Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 PerkinElmer Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Francine and I am your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] We’d now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Mr.
Dave Francisco Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may proceed.
Thank you Francine.
Good afternoon and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
With me on the call are Rob Friel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Wilson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
If you have not received a copy of our earnings press release you may get one from the Investors Section of our website at www.perkinelmer.com or from our toll-free investor hotline at 1-877-PKI-NYSE.
Please note this call is being webcast live and will be archived on our website until May 19 2011.
Before we begin we need to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor statements we’ve outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings.
Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views only as of today.
We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements in the future even if our estimates change.
So you should not rely on any of today’s forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date after today.
During this call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available as an attachment to our earnings press release.
To the extent we use non-GAAP financial measures during this call that are not reconciled to GAAP in that attachment we will provide reconciliations promptly.
I'm now pleased to introduce the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PerkinElmer Rob Friel.
Thanks Dave.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
I'm pleased to report that PerkinElmer had a very successful start to the year as we delivered excellent financial results while continuing to fund strategic investments supporting our longer term growth initiatives.
Looking at the first quarter we generated very strong growth in revenue and adjusted earnings per share exceeding both our top and bottom line guidance that we shared with you in February.
Reported revenue it was up 14%.
Organic revenue grew 10%.
Adjusted operating profit margins expanded 160 basis points and adjusted earnings per share grew 36%.
Andy will provide the specific details on our financial performance.
However in summary the growth we experienced in the first quarter was attributable to improving end markets; growth from new products; continued strength in emerging territories; and our efforts to focus the company on fewer more attractive market segments and applications.
Furthermore the emphasis we are placing on expanding our operating margins was apparent in the quarter as we experienced very good flow-through from the incremental revenue despite headwinds from an unfavorable mix.
The 160 basis points increase over first quarter of last year reinforces our belief that we can achieve adjusted operating profit margins in the high teens by 2014.
Just as important as a strong financial performance in the quarter we also made very good progress on increasing the growth profile of the company through internal investments as well as external collaborations and acquisitions.
In the first quarter we continued to expand our capabilities within selected geographies and applications.
This is allowing us to capitalize on increasingly stringent environmental regulations and the growing demand for greater access to health care in emerging territories particularly related to newborn maternal health and infectious disease.
During the quarter we funded a series of investments targeted at providing our customers with better tools to advance human and environmental health.
In particular several of our new product innovations provide customers with multiple modes of operation within one instrument creating a more efficient lab environment.
Three of these multimode innovations are the label-free EnSpire Plate Reader which helps scientists to enable discovery of potential new therapeutic targets; the Spectrum Two infrared analyzer which provides better near and midrange infrared capabilities for characterizing chemical and biological materials; and the NexION ICP-MS system which advances trace element analysis through 3 modes of operation for better food and water analysis.
I'm also pleased with our ability to leverage adjacencies in the diagnostics and therapeutic markets with new applications such as OncoChip a new microarray technology to aid in faster earlier and more accurate diagnosis of hematological malignancies.
Additionally we expanded our Cord Blood Banking business to include umbilical cord tissue banking services which will help to provide patients more options in new cell therapies.
And finally we introduced our new epigenetics-based detection reagents which help to accelerate drug discovery research for novel therapeutic strategies for diseases such as cancer diabetes and Alzheimer's.
In the first quarter we also made a number of strategic acquisitions that increase our ability to address our customers' growing needs.
While each of the acquired businesses brings us unique capabilities the acquisitions are targeted on 2 critical areas.
The first area is the need for better tools to interpret and manage the vast amounts of data that laboratories generate every day.
Through the CambridgeSoft and ArtusLabs acquisitions we will have the capability of providing a robust informatics platform that will enable customers to maximize their laboratory efficiency and harness critical information and insights.
In addition we can provide our customers with the ability to rapidly access and share enterprise-wide data for faster more informed scientific decisions.
The second area of increased investment was in the area of DNA analysis with the intention of complementing our current capabilities in protein-based analysis.
Increasingly our customers want to perform experiments that look at both proteins and genes.
Therefore we are selectively adding to our existing competencies as we did with our purchase of Signature Genomics in 2010.
This year we have broadened our DNA analysis footprint in sample prep bioinformatics and DNA sequencing.
We accomplished this through the purchase of chemagen which provides a complete solution to nucleic acids sample preparation; the acquisition of Geospiza announced earlier today which is a bioinformatics software company focused on sequencing; and the launch of our Next Generation Sequencing Service.
As a result of these acquisitions and repurchasing 7 million shares in the open market over the last 2 quarters we have reinvested approximately 90% of the divestiture proceeds from the sale of the Illumination and Detection Solutions business.
I am pleased that we have redeployed the capital in a way that should allow us to achieve the high end of our original guidance of $0.07 to $0.11 accretion while increasing our recurring revenues and significantly expanding our scale and critical growth drivers for the company.
In closing I believe that we're off to a strong start as the organization is executing well against our operating priorities as well as continuing to invest for long-term profitable growth.
As a result we have decided to raise our adjusted EPS guidance for the year to $1.62 through $1.67 with the midpoint representing a 24% increase over 2010.
I will now hand the call over to Andy who will discuss our end market and financial performance in greater detail.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon everyone.
I'll now provide some additional details on our first quarter results.
And following my prepared remarks we'll open it up for questions.
Before moving into the financial details I'd like to clarify that whenever I talk about a particular measure being up or down I'm referring to an increase or decrease in that measure during the first quarter of 2011 compared to the first quarter of 2010.
As Rob just discussed we had another strong quarter of revenue and adjusted earnings growth.
Revenue for the first quarter increased by 14% and organic revenue increased by 10% as compared to the same period last year.
By segment organic revenue increased by 2% in Human Health and 17% in Environmental Health.
Recurring revenue which includes reagents consumables and services represented approximately 56% of total revenue in the quarter with organic revenue growing at a mid-single digit rate.
Instruments and components represented approximately 44% of total revenue in the first quarter with organic revenue growing in the high teens.
We experienced strong organic revenue growth across all major geographies with the Americas and Europe growing at high-single digit rates and Asia growing high teens.
Additionally as Rob mentioned our focus on emerging markets continues to gain traction with almost a quarter of our total revenue now coming from these key regions and growing at a double digit rate in the quarter.
From an end-market perspective PerkinElmer's Human Health segment represented approximately 45% of total revenue in the quarter.
Within this segment we serve 2 end markets: diagnostics which represented 27% of total revenue; and research which represented 18% of total revenue.
Organic revenue from our Diagnostics business grew at a mid-single digit rate in the first quarter with contributions from our Screening business more than offsetting a modest decline in our Medical Imaging business as it cycled up against very difficult prior year comparisons.
In our Screening business we experienced growth across all major geographies.
Within the U.S.
growth was primarily due to the timing of certain shipments in the quarter as birth rates in the U.S.
continued to decline at a low-single digit rate.
Outside of the U.S.
we continued to benefit from an increasing adoption rate for our neonatal and infectious disease screening offerings particularly in emerging markets.
Organic revenue in our Medical Imaging business declined at a low-single digit rate in the quarter.
Robust demand in adjacent markets including industrial and veterinary were offset by declines in the base business a result of very difficult comparables in the prior year.
The success we achieved in adding new OEM customers in adjacent markets has helped reduce the cyclicality of the business due to diversification of our customer base for this key imaging technology.
Organic revenue in our Research business declined at a low-single digit rate in the first quarter as we experienced continued healthy demand in the academic sector as early stage therapeutic researchers continue their efforts to optimize screening efficiencies in the lab.
In particular we saw strong demand for our Operetta cellular imaging systems and EnSpire Multimode Plate Readers both of which have targeted features and price points aligned with the needs of our academic customers.
These technologies coupled with our automated sample preparation systems provide a compelling high throughput solution for this key customer segment.
Offsetting growth in the academic sector was a decline in organic revenue within large pharma.
This decline was primarily related to a larger-than-anticipated contraction in our legacy radioisotope portfolio.
However we were encouraged by growth in both non-rad reagents and instruments supporting our high-throughput screening offering.
We expect positive growth in the reagent segment for the full year and believe we are well positioned to benefit from the geographic shift of research to Asia global investments targeting preclinical research as well as what we believe are improving trends in the pharmaceutical segment.
Now let's turn to Environmental Health which represented 55% of our total revenues in the first quarter.
Within Environmental Health we serve 3 markets: laboratory services which represented 24% of total revenue; environmental and safety which represented 21%; and industrial which represented 10% of total revenue.
Organic revenue in our lab services business grew low-double digits in the first quarter as our OneSource business once again posted strong top line growth as this unique comprehensive service offering continues to expand globally.
Organic revenue in our environmental and safety markets grew over 20% in the first quarter as increased environmental and food safety regulations continued to drive strong demand for our analytical technologies.
During the quarter we saw strength in our inorganic analysis solutions used for detecting trace metal contaminants in food and environmental applications.
Revenues from our NexION 300 ICP-MS more than doubled versus the first quarter of 2010 as this highly efficient multimode instrument continues to gain share in these markets.
Additionally our gas chromatography offering grew low-double digit in the period driven by ongoing concerns around food additives and adulterants as well as pesticide contaminants in both food and water.
Finally organic revenue in our industrial market grew over 20% in the first quarter.
We are seeing strong demand in industrial applications due in part to the cyclical recovery and the timing of demand fulfillment.
We also experienced significant growth in our GC Engineered Solutions and our new Spectrum Two infrared instrument used in chemical and petrochemical applications.
Looking at our overall financial performance adjusted operating margins expanded 160 basis points in the first quarter to 13.2%.
In the quarter we benefited from healthy incremental flow-through on strong sales a result of productivity improvement and the benefit of prior year restructuring actions partially offset by unfavorable product mix and growth investments executed in the period.
In our Human Health segment adjusted operating margins were 17.9% representing an increase of 40 basis points as compared to the same period a year ago.
Productivity gains in Human Health were partially offset by acquisition integration-related costs and growth investments.
In our Environmental Health segment adjusted operating margins were 13.6% representing an increase of 240 basis points as compared to the first quarter of 2010.
Within the segment we experienced healthy volume leverage a favorable product mix as well as solid productivity gains including the realization of the expected benefits related to the SCIEX integration.
GAAP operating profit was $39.3 million in the first quarter of 2011 versus $30.6 million in the first quarter of 2010.
For the first quarter we had a GAAP tax rate of 22.9%.
And on a non-GAAP basis our adjusted tax rate was 26.9% which is consistent with our guidance communicated in February.
GAAP EPS from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2011 was $0.22 compared to $0.17 in the first quarter of 2010 while our adjusted EPS was $0.34 in the first quarter of 2011 up 36% from the prior year.
Our weighted average diluted share count for the first quarter of 2011 was approximately 115.1 million shares.
Turning to the balance sheet we finished the first quarter with approximately $100 million of net debt which we define as short- and long-term debt minus cash.
This reflects an increase in net debt of approximately $94 million as compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 due primarily to open market repurchases of 4 million shares and payment for acquisitions completed during the period.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $416 million of cash.
Looking at our cash flow performance for the quarter operating cash flow from continuing operations was $47.3 million as compared to $51.2 million in the first quarter of 2010.
This modest year-over-year decline in the quarter was primarily the result of an unfavorable tax impact associated with the sale of IDS.
Excluding this impact adjusted operating cash flow increased 7% in the period.
In summary we're pleased with our financial performance for the quarter as we continue to drive strong revenue and adjusted earnings growth.
Now I'd like to discuss our second quarter and full year 2011 guidance.
Consistent with our views expressed earlier in the year we expect business conditions for the remainder of 2011 to remain solid.
We're forecasting a similar demand profile in environmental food safety testing lab services and academic research but we expect growth rates to moderate due to more challenging comparables for the balance of the year.
Additionally we expect our Screening business to generate more normalized growth rates in the back half of the year as birthrates in the U.S.
begin to recover.
Accordingly we're forecasting organic revenue to grow in the mid-single digit range for the full year as well as for the second quarter.
Regarding adjusted operating margins we now expect expansion to be at the high end of our range of our stated objectives of 75 to 100 basis points for all of 2011.
This expansion will be driven primarily by volume leverage and continued traction on our multiyear productivity initiatives offset by growth investments to ensure the sustainability of our long-term financial performance.
Additionally due to the timing of revenue recognition of existing CambridgeSoft contracts we expect the majority of its full year profits to be realized in the fourth quarter.
As Rob mentioned we have redeployed approximately 90% of the proceeds from the divestiture of the Illumination and Detection Solutions business to highly productive assets.
We’ll continue to look for opportunities to deploy capital in accordance with our strategy but are no longer required to do so to achieve our full year guidance.
Bringing these factors together we estimate our full year adjusted earnings per share for 2011 to increase from the previously communicated range of $1.56 to $1.64 to a new range of $1.62 to $1.67 representing growth of 22% to 26% over the prior year.
Additionally we expect adjusted earnings per share for the second quarter to be in the range of $0.38 to $0.40 representing growth of 15% to 21% as compared to the second quarter of 2010.
This concludes my prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call back over to Dave.
Thanks Andy.
Operator at this time I think we'd like to open the call to questions please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Quintin Lai from Robert W.
Baird.
A couple of questions here.
So first housekeeping-wise.
The guidance that you gave is that now inclusive of these acquisitions that you just made? It is.
And when I was looking through the press release you didn't talk really about the financial impact.
I assume that revenue’s not a big deal.
But earnings-wise was there like a -- is there any kind of modest dilution relative to that? Well if you look at the acquisitions in total we anticipate they're going to generate about $0.05 of EPS for the year and that our buybacks are going to be about 5% as well.
I think there will be some upfront costs associated with the acquisitions.
But I don't see any significant dilution as a result of these.
And then with respect to kind of your comments on the pharma side you kind of mentioned that you expect the consumable business to pick up.
Is that a trend that you've been seeing maybe now that the first quarter is over and we're into the second quarter? Or can you maybe give a little color on what you're expecting as the pacing goes through the year? Yes.
I would say in the first quarter Quin what we saw was some growth on the screening side [indiscernible].
We saw it both on the academic side as well as the pharma which was great to see because as you know for most of 2010 there was a lot of investment going into screen.
So it was nice to see.
We saw strength both on the plate readers as well as on the reagent side.
Andy mentioned the fact that however offsetting that was the fact that our rad business contracted a little bit more than what we've seen historically.
And we think that’s somewhat timing-related but we'll just have to wait and see how that pans out for the rest of the year.
So I would say when I think about the research market we're starting to see some recovery on the screening side in pharma and both academics.
So that's the good news.
The offset to that is we are seeing pressure on the radioactive side of our business.
But as Andy said we are expecting the research business to be positive for the year probably low- to mid-single digits.
All right and the last question from me and I'll jump back Andy the guidance for the year did you give an updated expectation for share count for the full year? We did not.
It's going to be about 114 million shares.
Our next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro from Goldman Sachs.
First one on just sort of acquisitions.
Could you maybe give us what you assume the total revenue contribution will be in dollar terms from acquisitions for the year? Yes it's about $75 million all in.
Got it.
And then in terms of -- just looking at all the activity you guys have had in acquisitions here total mix of business that you would characterize as software and/or service I think it was historically about 30%.
Where is that going to be as you exit the year? And then over time should we assume that incremental M&amp;A could kind of take the company more into that direction? Well so as Andy mentioned the acquisitions which basically -- what we've done so far is largely in either the service software side or consumables.
So the majority of that.
So $75 million -- so figure that's almost 4% of our revenue.
And so that would be the increase relative to what we had last year.
Right and if we just think longer-term is there maybe a more concerted strategy to have a very comprehensive software offering and informatics offering? It looks like you guys have bought some interesting assets here and just curious about your thoughts on what...
Yes I think that's right.
I think we've said for some time that we obviously want to drive to a more recurring side of revenue.
We've sort of increased over the last couple of years from 50% to 60%.
Now we'll be pushing through to 65%.
But we see informatics as a real opportunity.
And I would say there's a couple of drivers to that.
First of all clearly the consolidation that's going on is requiring our customers to have better connection between the scientific efforts whether it’s the outsourcing of R&amp;D the CROs that are requiring the ability to share information seamlessly whether it's a focus on productivity or whether it's just a fact that the instrumentations are continuing to generate more and more information.
And there's a real need to be able to search analyze store and share that information.
So we think consistent with what we've done with our service offering there's a huge opportunity to help our customers sort through this need to have a much better informatics platform.
And so we did CambridgeSoft.
Let's think about it sort of a backbone brings in a very strong electronic notebook.
ArtusLabs brings us some fairly good capability around imaging.
They've got some -- particularly technology around optical structure recognition.
And then of course Geospiza brings us cloud computing and some real good capabilities around sequencing which is complementary to our Sequencing Service.
Got it that's very helpful.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Lawson from Mizuho Securities.
I just wondered if you x out that radiochemical business did the pharma business decline? Or was it flat? Well if you x out the rad business our non-rad business grew sort of mid-single digits and that would be a combination of pharma and academic.
So the non-rad piece of the portfolio was actually like I said up I think it was 5% or 6%.
And then but just if you parse out the pharma side of things how did that fit? I would say that pharma still grows.
But again because we're looking at it a little differently we don't really separate the end markets from rad and non-rad.
I would say pharma so far we grew a little bit.
But overall it was about mid-single digits.
And then the acquisition announced today the Geospiza could you walk through the synergies that will have with the Next Generation business? And were the products we sold standalone or are they going to kind of rolled into the current...
Well we've actually been partnering with Geospiza since we started our Sequencing business.
So we know the business well.
And I would say it’s synergistics in sort of 2 areas.
It’s synergistics in sort of the early part of the sample and process tracking.
And then it’s synergistics on the analysis side.
And like I said we've been working with them since we started it.
So as you think about it they provide the synergies in the upfront side.
Then of course the sample prep and automation is going to be chemagen and some of our other products whether it's the JANUS Automated Workstations or the EnSpire Plate Readers.
Then we'll use some other products to do XON capturing and sequencing and then of course we'll use the Geospiza software for the analysis.
And our next question comes from the line of Dan Leonard from Leerink Swann.
I’ll start with a housekeeping question.
What was the share count at the end of the quarter? 115.
That was average during the quarter right? Not that -- it isn't how you ended the quarter I would assume.
That's correct.
Okay on the scientific software market could you walk me through how you're viewing that market in terms of the size of the overall opportunity? The growth rate of that market? The competitive environment? Yes so I would say the scientific -- if you look at -- you've got to separate it into a couple of different pieces.
But I would say if you look at the EON market CambridgeSoft was probably the third largest provider in that market.
So I think we picked up a very nice position there relative to electronic notebook.
And then I said that the approach there is to sort of add in to that imaging capability and then ultimately I think that's got to be put on a cloud application.
I think that's one of the true benefits of Geospiza.
I would say growth wise it's probably been growing in the sort of low double digits.
And that would be our expectation going forward.
Okay and then finally can you talk to your plans to integrate these different software businesses? Would you expect that you will integrate them and they're going to operate as one team? Or are they going to stand as separate entities? Well I would say initially the ArtusLabs and the CambridgeSoft will be integrated because I think there's some real synergies between those 2.
Probably Geospiza initially will be – as I've sort of alluded to before will be more focused on the DNA Sequencing business.
And then of course over time we'll look at a software strategy across PerkinElmer.
The other thing to point out is PerkinElmer has a number of informatics products today.
So whether it's on the cellular imaging side or whether it's in the lab information management systems within our analytical sciences business.
So we're looking across all of our capabilities in PerkinElmer.
And we'll ultimately probably have an integrated software business.
But I would say that's down the road.
And we also have a question from the line of Jon Groberg from Macquarie.
Just a quick question what percent of your Environmental Health revenues are from emerging markets? So emerging markets for the company is about 25%.
So I don't know.
Andy you know what it is for emerging? No.
I can -- I'll find it and get that...
I would say it's probably higher than that because it's higher on the Environmental side than it is on the Human Health side.
Yes I was going to say around 30%.
But I'll confirm that.
Okay and then Rob obviously you've made some small acquisitions here.
It was rumored that you were in the market for potentially a larger more transformative acquisition.
I guess what’s your appetite for larger M&amp;A at this point? I would say our strategy has been for the last couple of years to do more tuck-ins.
And I would say that's going to be the sort of majority of the strategy going forward.
I mentioned in the past it may be a little bigger than what we've done historically.
I think if you look the average deal that we've done in the past couple of years has probably been sort of more in the $50 million range.
I'd like to do a little bigger than that.
CambridgeSoft as you know was sort of in the $200 million range.
So I'd like to do bigger deals but unlikely we’d do something very large.
Okay and then last question for me on Geospiza just so I'm clear.
It looks like -- I think with the previous acquisitions you said about $0.04 accretion? So is this maybe at $0.01? Is the way to look at it? And then could you maybe just give us some details it's not that long ago since you launched the target -- or launched the Sequencing service.
Kind of what demand you're seeing to date? How big is it kind of what your expectations are for that business? So I would say I think the $0.04 that you recall was really when we talked about the CambridgeSoft and ArtusLabs.
Actually the Geospiza has sort of minimal impact on our EPS.
The other $0.01 is largely coming from chemagen.
So I think when you look at all the acquisitions together it's about a $0.05.
And then as Andy said probably about $0.05 from our share buyback.
The DNA Sequencing business I would describe as sort of early days.
I think we're getting some good traction with our customers.
I think it could be an exciting opportunity from a market perspective.
But like I said it's sort of early days for us.
And I would say through the first quarter it's still less than $1 million of revenue.
But I would say we see it as an exciting opportunity but I don't think it's going to be meaningful from a financial perspective for some time.
Would you mind just one other quick question on that? Do you find that your customers are coming in and just saying "This is what we'd like to do you do it anyway you want." Or do your customers -- are they more specific in terms of "We'd like you to use X technology to run this particular project for us." They are not being specific to technology.
They're not? Okay thanks.
We have a question from the line of Paul Knight from CLSA.
Where are you with the integration of Signature Labs SYM-BIO and all the diagnostic businesses? I mean are you halfway there? Three quarters of the way there? So I would say -- SYM-BIO I would say is fairly well integrated within PerkinElmer.
And so I would say we're almost all the way there on SYM-BIO.
I would say Signature we're more than halfway there.
But we're still sort of working through some integration plans there.
But I would say SYM-BIO close to 100%.
SYM-BIO probably north of 50% -- I mean Signature north of 50%.
And this high teens operating margin that is by 2014 or in 2014? It's by 2014.
And as I look at Human Health and Environmental Health would both businesses rise about the same? Or is one going to go up more than the other? Well the challenge we've given each of the businesses is productivity improvement.
It's fairly homogeneous across the segments.
But I think ultimately you're going to see Human Health with margins with a 2 in front of it and Environmental Health with kind of more of a mid teens.
So you kind of blend it in the high teens.
But I think the targets we set for the 2 groups and the opportunities we see within the 2 segments are fairly fairly similar.
Okay.
[Operator Instructions] We have a question from the line of Jon Wood from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Should we anticipate M&amp;A activity moderates through the balance of the year following the recent transactions? And then Andy it looks like the 114 million share count guidance contemplates incremental share repurchases over the coming quarters.
Is that accurate? No it does not.
I would say I think we'll continue to look for bolt-on acquisitions.
I think we've got a strong balance sheet and we can continue to do a couple of hundred million if we saw the appropriate targets.
So I don't know that I would say it necessarily moderates.
It will be more dependent on seeing the opportunities and obviously transactions that make sense from a financial and strategic perspective.
Inc.</strong> And Andy any chance you could give us the aggregate value of the acquisitions completed in the second quarter for the purposes of our cash flow forecast? Sure.
Of the 4 acquisitions it's approximately $260 million.
We have a question from the line of Ross Muken from Deutsche Bank.
This is Vijay in for Ross.
I just had one question.
You sort of mentioned strength in ICP-MS and GC.
Could you sort of talk about comparative dynamics out there? Do you feel like you're gaining share in those markets and what you're seeing? So I think this strength is really coming from 2 aspects.
One is obviously the markets are very strong because of the concern about some of the regulatory issues out there.
I think the other thing is we've introduced some new products recently that are getting very good traction in the market.
So I think it's a combination of the strong market and the new products.
And I suspect we're executing quite well.
We have a follow-up question from the line of Paul Knight from CLSA.
Andy what was the top line guidance for Q2? Mid-single digit.
And that's also the guidance for the year.
And that would be total.
What kind of range on absolute revenue level? The absolute dollars? Yes.
I don't have that off the top of my head.
Dave do you have it? That's okay thanks.
We have a question from the line -- actually a follow-up question from Isaac Ro from Goldman Sachs.
One housekeeping item on FX for the balance of the year.
Top line bottom line impact are you guys able to share a view there? Yes.
The balance of the year we think it’s going to be a tailwind of about 4% but de minimus on the bottom line just given our mix.
Okay and then one other one just sort of longer-term Andy as we look at the operating margin guidance you've given.
You guys have obviously acquired some higher growth businesses.
How much of that target is sort of contingent on continued acceleration on the top line versus the more significant operating improvement you guys have in the works? Well I think what we’ve communicated is for us to hit our high teens operating margin by 2014 requires us to generate about 5% organic growth going forward and the balance of that being productivity improvement.
So obviously if we do better than that hopefully we'll get there faster.
But we may reinvest as you know.
If we do worse we'll probably have to do some more heavy lifting.
But that's the mix right now.
And we have no further questions in the queue.
I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rob Friel for closing remarks.
Great.
So thank you for your questions.
As we move into the second quarter our priorities will remain focused on growth and employing a decade-approach to improving our operating margins while investing in new technologies software and services that advance Human and Environmental Health.
During our next earnings call I look forward to discussing our second quarter performance and how we're progressing against our priorities.
Thank you for your participation today call and continued interest in PerkinElmer.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 PerkinElmer Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kathy and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today's call Mr.
David Francisco Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and welcome to the PerkinElmer Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
With me on the call are Rob Friel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Wilson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
If you have not received a copy of our earnings press release you may get one from the Investors Section of our website at perkinelmer.com or from our toll-free investor hotline at 1-877-PKI-NYSE.
Please note this call is being webcast live and will be archived on our website until August 18 2011.
Before we begin we need to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor statements that we’ve outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings.
Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views only as of today.
We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements in the future even if our estimates change.
So you should not rely on any of today's forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date after today.
During this call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available as an attachment to our earnings press release.
To the extent that we use non-GAAP financial measures during this call that are not reconciled to GAAP in that attachment we will provide reconciliations promptly.
I am now pleased to introduce the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PerkinElmer Rob Friel.
Thanks Dave.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us.
I'm pleased to report another very good quarter for PerkinElmer.
From a financial perspective we continued to deliver strong results exceeding our guidance on both the top and bottom line.
Revenue grew 14% our fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth.
And adjusted EPS grew 27%.
We're particularly pleased with the growth year-over-year as we had some difficult comparisons given the very strong quarter we had in Q2 last year.
In addition to the strong financial results in the second quarter we continued to expand the capabilities of the company and invest to improve our growth profile through acquisitions as well as internal investments in R&amp;D.
In the second quarter we further expanded our presence in emerging markets such as China the Middle East and Africa with targeted applications.
In particular we made good progress with the launch of our new high-sensitivity kits for hepatitis and sexually transmitted diseases in China and experienced strong demand in the Middle East to meet the rising need for better newborn screening capabilities including a large installation in Saudi Arabia which follows our major installation in Cairo earlier this year.
In addition we obtained our first sickle cell anemia screening orders in Africa a region with high-incidence levels to provide earlier diagnosis for management of this disease.
We also launched a series of innovations within our market-leading inorganic analysis portfolio targeted at helping customers ensure safer order food and pharmaceuticals.
The label-free EnSpire plate reader which we introduced last quarter continues to experience strong receptivity as scientists look to improve the discovery of potential new therapeutic targets.
Our OneSource Laboratory Service business continues to experience good growth and is gaining traction expanding outside of its traditional pharmaceutical base evidenced by the recent addition of a significant new account in environmental testing.
During the quarter we were able to further expand PerkinElmer's current Medical Imaging portfolio with the acquisition of Dexela providing customers with high-speed high-resolution CMOS technology.
This technology is complementary to our amorphous silicon-based technology in key areas such as surgery dental cardiology and mammography.
And as the only provider of both amorphous silicon and CMOS capabilities we can now provide the technology that best fits our customers' specific applications.
As I mentioned last quarter the growing challenge for customers is managing and interpreting large amounts of data.
A key area of focus for us is helping customers overcome these data challenges by providing enterprise-wide knowledge solutions.
During the second quarter we continued to expand our capabilities in the area of informatics with the addition of Labtronics which uniquely positions us to deploying Electronic Laboratory Notebook solution across our global customers' entire value chain from research to manufacturing.
Combined with our service and instrument capabilities we are increasing our ability to closely collaborate and partner with our customers across a broad set of laboratory note needs in order to generate higher-value solutions.
Before I turn the call over to Andy who will discuss our financial results in more detail I wanted to give you a perspective on what we are experiencing in our end markets in the second quarter and the environment we are basing our second our forecast on.
Starting first with the Environmental Health end markets we again experienced broad-based growth during the second quarter driven by continued focus on food safety and investments in environmental testing particularly in developing countries.
In addition the materials and chemical markets were strong.
As we look to the second half of 2011 the recently released macroeconomic statistics are concerning and suggest we may continue to experience uneven economic growth.
However we believe that the environmental and food safety end markets will continue to grow despite the challenging economic conditions due to the high priority being placed on these critical needs particularly in emerging markets.
In addition given the recently introduced new products and strong traction in service we expect our demand profile to remain similar to the first half.
But organic growth could moderate a bit due to more difficult comparisons resulting in mid-single digit organic growth.
In Human Health the businesses are much less impacted by overall GDP growth and more tied to specific factors like birth rates and pharma R&amp;D spending.
During the first half of this year birth rates in the U.S.
continued to decline slightly putting pressure on our Screening business.
Medical Imaging experienced good growth on both Diagnostics and our newer applications.
Our Research business grew in the second quarter largely from new products introduced and good traction in academia where we have historically been underrepresented.
For the second half we expect growth to gradually improve in Diagnostics as U.S.
birth rates stabilize and we continue to expand programs outside the U.S.
Within our Medical Imaging business we expect growth from newer applications in markets to offset the impact of more modest growth in our traditional diagnostic applications which are cycling up against difficult comparables in the prior year.
Lastly in our Research business we believe our organic growth will be in the mid-single digits as we continue to migrate our portfolio to higher growth areas and benefit from the increasing expenditures in emerging territories.
Accordingly we are forecasting for organic revenue growth to be in the mid-single-digit range for the second half as well as the third quarter and expect growth to be more consistent across our Human and Environmental Health segments as we progress through the back half.
While we are maintaining a cautious outlook regarding the global economic recovery and the corresponding impact to our served markets we remain confident in our ability to grow the top line and continue to drive operator margin improvement.
As a result we are raising our estimate for full-year adjusted earnings per share for 2011 to the range of $1.64 to $1.68 representing growth of 23% to 26% over the prior year.
Additionally we expect adjusted earnings per share for the third quarter to be in the range of $0.37 to $0.39 representing growth of 19% to 26% as compared to the third quarter of 2010.
Let me now turn the call over to Andy who will discuss our end market and financial performance in greater detail.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon everyone.
I'll now provide some additional details on our second quarter results.
And following our prepared remarks we'll open it up for questions.
Before moving into the financial details I'd like to clarify that whenever I talk about a particular measure being up or down I'm referring to an increase or decrease that's measured in the second quarter of 2011 compared to the second quarter of 2010.
As Rob just discussed we were pleased to deliver another strong quarter of revenue and adjusted EPS growth particularly considering the difficult comparisons from the second quarter of 2010.
Revenue for the second quarter increased by 14% and organic revenue increased by 6% as compared to the same period last year.
By segment organic revenue increased by 2% and 9% in Human Health and Environmental Health segments respectively.
All major geographies contributed to our organic revenue growth with the Americas and Europe growing at a low single-digit rate and Asia growing high teens.
We also continue to successfully leverage our investments in emerging markets enabling us to generate another strong quarter of double-digit growth in these key regions.
From an end-market perspective PerkinElmer's Human Health segment represented 46% of total revenue in the quarter.
Within Human Health we served 2 end markets: Diagnostics which represented 28% of total revenue; and research representing 18% of total revenue.
Organic revenue from our Diagnostics business grew at a low single-digit rate in the second quarter with solid growth generated from our Medical Imaging business offset by a modest decline in our Screening business.
Organic revenue in our Medical Imaging business grew at a high single-digit rate in the quarter despite cycling up against the difficult comparison from the prior year.
Solid demand generated from our base medical diagnostics offering coupled with our continued momentum from industrial and veterinary applications drove our performance in the period.
Additionally as Rob mentioned the acquisition of Dexela brings complementary imaging technology to further expand our addressable market and diversifies our customer base.
In our Screening business demand remained strong within the emerging territories including China India and South America as we further broadened our penetration into these key regions with our neonatal and infectious disease screening solutions.
This growth was offset by revenue softness within North America driven primarily by the continued impact of declines in U.S.
birth rates and the favorable timing of certain instrument replacements in the first quarter.
Organic revenue for our Screening business grew in the low-single digits for the first half of 2011 consistent with our expectations.
Organic revenue in our Research business grew at a mid-single-digit rate in the second quarter as we continued to experience strong demand from the academic sector across a broad set of technologies within our research portfolio.
We saw a good growth for our Operetta cellular imaging systems JANUS Automation tools as well as our EnVision and EnSpire multimode plate readers.
This broad-based demands illustrate the increasing value that we were able to bring to our academic customers with our highly efficient and integrated instruments as well as reagents to help them solve their most critical research needs.
We are encouraged by some early indicators of positive trends in the pharmaceutical sector.
Specifically we're experiencing strong growth in Asia as we capture demand from internal pharmaceutical research migrating to lower-cost regions or being outsourced to CROs.
Additionally we're seeing the initial benefits from our customers' investments in preclinical research with solid demand for our in vivo imaging technology to better understand the disease mechanisms and therapeutic responses.
We expect these trends to persist providing opportunity to offset ongoing challenges in our legacy product offerings particularly our radioactive chemical [ph] portfolio.
Let's turn now to Environmental Health which represented 54% of our total revenue in the second quarter.
Within Environmental Health we served 3 end markets: Laboratory services which represented 25% of total revenue; environmental and safety which represented 20% of total revenue; and industrial which represented 9% of total revenue.
Organic revenue in our Life Services business grew in the low single-digit range in the second quarter.
Within service our OneSource business posted strong top line growth but moderate from prior quarters as we cycled up against the large contract win from the second quarter of 2010.
Organic revenue in environmental and safety markets grew mid-teens in the second quarter as investments in critical environmental and food safety applications drove strong demand for our analytical instrumentation.
As Rob mentioned we have a full suite of new products across our inorganic analysis portfolio to detect trace metal contaminants such as lead cadmium arsenic and mercury primarily in water soil and food.
The lost of the Pinnacle AA the Optima ICP 800 and the NexION ICP-MS further expanded our leadership position in these key technologies with highly efficient easy-to-use instrumentation for detecting some of the most widespread contaminants globally.
Lastly organic growth in our industrial markets grew to low-double digits in the second quarter.
The strong demand from the Industrial segment continues to be mostly related to the characterization of materials chemical processing and imaging -- or energy applications supported by our molecular spectroscopy and chromatography platforms.
Looking at our financial performance adjusted operating profit margins expanded 80 basis points in the second quarter to 14.1%.
In the quarter we benefited from solid incremental flow-through on higher sales strong gains on productivity initiatives as well as a minor benefit from the flow-through from foreign exchange given the significant fluctuation year-over-year.
For the first half of 2011 adjusted operating profit margins expanded 120 basis points as compared to the first half of 2010.
In our Human Health segment adjusted operating profit margins for the quarter were 19.8% representing a decrease of 70 basis points as compared to the same period a year ago.
Productivity gains in Human Health were offset by unfavorable product mix due to a high percentage of instrument placements as well as growth investments deployed in the quarter.
In our Environmental Health segment adjusted operating profit margins were 13.4% representing an increase of 240 basis points as compared to the second quarter of 2010.
Within this segment we experienced healthy volume leverage the benefit of new products and solid productivity gains.
GAAP operating income from continuing operations was $37.5 million in the second quarter of 2011 versus the $33.2 million in the second quarter 2010.
For the second quarter we had a GAAP tax rate of 16%.
And in on a non-GAAP basis our just adjusted tax rate was 25% which is favorable to our guidance communicated in April.
This favorability is due primarily to a favorable distribution of income in the period.
And for the full year we expect the adjusted tax rate to be approximately 26%.
GAAP EPS from continuing operations in the second quarter of 2011 was $0.25 compared to $0.40 in the second quarter of 2010.
And in the second quarter of 2010 as a reminder other income included a pretax gain of $25.6 million or $0.21 per share related to the purchase of the remaining interest in the SCIEX joint venture.
Our adjusted EPS was $0.42 in the second quarter of 2011 up 27% from the prior year.
Our weighted average diluted share count for the second quarter of 2011 was 113.6 million shares and our ending share count was approximately 112.7 million.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We finished the second quarter with approximately $276 million of net debt which we defined as short- and long-term debt minus cash.
This reflects an increase in net debt of approximately $176 million as compared to the first quarter of 2011 resulting primarily from payments for acquisitions completed during the period.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $395 million of cash.
Looking at our cash flow performance in the quarter operating cash flow from continuing operations was $54.9 million as compared to $62.8 million in the second quarter of 2010.
For the first half of 2011 adjusted operating cash flow adjusted for the impact of -- the tax impacts associated with the sale of IDS was $110.8 million.
Free cash flow which we defined as adjusted operating cash flow less capital expenditures was $94.8 million representing 108% of adjusted income.
In summary we're pleased with our financial performance for the quarter as we continued to drive strong revenue and adjusted EPS growth.
Now like to discuss our third quarter and full-year 2011 guidance.
As Rob mentioned earlier we're maintaining our full-year forecast for organic revenue growth to be in the mid-single digit range and mid-single digits for the third quarter as well.
We expect adjusted operating profit margin expansion to be at the high end of the range of our annual objective of 75 to 100 basis points for 2011 driven predominately by volume leverage and our multiyear productivity initiatives.
Regarding full-year adjusted earnings per share for 2011 we are raising our estimates to the range of $1.64 to $1.68 representing growth at 23% to 26% over the prior year.
And regarding the third quarter we expect adjusted earnings per share to be in the $0.37 to $0.39 range representing growth of 19% to 26% as compared to the third quarter of 2010.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
I'd now like to turn the back over to Dave.
Thanks Andy.
Operator at this time we'd like to open up call for questions please.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Quintin Lai of Robert W.
Baird.
Rob you said 3 words that we haven't heard a lot this earnings season strong academic markets.
Others have seen little weakness.
You sound a little different.
I mean first could you remind us what your exposure is on the academic Rob and maybe U.S.
academic? And then why are you seeing the demand for the products that you are? Yes.
So academic exposure for us is probably less than 5%.
We talked about this in the past.
It's one of the reasons why -- when the stimulus spending a couple of years ago we didn't see a significant benefit from that.
So consequently we're less impacted.
As I sort of mentioned before I think historically we've been underrepresented in the academic area of research because a lot of our products were more tailored to pharma and biotech.
It was a strategy probably about 12 months ago that we started to adjust some of our product portfolio to do better in academic markets.
And so we're getting some of the benefit of that.
So I still think spending is probably flat to maybe up a little bit across academia.
I think we're just seeing a little bit of growth relative to as I said we're fairly up underrepresented in that area.
So I'm not suggesting that the market is growing much.
I think it's a question of we're probably doing a little bit better.
And then with respect to your kind of outlook on the Environmental Health.
Could you maybe talk a little bit about how spending was through the end of June and maybe through July? Because -- are you seeing signs of just tougher comps or maybe a little bit more of a slower growth outside of the...
I think you got to look at it region by region.
I think in Asia we continue to see good growth there.
I don't know that we're seeing much moderation particularly in the emerging areas.
I think Europe clearly has slowed.
For us Europe was as Andy mentioned was sort of low-single digits but we continue to see good strength in Asia.
I think while that was true across the entire company that's specifically on the environmental side.
But having said that there's continued demand within both the environmental and the food and consumer areas.
I mean you continue to see whether its regulations or EPA putting out the list of chemicals of concern or the China 5-year plan including directives and procedures targeting at reducing and monitoring water pollution the U.K.
government laying out specific air quality targets.
Of course you've got the U.S.
Food Safety Modernization Act.
So you continue to see a lot of focus and emphasis in this area.
And that's why I sort of said in my prepared remarks while clearly we think it's going to be a challenging economic environment particularly and I said sort of uneven growth I do think there is a high priority being placed on this area.
So we're still fairly optimistic that we'll continue to see growth in the broader environmental health arena because of the things I mentioned before.
Our next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro of Goldman Sachs.
Rob I know this is a very uncertain environment that we're in here but I'm wondering if you could maybe go back to the late '08 and '09 periods and provide some commentary if you compare that timeframe to now and how you think your outlook and visibility might be -- might be similar or different? I think it's certainly hard to call us with any specifics where we're going in the economy but thoughts on how do you see some parallels and differences would be helpful.
Yes.
So if you look at our performance sort of from '08 to '09 we were down sort of low-single digits from a top line perspective.
And of course back then we had IDS relating in Sensor business which is we call that -- it was a little bit more cyclical and more sensitive I would say the downturn in the economy.
And as I think about the portfolio of businesses now without IDS and of course a higher percentage of service and I would say the software businesses I think we will similar in what we were in '08 '09 continue to be very resilient even if we see a more difficult economic environment and even if we dip into another recession.
So I guess I feel pretty good about our position from a portfolio of the end markets we operate in as well as the position of PerkinElmer within those end markets.
So that's why even though it's a challenging macroeconomic environment we're still talking about mid-single growth and we're taking our guidance up.
And just one other item Andy on the numbers.
Could you maybe just walk us through how we should expect the impact of acquisitions relative to the numbers on revenue for the rest of the year just given some of the contracts you had lined up to there through 2011? Yes.
For all the acquisitions until we have said $35 million I think in the last time we talked and that's -- we're just under $20 million in the second quarter right about that in the third quarter and then the balance will be in the fourth quarter.
So we'll see somewhat of a linear ramp through the year.
And all through the full year released around $75 million.
And then on the profit side the majority of the profits will be recognized in the fourth quarter and that's primarily due to CambridgeSoft which we talked about last quarter.
And if I could squeeze in last one Rob.
You guys commented briefly on your new customers in the OneSource business.
Can you just put a little more color around what you meant by that? What I talked about was more specifically that we're seeing growth outside of our traditional base which is the pharmaceutical companies and I just spoke in particular a big contract that we got in the environmental testing area.
So while we do continue to get customers probably more important is we're broadening out the addressable market.
Our next question comes from the line of Jon Groberg of Macquarie.
So first question was on the Research business.
Andy you were probably trying to talk slower than normal but still talking pretty fast.
And I thought you said high single-digit growth in Research business but then I think afterwards I thought I heard something like mid-single digits.
So I don't know I had -- I was just trying to understand exactly if you could give a bit more detail on how the research markets overall grew for you guys? I appreciate the feedback.
I'll get slower each quarter but at mid-single digit is what I said in my prepared remarks for the Research business.
So okay for the second quarter? Second quarter yes.
And you said most of that was good growth in Asia right? And Europe and U.S.
and Research how are those? I know where I would think about Research.
It was driven by Asia and was also driven by academic as compared to pharma and biotech.
And if you split up? The Asia was I'm assuming was more pharma-oriented than academic and U.S.
is maybe more academic? Yes that's correct.
And Europe overall was kind of sluggish? Yes I think Europe was sort of flattish for us.
It was up slightly yes.
And then the second question Rob what are you doing and what plan I guess are you putting in place from an expense standpoint from a CapEx standpoint maybe what you're thinking about doing for the second half of the year just given the macro signs that you said you're starting to see and the markets is kind of telling us? But maybe the markets have been wrong before maybe things are going to get tougher.
So I was just curious what you yourselves are doing there? Well I think generally we're trying to be sort of prudent with how we expend whether it's expenses or capital.
But we continue to see growth in the mid-single digits.
So while I'll say we're being cautious with I would say significant investments we're continuing to spend money in R&amp;D and building out infrastructure particularly in the emerging markets.
So I think it will be prudent but I would say we're not at this point at the level we were is sort of late '08.
So you have no plans today to proactively stop some spending that you're previously going to do for the balance of the year? Yes I would say we haven't stopped anything right now that we planned in the second quarter.
And just a follow-up.
What would you -- would it be just kind of seeing your revenues fall off that would get you to kind of change that? Is that what you're looking for to actually starting to see some decline in terms of...
Probably orders and bookings if we saw -- and of course it's hard to characterize across the entire company because within various markets or with various businesses we may see some slowdown and therefore we'll be responsive to that.
But that's really up to the sort of individual business leaders to monitor that.
But I would say across the corporation we do not have any overall plans to curtail our expenditures or capital.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Arias of UBS.
Rob just sort of following up on the last question.
Is there any change in the way that you're viewing the use of cash or the preservation of cash just given the current level of macro uncertainty? No I think it's still consistent with what we've done historically which is we look at acquisitions and then we also look at buying our stock.
As I'm sure everybody is painfully aware our stocks are a lot cheaper today than it was 7 or 8 days ago.
So I think that's -- if there's a difference it's only that perspective is that probably buying back PerkinElmer stock is a lot more attractive than it is now than it was 2 weeks ago.
But I think we look at both and we look at the financial returns and consider the risk aspects of both of those investments.
And in fact if you look back 2 years I think the split is about 60% of the cash we generated through operations and asset sales was invested back in acquisitions and about 40% was return to shareholders through share buybacks.
And then can you just talk about the Signature Genomics business? I know there's been some publications that lay out best practices for labs doing postnatal testing.
Can you just talk about trends and market growth there with that business? I think Signature Genomics is a business where we invested into -- continue to expand our capabilities into the chromosomal analysis side.
I think we continue to see good progress on the OncoChip and getting that out into the marketplace.
I would say the area that's been somewhat difficult is the -- I would say the ramp up in the reimbursement of that product has probably gone a little slower than we would have originally anticipated.
And then just quickly Andy are we able to get a currency impact forecast for the full year? Well sure.
We were -- it was 6% tailwind in the second quarter.
We expected to be 4% in the third and probably around 3% in the fourth.
So hopefully that's what you need.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Lawson of Mizuho Securities.
Rob what's your total government spending exposure and which parts do you think would be insulated from any cuts? Well when we start talking about total government I guess we need to sort of separate that in a couple of categories.
I talked earlier about our exposure to academia which was really in the Research area.
And when you look at the U.S.
aspect to that we think that's something less than 5%.
When we started expanding it to all governments and you get into newborn screening which of course in most cases in the U.S.
the newborn screening testing is reimbursed by state governments.
And of course when you get into outside the U.S.
a lot of what we do in the screening area is paid ultimately by the government in the various countries.
So I guess if you're just talking about total governments across everything that we do it's probably 20% 25% of our revenue.
And then the other trend other than academia you seem to buck was the instrument placements strong instrument placements in Human Health? What industry was that in? And is there an annuity stream attached to that? Yes I mean historically that's been the case.
So while we are disappointed from a gross margin perspective because of the mix issue with insurance being a little lower and gross margins in the long term we think it bodes positive for the business because as you said a lot of the instruments we placed have a revenue stream associated with that.
Quite frankly the instrument growth that we saw was both in academia pharma biotech and on the diagnostics side as well.
So if you look within the Screening business we saw good placement of instruments and again hopefully that bodes well for the future as it usually does carry with a good annuity stream on the consumable and reagent side.
For the second half organic growth number if you -- is there anything in there where you're looking for an acceleration or improvement in particular end markets? I would say that one area that I would spike out and probably slight improvement on the Screening side as I mentioned before.
I think we are expected to see a little stabilization in birth rates.
And hopefully we continue to get good traction outside the U.S.
So I think we're expecting Screening to improve a little bit Research to sort of be consistent with what it was in the second quarter and probably a little moderation on the Environmental side.
And as I said before not necessarily because of demand characteristics but just because of comparisons year-over-year.
Our next question is from the line of Steve Willoughby [ph].
I guess first if you could remind us on your Screening business how that breaks down in terms of revenue per U.S.
versus o U.S.? And then on the assumption that Screening should return to more normalized rates is there any evidence you're seeing in the market today? I guess what's that based off of? So I would think of the Screening business probably 2/3 1/3 from the standpoint of U.S.
to outside the U.S.
And I would say we're seeing some early indication based on data that we track in the hospitals with regard to sort of deliveries that there may be some again modest improvement in stabilization in the back half.
And then just a question on the share buybacks.
How much do you have left remaining under your authorization? We have been 6 million shares remaining at this point.
Our next question comes from the line of Jon Wood.
Inc.</strong> So Andy on the -- just looking at your third quarter guidance and it looks like you're implying incremental margins a bit below which you had in the second quarter.
I guess tying this into what happened on the Human Health side you kind of talk about some growth investments in mix.
Can you just kind of talk us through the Human Health incrementals going into the back half of the year vis-à-vis the overall business? Well yes.
The growth investment side of it we're really referring mainly to our DNA business we talked about over the last couple of quarters and some of the expenditures around that.
I think the rest of the Human Health outside is really going to be impacted by mix.
I think the overall margins we expect to return to positive in the second half for is Human Health primarily because we do think there's a bit of a pickup in that mix with our Screening business kind of get them up to more of a positive than what we saw in the second quarter.
So I think there's incremental there.
And I think we still have very difficult comps in the Med Imaging side.
We were up over 20% on Med Imaging in the third fourth quarter last year.
So I think that's going to be a little bit of an offset to that.
So I think with those investments and with volumes getting -- returning to more of a mid-single type growth rate that's kind of where we think we'll end up.
So I guess when we think about the third quarter is we do expect to see incremental margin improvement on the Human Health side.
What we are forecasting is not as strong of expansion on the Environmental side.
Of course if you look at the first half Environmental Health was expanding operating margins over 200 basis points.
We're assuming that moderates down a little bit.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
You kind of touched on this Andy but just looking at the comps obviously in the Human Health business in the back half of last year right there they're increasingly or they appear to be increasingly tougher.
And Europe you kind of call that as being the Imaging growth in the back of last year.
So can the Human Health business as kind of consolidated actually accelerate in the back half of the year given that Imaging comp? From a margin perspective we think both gross margin and operating margin will expand in the second half despite the year-over-year comparison in Med Imaging.
Inc.</strong> And do you Andy remind us do you have any incremental capital redeployment activity built into your guidance at this point? The incremental capital? No we do not.
Jon do you mean like a stock buyback additional stock buyback? Inc.</strong> Yes right.
We have the authorization out there but we don't any of that built in into the guidance.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from the line of Paul Knight of CLSA.
When we look in the world of the traditional analytical instruments did you see any booking change? I mean obviously we worry that it's cyclical.
What's happening there? And then I guess Rob when you look at the Service side of the business it's a lot larger portion of Perkin do you really see any change in tone on Service? Or should Service really go through a rougher economic patch better? What's your thought on A hardware instrumentation? And secondly what do you think happens in the Service business in a recession if we have one? So on the Instrument side I think alluded to this a little bit before we have seen some slowing in Europe not surprising I think given what we're hearing about the economic environment there we are not seeing anything in Asia that's really noteworthy.
So Asia continues to be strong for us.
And the U.S.
seems to be fairly consistent.
So I think we still feel pretty good about the demand pattern for the Analytical Instruments side in the back half.
As I said we're moderating a little bit just relative to the strong second half we had last year.
On the Service side if you go back again to the discussion we have before in the '08 '09 timeframe Service business continued to do quite well during that period of time.
So it's difficult to say something is immune to the overall macroeconomic environment.
But I do think that the Service business has done pretty well historically.
Now part of that is if you were to sort of separate it between classical billable or time and material I think that does take a little bit of a hit during a difficult economic time.
What was more than offsetting that during the '08 '09 timeframe was we're continuing to expand the OneSource program because of the continued adoption of that largely within the pharmaceutical industry.
So I think the real challenge as we get into a more difficult environment is we'll we be able to continue to expand our addressable market with OneSource? And when I say that it's not only from an industry perspective it's also from a geographic perspective.
For more than offset what will be some pressure on the historical time and material aspect of service.
And then Rob on the Research Reagents businesses are you happy with the rejuvenation of that product line? Is that product line growing consistently now? What is the status of that? Well I think when you think about our Research Reagent business you really need to bifurcate it between the radio chemicals and the non-rad.
The radio chemicals as we talked on a number of occasions continue to be under pressure.
And so again this year -- this quarter it was down sort of high-single digits.
And we're continuing to try the best we can to sort of manage through that transition and we think at some point that does stabilize at a certain rate.
On the other hand on the non-rad side I think we continue to see good growth there.
And as you said I do feel good about the rejuvenations there both within internal investments that we've made as well as some of the external acquisitions we made.
So for example the VisEn business in the preclinical side saw a good growth in the quarter.
So I feel terrific about the progress we've made on the non-rad.
It's going to take us a little while to sort of make that piece large enough to make the non-rad piece not have such a big impact on the overall growth of the Reagents business.
With no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Robert Friel for closing remarks.
Please proceed.
Okay.
Well first of all thank you for your questions.
As we move into the third quarter our priorities will remain focused on bolstering our growth and utilizing a focused approach to improving our operating margins while investing in new technologies software and services that advance human and environmental health.
During our next earnings call I look forward to discussing our third quarter performance and how we're progressing against our priorities.
Thank you for your participation in today's call and your continued interest in PerkinElmer.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 PerkinElmer Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Chanel and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today to Mr.
Dave Francisco Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you very much.
Good afternoon and welcome to PerkinElmer's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
With me on the call are Rob Friel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Wilson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
If you have not received a copy of our earnings press release you may get one from the Investors section of our website at perkinelmer.com or from our toll-free investor hotline at 1(877)PKI-NYSE.
Please note this call is being webcast live.
It will be archived on our website until November 17 2011.
Before we begin we need to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor statements that we've outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings.
Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views only as of today.
We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements in the future even if our estimates change.
So you should not rely on any of today's forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date after today.
During this call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available as an attachment to our earnings press release.
To the extent that we use non-GAAP financial measures during this call that are not reconciled to GAAP in that attachment we will provide reconciliations promptly.
I'm now pleased to introduce the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PerkinElmer Rob Friel.
Thanks Dave.
Good afternoon and thank you all for joining us today.
We're pleased to report another good quarter for PerkinElmer which we successfully delivered strong financial results while continuing to make strategic investments to improve the long-term growth profile of the company.
From a financial perspective revenue grew 8% as reported and 4% organically despite a very strong Q3 last year in which we grew double digits organically.
In addition adjusted earnings per share increased in the third quarter to $0.41 up 32% from Q3 of last year and exceeded our guidance range of $0.37 to $0.39 per share.
In the quarter we experienced continued traction on our margin expansion initiatives with adjusted gross margin expanding by approximately 120 basis points.
Adjusted operating profit margins improved by 45 basis points despite increased investments in R&amp;D as we continue to focus on expanding our new product pipeline as well as selling and marketing investments to enhance our commercial capabilities primarily in emerging markets.
On a year-to-date basis our revenue was up 6% organically adjusted operating margins were up 90 basis points over the prior year and operating cash flow is up over 30%.
Additionally growth in adjusted earnings per share has increased an average of 28% in the last 7 quarters over the respective prior year periods.
Given that Andy will discuss our key market segments and financial results in more detail I'd like to provide a few of the key highlights from the quarter and then focus my remarks on our outlook going forward.
In the third quarter we experienced growth in all major geographic territories as well as the majority of our key end markets.
Within diagnostics we continue to benefit from the expansion of programs for both newborn and infectious disease screening particularly within the emerging territories.
Contributing to the solid growth in the period was a key win in Eastern Europe and the continuation of strong demand in Brazil and the Middle East.
Additionally we initiated a collaborative effort with a number of major Japanese universities to develop new methods of detecting radiation in soil water and food as well as a guide to develop and monitoring of decontamination methods which resulted in strong demand for our radiometric detection equipment in the period.
Also in the quarter we continue to broaden our OneSource service offering with the addition of an automated system for instrument qualification applicable and regulated lab environments.
Thereby furthering our commitment to maximize lab productivity for our customers.
Additionally we continued our efforts to expand beyond the pharmaceutical industry with our OneSource service offering and experienced early wins with customers in both environmental and industrial labs.
We continue to benefit from our recent acquisitions in areas such as informatics sample prep and imaging which will increase our relevancy for our customers and better position us in higher growth markets.
In Q2 we expanded our medical imaging growth profile with an acquisition of Dexela which is seeing strong demand including recently winning a contract with a leading diagnostic supplier and a leading orthopedic device company.
Chemagen also showed terrific growth in both North America and Europe with its nucleic acid sample preparation solutions as laboratories seek ways to facilitate their higher throughput applications.
Additionally our informatics acquisitions have demonstrated solid growth and although still early days are already making us a more important partner to many of our customers.
Our expected acquisition of Caliper Life Sciences will also strengthen our position in the growing area of personalized medicine as it will bolster our ability to provide customers with an even stronger pipeline of innovation.
In particular Caliper will bring excellent technology across the value chain from in vitro to in vivo imaging as well as expanded offerings across several of our key end segments.
Today Caliper reported another strong quarter with solid growth on both the top and bottom line.
We remain on track with this transaction and having secured HSR approval and the required financing.
I look forward to closing the transaction in the near future.
Now let's turn to the global economic environment and how we believe it will impact PerkinElmer.
Starting first with Europe.
During the quarter we experienced low single-digit growth with much stronger headwinds in the southern part than the northern and central parts.
While about 30% of our revenue is from Europe much of that is in end markets that we do not believe will be significantly impacted by the challenging economic conditions.
Furthermore only about 5% of our revenue is tied directly to European government spending that could be exposed to European government austerity measures.
In the U.S.
we experienced mid single-digit growth in the quarter and similar to Europe expect that macroeconomic conditions will continue to be challenging.
However we are seeing birth rates improving over last year and continued demand for environmental and safety products due to the both growing regulatory requirements and customers seeking to protect their brand reputation.
And of course our service business provides real stability as well as terrific access to our customers to expand our commercial relationships.
In the developing parts of the world which represent about 25% of our revenue we continue to see strong double-digit growth and expect this to continue.
During the quarter we once again increased our investments in these markets and believe we will have a great opportunity to leverage our channel capabilities to bring many of the products and technologies we recently acquired to this part of the world.
Through the last several years we have made a number of changes to our businesses organization and global footprint which I believe has resulted in a stronger more resilient company.
As a result due to the nature of our end markets our global diversity and strong customer relationships we believe that we can continue to grow should economic conditions become more challenging.
As we face the challenge of how to manage economic uncertainty while remaining focused on driving growth our strategy will be to prudently deploy our investments toward growth areas that we believe will create the best long-term returns.
However we will not be immune to the impacts and so we will be prudent with our investments and continue to look for ways to improve our processes and eliminate unnecessary costs.
As we move into Q4 I'm encouraged by our ability to continue to deliver solid financial results.
We have a portfolio that is uniquely positioned to capitalize on key trends impacting Human and Environmental Health and most importantly this is backed by our outstanding team of people around the world.
I would now like to turn the call over to Andy to get into the financial results in a little bit more detail.
Thanks Rob.
Good afternoon everyone.
I'm pleased to provide some additional details on our third quarter results and following my prepared remarks we'll open it up for questions.
Before moving into the financial details I'd like to clarify that whenever I talk about our particular measure being up or down I'm referring to an increase or decrease in that measure during the third quarter of 2011 compared to the third quarter of 2010.
As Rob just discussed we were pleased to deliver another solid quarter of growth and revenue adjusted earnings per share and cash flow particularly considering the difficult comparisons from the third quarter of 2010.
Revenue for the third quarter increased by 8% and organic revenue increased by 4% as compared to the same period last year.
By segment organic revenue increased by 2% and 6% in our Human Health and Environmental Health segments respectively.
All major geographies contributed to our organic revenue growth with the America's growing at a mid single-digit rate Europe growing at a low single-digit rate and Asia growing high single-digits with China up over 20%.
Additionally our presence in emerging markets continues to significantly contribute to our organic revenue growth with these key regions generating another strong quarter of double-digit growth.
From an end-market perspective PerkinElmer's Human Health segment represented approximately 46% of total revenue in the quarter.
Within Human Health we serve 2 end markets diagnostics which represented 29% of total revenue; and research which represented 17% of total revenue.
Organic revenue from our Diagnostics business grew at a mid-single digit rate in the third quarter with solid growth generated from both our screening and our Medical imaging businesses in the period.
Organic revenue at our screening business grew at a mid single-digit rate in the quarter as we experienced solid demand across all territories.
In the U.S.
we experienced healthy growth across all major areas of the portfolio.
As discussed in prior quarters we are seeing improving trends in birth rates which we estimated as flat in the period representing a significant improvement from the declines we experienced in 2010 and the first half of 2011.
Outside of the U.S.
we continue to see steady growth within the emerging territories particularly in China and Brazil as we continue to expand our footprint of screening solutions in these key high-growth areas of the world.
In our medical imaging business organic revenue grew at a mid single-digit rate in the quarter despite cycling up against the most difficult quarterly comparison from the prior year.
Our penetration in adjacent markets for this key imaging technology continues to benefit the business with very strong demand for industrial and veterinary applications in the period.
Additionally we were gaining traction with our CMOS imaging technology experiencing early wins with our key OEM partners for orthopedic surgical and industrial applications.
The strong growth in adjacent markets offset a modest decline in our base medical diagnostics offering due to the very difficult comparison from the prior year that I mentioned earlier.
Organic revenue in our research business declined in a low single-digit rate in the third quarter despite continued healthy demand for our preclinical offerings including our Operetta cellular imaging instrument utilized for in vitro research as well as strong growth in our fluorescent agents utilized for in vivo imaging.
Within the pharmaceuticals sector we experienced strong growth in China and India in the period as we continued to leverage our regional growth investments and benefit from the ongoing CRO outsourcing trend.
We're encouraged by our early success in capturing preclinical opportunities as well as the progress we continue to make in emerging markets.
However during the period these advances did not completely offset continued soft demand for our pharmaceutical customers in the developed regions of the world particularly related to our legacy products including our radioisotope portfolios.
Let's turn now to Environmental Health which represented 54% of total revenue in the quarter.
Within Environmental Health we served 3 end markets laboratory services which represented a 25% of total revenue; environmental and safety which represented 20% of total revenue and industrial which represented 9% of total revenue.
Organic revenue in our lab services business grew low-single digits in the third quarter.
As Rob mentioned earlier we're seeing good traction in our informatics as we begin to be to leverage our broad-based OneSource relationships to increase the knowledge content we are bringing to our customers through our robust enterprise-wide software systems.
Our traditional service offering was essentially flat in the period due primarily to difficult comparisons in our OneSource service offering as the business cycled up against a significant contract win in the prior year.
Organic revenue in our environmental and safety markets grew low-teens in the third quarter as the expanding number of environmental and food safety applications continue to drive strong demand for our analytical instrumentation and follow-on consumables.
We experienced another strong quarter of organic revenue growth from our inorganic analysis offering since trace metals identification remains a critical component of contaminate protection for environmental as well as food and consumer safety applications.
Additionally we experienced healthy growth in our molecular spectroscopy offering utilized primarily for material safety and quality applications.
We believe these trends will continue as emerging contaminant testing protocols and corresponding regulations are developed resulting in continued strong demand for a highly efficient analytically sensitive and information-rich testing solutions.
Lastly organic revenue in our industrial markets grew mid-single digits in the third quarter.
This industrial demand continues to be primarily associated with materials analysis chemical processing and semiconductor applications supported by our molecular spectroscopy and chromatography platforms.
Looking at our financial performance.
Adjusted gross margins expanded 120 basis points due to productivity gains and the favorable impact of acquisitions.
Adjusted operating profit margins expanded 45 basis points in the third quarter to 14.2%.
In the quarter we benefited from higher volume productivity gains particularly in G&amp;A and lower corporate cost.
This impact was offset by growth investments in R&amp;D and our commercial infrastructure in emerging territories as well as upfront costs related to new product launches particularly within our Environmental Health segment.
Year-to-date during the third quarter of 2011 adjusted operating profit margins expanded approximately 90 basis points as compared to the same period a year ago representing the high end of our stated objective of adjusted operating profit margin expansion of between 75 to 100 basis points.
In our Human Health segment adjusted operating profit margins for the quarter were 19.5% representing an increase of 20 basis points as compared to the third quarter of 2010.
Favorable mix and productivity gains in Human Health were offset by growth investments initiated in the period.
In our Environmental Health segment adjusted operating profit margins were 12.2% representing a decrease of 100 basis points as compared to the third quarter of 2010.
Within this segment we experienced strong volume leverage and productivity gains offset by unfavorable mix between instruments and service investments in commercial resources primarily in emerging markets as well as incremental cost as mentioned previously related to new products.
GAAP operating profit was $34.2 million in the third quarter of 2011 versus $41.4 million in the third quarter of 2010.
As year-over-year decrease is primarily attributable to the impact of acquisitions we completed earlier in the year.
These acquisitions resulted in a reduction in GAAP operating profits due to primarily to higher amortization of intangibles as well as the purchase accounting adjustments related to the acquisition of CambridgeSoft.
For the third quarter we had a GAAP tax rate of 11.9% and on a non-GAAP basis our adjusted tax rate was 24.2% which is favorable to our guidance communicated in August.
This favorability is due primarily to a favorable distribution of income in the period.
For the full year we expect the adjusted tax rate to be approximately 25%.
GAAP EPS from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2011 was $0.24 compared to $0.22 in the third quarter of 2010.
Our adjusted EPS was $0.41 in the third quarter of 2011 up 32% from the prior year.
Our weighted average diluted share count to the third quarter of 2011 was approximately 113.4 million shares and our ending share count was approximately 112 million -- 112.7 million shares.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We finished the third quarter with approximately $260 million of net debt which we define as short- and long-term debt minus cash.
This reflects a decrease in net debt of approximately $16 million as compared to the second quarter of 2011.
At the end of the quarter we had approximately $248 million of cash.
Looking at our cash flow performance for the quarter.
Adjusted operating cash flow from continuing operations was $50 million as compared to $37 million up 35% year-over-year.
Subsequent to the end of the third quarter we issued and sold $500 million of 10-year senior unsecured notes due November 2021 having a coupon rate of 5%.
These proceeds will be used to fund a portion of the Caliper Life Sciences acquisition and for general corporate purposes.
As result our fourth quarter outlook will reflect just over $5 million in additional interest expense.
In summary we are pleased with our financial performance for the quarter as we continue to drive strong growth in revenue adjusted earnings per share and cash flow.
Now I'd like to discuss our fourth quarter 2011 guidance.
As we look at the fourth quarter of 2011 we are encouraged by the resilience of our portfolio.
Most areas of our business continue to grow and experience healthy demand.
While we are not ignoring the risk that could arise from the current global economic uncertainty we firmly believe we are well positioned to deliver strong results in the fourth quarter.
As a result we are expecting our organic revenue growth in the fourth quarter to be similar to what we experienced in the third quarter and we are maintaining our full year forecast or organic revenue growth to be in the mid single-digit range.
We continue to expect adjusted operating profit margin expansion for the full year to be within the revised guidance range of 75 to 100 basis points driven predominantly by volume leverage in our multiyear productivity initiatives.
Regarding full year adjusted earnings per share for 2011 we are raising the bottom end of our estimate from a range of $1.64 to $1.68 to a new range of $1.66 to $1.68 representing growth of 25% to 26% over the prior year.
Accordingly we expect our fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $0.49 to $0.51.
Including in -- Included in the fourth quarter outlook is approximately $0.03 per share of incremental interest expense a benefit of approximately $0.01 per share due to a lower tax rate and a benefit of approximately $0.01 per share from the addition of Caliper Life Sciences.
This concludes my prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call back over to Dave.
Thanks Andy.
Operator at this time we'd like to call open the call for questions please.
[Operator Instructions]  And your first question comes from the line of Ross Muken of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Vijay in for Ross.
I guess Rob the first one is on the macro.
Could you comment on some of the conversations that you've been having with your industrial supply customers and specifically conversations you've been having in China? So specifically on the industrial customers I would say what we're seeing in China is continued good demand particularly when you look in Europe I would say the southern parts of Europe are obviously much more significant headwinds than I would say central and north and in U.S.
I would say again continue to be pretty good demand.
So I think on the industrial side with the exception of the southern part of Europe we continue to be -- feel pretty good about the opportunities particularly in the environmental area.
Research Division</strong> I guess digging in on the question [Audio Gap] when you talk to your customers has the sort of tone changed in the 3 months prior to what it is now? Are people worried I guess about the macro and what other views and ...
Yes.
I mean clearly over the last 3 months people have gotten more cautious.
But I would say we haven't seen a dramatic change in ordering patterns.
I think people are as I said more cautious the about 2012.
But I would say at this point again particularly on the industrial side and the Environmental side we're not seeing significant reductions in ordering.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Leonard of Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One do you have any meaningful pieces of your business that build off of a backlog? And if so how is the backlog trending? I would say some of the business for example medical imaging will be a business that has a much longer order cycle times so they have a backlog.
Some of the instruments but to a large extent most of it is book and bill in the current quarter.
But specifically about the business is that they do have a longer order for example medical imaging.
Again I would say that's holding up pretty well.
And that's why I think we continue to feel that Q4 will look a lot like Q3.
Of course keep in mind when we went into the back half we mentioned the fact that there's much difficult -- or much more difficult comparisons.
Because if you look at Q3 and Q4 last year for 2010 one was up 10% and one was up 9% organically.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you look at -- well Caliper's results today exceeded at least what the Street was looking for previously.
So did that -- are you still sticking with the $0.08 accretion estimate for 2012 or did anything in their resolve to cause you to think differently about that? No.
I think we still believe that $0.08 accretion in 2012 is the right number.
Research Division</strong> And then my final question on capital deployment.
It looks like you're going to be up getting closer to the 3x debt-to-EBITDA range after Caliper.
Do you have comfort to go higher than that? Or what sort of your -- the ceiling on where you get ...
And I would say it's probably driven at this point more by the management bandwidth.
And I think with the combination of the Caliper acquisition and of course a number of informatics acquisitions that we've done in the past couple of quarters that I wouldn't expect significant acquisitions done here and I think the focus will be more on sort of deleveraging the balance sheet and getting the acquisitions that we've made over the last couple of quarters well integrated and running well within PerkinElmer.
Your next question comes from the line of Quintin Lai of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Andy appreciate you giving that additional color on kind of the end markets and you're feeling that you're still -- you feel pretty good about growing even if the end markets kind of softened.
Could you kind of compare and contrast where your portfolio stands now versus like 2008 when you had the lighting business for example and maybe some other businesses that were more cyclical in nature? I wasn't here in 2008 so I'll let Rob answer that question.
But there are a number of differences now in the portfolio but...
Quintin so I would say it's not only I would say end markets.
As you point out we don't have the lightings we don't have the sensor businesses.
The acquisitions we've made I think put us in a more resilient markets.
I would say it's also we've seen a shift more into developing.
So as I mentioned 25% of our revenue now sits in developing and that's a significant increase over 2008.
Also we've seen a bigger increase in the sort of consumable reagents and software aspects of the businesses.
So the capital component of our business is much less.
So I think it's a combination of factors that leads us to believe that we feel good about the resiliency in a difficult economic situation.
I would say the other aspect of it is when you look at the revenue split between sort of capital and consumables and reagents and informatics it's probably about 60-40.
However when you look at the profitability it's more like 75-25.
So as you can imagine our consumable reagents and software businesses are much more profitable.
So again I think this -- and again that's a change over 2008.
So I think it continues to have sort to be supported by strong financial results even though macroeconomic conditions are challenging right now.
Research Division</strong> And then as we look out not just organic revenue growth but leverage especially dropping down to the bottom line.
In the event that we do see a slowdown could you kind of talk about potentially what other levers you could maybe pull or accelerate to help drive bottom line growth? Yes I mean I think that would be a choice we could make because what we have is obviously very strong gross margins.
And we've been fairly aggressively investing both on the R&amp;D.
I think you saw that R&amp;D stepped up fairly significantly here in third quarter and we continue to build out our infrastructure in emerging markets.
So I think one lever would be not necessarily would be our first preference but would be to sort of to slowdown in some of our growth investments which as you can see particularly in this quarter as we've been sort of stepping up here to continue to build out the growth profile of the company.
And Quintin I think as we look out to 2012 we obviously won't talk about '12 until January.
But as we have the businesses start to look at different scenarios they are putting together different outlooks and how they would react to those from an investment perspective and so forth.
So I think as we report our results for the fourth quarter and talk about our outlook for the first quarter or for 2012 I think we'll be able to share more detail with you.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Lawson from Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just wondered if you could talk to the pharma decline you are seeing.
If you could add some kind of granularity around that where you're seeing weakness? I would say in the research market and you saw that we were down low-single digits.
In academia we were sort of flattish and pharma was down sort of mid-single digits.
So we are seeing almost across the developed markets a pull back from the pharmaceutical R&amp;D continue to see growth in Asia both in Europe and in the U.S.
We are seeing declines in the pharmaceutical side.
I think that's one of the things we hope we'll be able to improve with the Caliper acquisition because I think they bring some great technology and products particularly around that area that will give us much stronger capabilities particularly in the imaging side because when you look in the pharmaceuticals we continue to grow in the imaging side and we think that's an opportunity for us.
And of course a number of the areas that they're focused on continue to see good growth.
But clearly in the pharmaceutical area in the quarter we saw a lot of declining revenue.
Research Division</strong> What was the biggest area of weakness in the quarter? What are the expectations for those markets in Q4? Well I would say first of all almost every quarter we go into we're facing declines in the radiochemical area.
So the reagents around the radiochemical side I think are -- because as people want to use less and less of radioisotopes in their experimentation.
So that continues to be in the sort of mid- to high-single-digit declines.
And so again Caliper helps to sort of balance that natural decline in that business.
So I would say those are the areas -- that's the area we probably saw the biggest decline.
Offset to some extent by the imaging which we saw a good growth.
Your next question comes from the line of Tony Butler Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Rob just if you could comment on Environmental Health.
The sequential growth you had has been really really strong and even if I take it back to last year really a slowdown in this quarter relative to what you've been able to do in past quarters.
Could you -- As I highlight that could you give some greater color to what's really driving that slowdown? Yes I think some of that was -- we indicated at the end of second quarter that we're going to cycle up again against a difficult comparison.
The environmental group in the third quarter of 2010 grew in the mid-teens.
And so I think that was part of it.
I think also on the service side we are cycling up against some very significant wins in Q2 and Q3 of last year.
So I would say that's the fundamental reason that you saw sequential declines on the Environmental side.
But within the businesses themselves we see -- we continue to see good demand particularly around the new products and in the organics.
And of course the informatics business performed very well in the quarter.
So I would attribute it to more of -- more difficult comparisons as compared to anything that we're seeing from a demand perspective.
Having said that clearly going back to the I think the first question that you asked the customers are being a little bit more cautious given the macroeconomic environment.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
But in Q2 you did have some pretty tough compares as well but you tended to pull out 9% organic and that look really attractive.
So it just seemed despite the tough compare it was a little more pressure.
Yes I would say on the margin there is -- in Q2 we had some new product rollouts that provided us a little bit of a benefit there.
But again Environmental Health was still pretty strong.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Knight CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Rob the Q4 guidance I guess it's suggesting low single-digit organic is that right? No.
I think I had indicated that it was going to be consistent with the third quarter.
We're sort of seeing the 4% to 5% range I think is what we're seeing from an organic perspective for Q4.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you add any color around that regarding geography U.S.
Europe and then I guess emerging market? Our sense right now is it's probably going to look somewhat similar to what you're seeing in this quarter with Europe being low single and then the U.S.
being mid and probably continuing to see stronger growth in Asia.
This year it was -- this quarter it was high single.
It's been sort of either high single or low double the last number of quarters.
And so I think the geographic split is going to -- continue to look very similar in Q4 as it's been in Q3.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly on the China market how is the development of the business going there Rob? It continues to go very strong.
China again was north of 20% growth.
And I would say it's fairly pervasive across almost all our businesses whether it's the Environmental side the diagnostic side and even within the bio-discovery or the research side which is a relatively small piece for us we continue to see good traction there.
And Paul as we mentioned earlier part of the expansion we're seeing some of the investment we're seeing on the Environmental Health side is really around selling resources in China.
So we expect that to continue to grow at above company rates.
I mean one of the significant opportunities we hope to achieve in 2012 is both the informatics businesses that we acquired as well as Caliper did not have a very strong infrastructure.
I would say in emerging markets generally speaking but specifically in China.
So we think we can really make some inroads there with bringing new technologies and products through our channel.
Research Division</strong> I don't follow Caliper anymore but between Caliper and your research products businesses are you seeing the -- any increase or any change in translational research validating gene function et cetera following all the human genome work that's occurred? Well as you know we haven't actually combined the businesses yet because we haven't closed.
But I think when you look at some of the exciting technology innovations that Caliper has been working on I think there'll be a tremendous opportunity to expand or improve medicine particularly combining with some of the things we do both on the research side as well as the diagnostic side.
So I really think combined we can really make a significant difference in improving both diagnostics as well as therapeutics.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Wood of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Brandon Couillard in for Jon tonight.
Andy the corporate overhead expense component fell pretty sharply in the period.
Is there something unusual going on there in the quarter? It's primarily related to compensation that's tied to the stock price and the stock price unfortunately over that time frame was down.
And I think if you look at the fourth quarter or you start to look at forecasting the fourth quarter it will probably return to more normalized levels.
We expect it to and hopefully the stock price will as well.
But the more normalized levels that you saw in the first and second quarter.
As you can imagine a lot of the senior managers' compensation is tied to the performance of the stock price.
And so when we see the type of decline in stock price that we experienced in Q3 it can dramatically impact our compensation.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then Andy back on the environmental incremental OP margins in the period I mean should we anticipate that that phenomenon persist into the fourth quarter and...
No.
I think you're going to see operating margin expansion in reasonable incremental flow-through in the fourth quarter.
I think a lot of the heavy-lifting investment was done in the third quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that was the second part of my question if you could give us some sense of the impact between mix and the commercial investments you are undertaking.
I would say of the decline about 2/3 of it was investment.
And the mix would be the other third.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then lastly Rob you quantified the exposure to European government and academic end markets.
Can you expand on that and talk about the U.S.
and maybe your aggregate footprint in that? So the U.S.
is a little higher than that but of course when we talk about government exposure a large portion of our exposure is our newborn screening which is state funding.
And quite frankly as long as I've been here we've never seen a decrease in newborn screening coming out of the states.
And normally when there's pressure on the state funding it has a tendency to suppress growth but not necessarily result in decline.
And again in the fourth quarter -- I mean in third quarter we saw growth in the newborn screening businesses in the U.S.
So while the number is probably closer to 10% in the U.S.
again it is distorted by the newborn screening business.
Your next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jeff in for Isaac.
Looking at gross margins and understanding the stuff you guys talked about so far I mean it's the highest gross margin quarter you guys have had in a while.
How should we look with the sustainability of this going forward? How much of it was mix versus volume? Well adjusted gross margins for the quarter were up 120 basis points and about half of that was acquisition-related and that will obviously continue.
These acquisitions we brought out have higher gross margins.
But the other was really productivity and that should be sustainable.
Certainly -- maybe not at the 100-plus basis points year-over-year but somewhere in that range.
So I would say as you look into the fourth quarter we should see sequential and year-over-year gross margin improvement.
I mean one of the things we're seeing with some of the acquisitions we've made is they have a tendency to be higher growth higher gross margin and higher R&amp;D.
And so what you saw in this quarter is the beginning of some of the impact of that where you so higher gross margins and higher R&amp;D.
We actually think that's a favorable improvement to the P&amp;L.
Research Division</strong> Going back from the questions you guys had touched on the pharma segment.
If you x out the radioisotope declines did you see growth from your pharma customers overall? Yes.
I mean I haven't done that calculation to tell you the truth.
But -- yes I would say probably pulling out the radiochemical business we probably would have seen growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- well lastly on Europe can you give a little bit more color in terms of where in Europe not necessarily geography geographically for the weakness but from a product line basis was it more in diagnostics or research or...
It was clearly more in research.
Diagnostics grew in Europe and the Environmental business grew in Europe.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Willoughby of Cleveland Research.
Last quarter you said that you expect Human Health to remain or either grow into the mid-single digits for growth in the fourth quarter.
Is that still accurate based on the comps that you guys are facing? Yes.
I would say I think we're going to see improvement in the Human Health in the fourth quarter as compared to what we've seen historically.
Well I mean a lot of that will be dependent on what happens within the research markets but I think we're clearly seeing some recovery in diagnostics.
I think you saw that in the third quarter.
And so it's really a question of the improvements on the research side.
And of course we do expect to get some contribution from Caliper.
And then secondly on the radiochemicals business how much would you estimate that represents of your total revenue these days? It's about $100 million in total for the company.
Okay.
And then final question given the CambridgeSoft contracts I know they're a little bit more skewed towards the fourth quarter.
What's a good number for acquisition revenue that you're expecting in the fourth quarter? For total acquisition revenue it's going to be around $27 million.
Pre-Caliper right.
I'm sorry that was pre-Caliper just to be clear.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Jon Groberg of Macquarie.
So just maybe a quick follow-up on the other one.
Do you -- I'm just trying to understand the revenue line and some of the adjustments that you made a little bit.
I'm just trying to understand from an acquisition standpoint some of those acquisitions you made I'm trying to understand how they performs.
So if I'm reading it right kind of in your release how you talked about the reported revenue and some of the acquisition you're adjusting for some of these purchase accounting issues.
So what was the -- on an adjusted basis what was the acquisition contribution in revenues for third quarter? Just over $20 million.
Okay.
So there's no deterioration there in those businesses that you acquired? No.
And from a profitability standpoint they were just under company average margins.
Okay.
Yes the initial 2% makes it look like there was some kind of severe deterioration but I just wanted to make sure okay.
And then -- I'm sorry I don't know if you're going to say something else? No.
Okay.
And then Rob obviously a lot of people have hit on the macro quite a bit.
But kind of what can we expect in -- as we move throughout this year in 2012 from a new product standpoint? At times that's an important driver whether or not you're able to sustain some of the growth as I think you mentioned earlier on the call.
So where are we in terms of kind of some of the -- what you expect coming out of the product pipeline? Well you've seen a little bit of an increase in R&amp;D and I think that's focused around getting more new products into the pipeline.
I think what you saw in 2011 was some really terrific products coming out in the Environmental side.
And as we go into 2012 our expectation is to see some good products coming out of the hopefully both but probably geared toward the Human Health side as compared to the Environmental side.
And there are no further questions in the queue.
I'll now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Robert F.
Friel.
So first of all thank you for all your questions.
Let me say in closing we feel good about our portfolio and our continued ability to invest in key growth areas that will create long-term value while also driving our multiyear productivity initiative.
Our approach will be to balance investments in long-term growth combined with our continued pursuit for operational excellence as we continue to play a critical role in creating better outcomes that help to improve the health and safety of people and the environment.
Thank you for joining us today and have a terrific day.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 PerkinElmer Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jeremy and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Dave Francisco Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and welcome to the PerkinElmer Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
If you have not received a copy of our earnings press release you may get one from the Investors section of our website at perkinelmer.com or from our toll-free investor hotline at 1 (877) PKI-NYSE.
Please note this call is being webcast live and be archived on our website until February 16 2012.
Before we begin we need to remind everyone of our Safe Harbor statements that we've outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings.
Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views only as of today.
We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements in the future even if our estimates change.
So you should not rely on any of today's forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date after today.
And during this call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during this call for the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available as an attachment to our earnings press release.
To the extent we use non-GAAP financial measures during this call that are not reconciled to GAAP in that attachment we will provide reconciliations promptly.
I'm now pleased to introduce the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PerkinElmer Rob Friel.
Thanks Dave.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
We're pleased to report another great quarter for PerkinElmer rounding out a very good year for the company and a year in which we made significant progress across a number of parameters.
Given that Andy will discuss our financial results and key market segments in more detail I'll provide high-level financial highlights and focus more on our strategic progress as well as discuss our outlook and guidance going forward.
Turning first to our fourth quarter financial performance PerkinElmer delivered strong growth in revenue adjusted earnings per share and cash flow.
Revenue grew 15% and organic revenue grew 6% in the period.
Adjusted operating margins increased approximately 250 basis points and operating cash flow was $82.5 million up 95% over Q4 last year.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.62 in the fourth quarter up 38% from the fourth quarter of last year and significantly better than our guidance of $0.49 to $0.51.
This much stronger performance was attributable to 3 fundamental reasons.
First our revenue growth was stronger than we forecasted largely due to higher growth in Europe than we had expected with particular strength from Eastern Europe.
Second a more favorable mix and improved operating execution resulted in excellent conversion of our incremental revenue.
And finally the profitability of Caliper during this stub period was better than expected.
While stub periods are sometimes difficult to forecast Caliper's performance benefited from the timing of the closing as their expenses in the quarter were fairly linear but their revenue was skewed towards the end of the quarter.
The higher-than-planned profit from Caliper contributed about 1/3 of the approximate 250 basis point margin improvement for the company with the remainder coming from solid revenue growth favorable mix and improved operating execution offset somewhat by the stronger U.S.
dollar.
Turning to the full year.
Revenue grew 13% and organically revenue grew 6% at the high end of our original guidance with solid contributions from all territories.
We expanded adjusted operating margins by 150 basis points to 15.4% well in excess of our stated objective.
Our progress in 2011 gives us even greater confidence in our ability to meet our objective of 18% adjusted operating margins in 2014.
This improved profitability translated into adjusted earnings per share growth for 2011 of 35%.
Lastly adjusted operating cash flow grew 24%.
During 2011 we also made significant progress improving the growth profile of the company through the introduction of several market-driven innovative new products and a number of acquisitions that expanded our capabilities and considerably increased our addressable markets.
In particular we significantly strengthened our capabilities in molecular analysis imaging sample preparation and informatics.
And combined with our historical strength we now believe we have put together a portfolio of highly differentiated offerings to serve the diagnostic research and environmental markets.
While it is still early we are extremely pleased with how the acquisition integrations are proceeding and our strong results in the back half of 2011 are partially due to our recent acquisitions exceeding our expectations during last year.
Also in 2011 we continued to make a real difference for the lives of millions of people across the globe.
I'll highlight a couple of examples.
Through our digital imaging technology we touched over 1 million people through cancer screening and radiotherapy.
Over 2 million scientists worldwide use our electronic notebook and software to improve their research efforts.
Through our analytical instruments over 1.5 billion environmental samples were analyzed hoping to improve the quality of air water and food for millions.
And we screened over 31 million newborns last year resulting in 50 babies a day being saved from severe medical complications.
As we look ahead I'm excited about our ability to leverage our global footprint strong customer relationships and full spectrum of technologies to continue to help improve the quality of life across the globe from early detection of disease to ensuring cleaner drinking water and safer food.
Turning now to 2012 guidance we remain cautious with regard to the overall macroeconomic environment and have therefore assumed growth in our end market remained similar to what we saw during the last half of 2011.
Accordingly we expect full year revenue to grow 10% to 12% and organic revenue grow to be in the mid-single digit range.
We continue to believe we can expand adjusted operating margins in the 75 to 100 basis point range this year despite expanding operating margins of 150 basis points in 2011.
Given these factors we estimate our full year adjusted per share -- earnings per share for 2012 to be in the range of $1.98 to $2.04 representing growth of 9% to 11% over the prior period.
Assuming we achieve the midpoint of our ranges that we have suggested since the end of 2009 our adjusted revenue will have increased approximately 40% over the 3-year period and adjusted EPS will have increased 85%.
I would now like to turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon everyone.
I'll now provide some additional details on our fourth quarter results.
And following my prepared remarks we'll open it up for questions.
As Rob just discussed we were very pleased to deliver another strong quarter of growth in revenue adjusted earnings per share and cash flow finishing off a great year for PerkinElmer.
Revenue for the fourth quarter increased by 15% and our organic revenue increased by 6% as compared to the same period last year.
By segment organic revenue increased by 5% and 7% in our Human Health and Environmental Health segments respectively.
By geography organic revenue in the Americas was flat while Asia and Europe grew at a double-digit rate with Eastern Europe showing particular strength in the quarter.
Within the emerging markets which represented approximately 27% of total revenue in the quarter we experienced continued strong demand posting organic revenue growth of over 20% in these regions.
From an end market perspective PerkinElmer's Human Health segment represented approximately 48% of total revenue in the quarter.
Within Human Health we serve 2 end markets Diagnostics which represented 26% of total revenue and Research which represented 22% of total revenue.
Organic revenue from our Diagnostics business increased at a low-double digit rate in the fourth quarter with strong growth generated from both our screening and Medical Imaging businesses.
Our Screening business benefited from solid demand across all major areas of the portfolio despite cycling up against significant instrument placements from the prior year and ongoing pressure from relatively low birth rates in the U.S.
In addition we continue to gain traction in emerging markets as we further penetrate these fast-growing highly populated regions of the world with our market-leading screening solutions.
In our Medical Imaging business we saw a healthy demand across all key platforms with solid growth from our base medical diagnostics offering as well as strong contributions from nonmedical applications incorporating our amorphous silicon detectors and from surgical applications utilizing our CMOS imaging technology.
Organic revenue in our Research business declined modestly in the fourth quarter.
Within our base research business we saw a continued demand for our in Vitro Imaging Systems particularly our Opera High Content Screening System utilized for greater understanding of biological functions through the study of cellular dynamics.
Moreover we experienced strong growth in our radiometric detection equipment in support of identification and remediation efforts related to the ongoing nuclear issues in Japan.
With regard to Caliper we saw a broad-based demand across the portfolio experiencing strong interest in the recently launched Spectrum CT for simultaneous in vivo imaging of multiple animal [ph] models providing critical insights into complex living biological systems.
We also saw strong growth from our LabChip GX/GXII microfluidic systems as our customers remain acutely focused on fast high-quality results in genomic and biologic research.
Let's now turn to Environmental Health which represented 52% of our total revenue in the fourth quarter.
Within Environmental Health we serve 3 end markets: Laboratory Services which represented 24% of total revenue; Environmental and Safety which represented 19% of total revenue; and Industrial which represented 9% of total revenue.
During the quarter we saw double-digit organic growth within both Environmental and Safety and Industrial and low-single digit organic growth in our Lab Services business as we cycled up against a significant contract win from last year.
During the quarter we experienced strong organic revenue growth from all of our major product areas in Human Health.
The broad-based demand illustrates the breadth and depth of our product offering and our extensive application knowledge as we help address our customers’ need for a wide range of detection capabilities for trace metal and organic content.
Before going any further I want to provide some additional color on the 2 non-cash charges we highlighted in our release.
These charges had an unfavorable impact on our GAAP results in the quarter but we believe will benefit the company in the long run.
First we changed our methodology of accounting for our defined pension plans.
This change is particularly relevant to PerkinElmer as these plans are primarily related to businesses we no longer own and only approximately 10% of the beneficiaries within these plans are active in our current operations.
In addition the mark-to-market method of accounting for defined benefit plans is the preferred method under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles as it provides greater clarity of business performance and improves the comparability of financial results by clearly segregating the financial implications of defined benefit plans.
This change has no economic implications and there is no impact on cash flow or pension funding requirement or to PerkinElmer's future liabilities associated with these plans.
I will provide additional details on the impact to our financial results shortly but I want to highlight that as a convenience to our analysts and our investors we have placed in the Investor section of our website a presentation which includes further information on this change as well as a summary of our historical results reflecting this change.
This analysis includes GAAP results as well as a reconciliation to our non-GAAP results.
Secondly during the quarter we recorded an incremental tax provision for the repatriation of $350 million of earnings from international operations which will enable us to utilize these funds to pay down our increased debt resulting from the acquisition of Caliper.
This one-time charge of $80 million represents a 23% effective tax rate on the repatriation.
The utilization of tax attributes attained with the acquisition of Caliper will result in virtually no cash taxes on this repatriation.
But under GAAP we are required to record a nontax charge in the P&amp;L because the tax benefits from the Caliper tax attributes are reported on the balance sheet.
The long-term benefits of accelerating debt reduction will benefit us with more flexibility to resume strategic capital deployment thereby continuing to increase our growth profile.
Now looking at our margin performance in the period adjusted gross margin expanded approximately 300 basis points driven by volume leverage strong productivity gains resulting from our margin expansion initiatives and the favorable impact of acquisitions.
Adjusted operating margins expanded approximately 250 basis points in the fourth quarter to 18.5% due primarily to these same factors.
For the full year 2011 adjusted operating margins expanded approximately 150 basis points to 15.4% as compared to the same period a year ago well ahead of our stated objective of adjusted operating margin expansion of between 75 to 100 basis points.
With further productivity investments planned in 2012 we firmly believe in our ability to achieve our stated goal of high-teens operating margins by 2014.
In our Human Health segment adjusted operating margins for the quarter were 22.8% representing an increase of approximately 350 basis points as compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 while our Environmental Health segment delivered adjusted operating margins of 18.8% representing an increase of approximately 320 basis points.
Volume leverage favorable mix and productivity gains across the company combined with solid contributions from our Caliper and informatics businesses drove these strong segment performances.
GAAP operating loss was $27.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 versus operating income of $48.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
As mentioned previously the fourth quarter of 2011 includes a noncash pretax charge of approximately $69 million in the period resulting from the change in accounting methodology for our defined benefit plans.
To reiterate this change has no impact on our cash flows or funding obligations.
For the fourth quarter our GAAP tax rate included a non-cash charge of approximately $68.3 million related to our previously mentioned plans to repatriate foreign earnings to accelerate both our deleveraging strategy as well as for the utilization of the net operating loss carry forwards obtained with the acquisition of Caliper partially offset by other discrete items.
On a non-GAAP basis our adjusted tax rate was 24.5% which is slightly favorable to the guidance communicated in November.
GAAP loss per share from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2011 was $0.75 compared to earnings per share of $0.37 in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our adjusted EPS was $0.62 in the fourth quarter of 2011 up 38% from the prior year and exceeding our guidance for the quarter of $0.49 to $0.51.
For the full year adjusted EPS was $1.83 as compared to $1.36 in 2010 representing an increase of 35% year-over-year.
Our weighted average basic share count for the fourth quarter of 2011 was approximately 112.7 million shares and our ending share count was approximately 112.8 million shares.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We finished the fourth quarter with approximately $945 million of debt and approximately $142 million of cash.
Looking at our cash flow performance for the quarter our operating cash flow from continuing operations was $82.5 million as compared to $42.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 representing an increase of 95% year-over-year.
For the full year operating cash flow from continuing operations was $234 million as compared to $163.1 million which included a $30 million voluntary pension contribution in the prior year.
Full year adjusted operating cash flow was up 24% year-over-year.
In summary we are extremely pleased with our financial performance for the fourth quarter.
15% reported revenue growth 6% organic growth 38% growth in adjusted earnings per share 95% growth in operating cash flow and approximately 250 basis points of operating margin expansion are the result of the dedication and hard work of PerkinElmer's 7 000 employees around the world successfully executing on our growth and productivity initiatives.
This performance gives us even greater confidence in our ability to achieve our longer-term objectives.
Now I'd like to discuss our 2012 guidance in a bit more detail.
We expect full year 2012 reported growth of 10% to 12% and organic revenue to be in the mid-single digits or approximately 4% to 6%.
In the first quarter we expect adjusted revenue to be in the range of $500 million to $510 million with organic revenue growing at the low end of the mid-single digit range given the difficult double-digit growth comparison from the prior year.
We expect an impact from foreign exchange in the first quarter similar to that of the full year or a headwind of approximately 200 basis points.
Regarding adjusted operating margins with leverage on the expected revenue growth as well as continued progress on our multiyear productivity initiatives we expect to continue to expand adjusted operating margins in the range of 75 to 100 basis points for the year.
Bringing all these factors together we estimate our full year adjusted earnings per share for 2012 to be in the range of $1.98 to $2.04 representing growth of 8% to 12% over the prior year.
Additionally taking into consideration the items just discussed we expect adjusted earnings per share for the first quarter to be in the range of $0.39 to $0.41 representing growth of 11% to 17% as compared to the first quarter of 2011.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call back over to Dave.
Thanks Andy.
Operator at this time we'd like to open up the call for some questions please.
[Operator Instructions]  Our first question comes from Jon Groberg with Macquarie Capital.
Congratulations on what looks like a good start to the Caliper integration.
Obviously a lot of adjustments here.
I'll have to go to your investor website and get all the details.
But I just have 2 questions.
First Rob I guess if you think about geographically most companies have been talking about more strength in the U.S.
and kind of weaker in Europe.
And as you said you had kind of in the quarter the exact opposite.
So maybe you can just talk about what you're seeing geographically and how you think that plays out in 2012? And then the second question is on the Environmental Health operating margin where obviously there you didn't have a benefit from Caliper but you still had pretty significant expansion which is a big reversal from last quarter.
Maybe you can just detail that a little bit more? So I would say on the geographic side and I think we mentioned this briefly is the reason why we saw strength in Europe was largely Eastern Europe in particular in the Diagnostic area.
We saw some real strength in Russia where we had won a tender where they were looking at both newborn screening and prenatal screening.
So that was really one of the big drivers to the double-digit growth in Europe.
I think in the U.S.
one of the reasons why for us U.S.
was a little weaker was because of strong comps in Q4 of 2010.
We had very strong growth in the U.S.
So I think those are the explanations for maybe why we're a little off than maybe what some of the other companies you're talking to.
And with regard to the environmental margin expansion I mean we've been seeing good operating margin expansion in the environmental area.
And I think what we saw in Q4 was particularly strong mix.
And you're seeing some of the benefit now of the informatic acquisitions as they start to ramp up.
Of course we talked about this at the time of the acquisitions.
They carry obviously much higher gross margins and much higher operating margins.
So we saw those benefits manifest themselves in Q4.
Okay.
And then just in 2012 kind of maybe are there any other tenders or how do you think geographically things will play out in 2012? So as I think about 2012 I expect the U.S.
and Europe to be comparable particularly when we talk about Europe as Eastern and Western Europe.
And I think they're going to be in the low-single digits.
And I continue to see the majority of our growth from a growth rate perspective coming in the APAC regions.
So like I said U.S.
and Europe probably in the low-single digits.
I think probably the APAC region is high-single low-double.
Our next question comes from Dan Leonard with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> On your EBIT margin expansion plans for 2012 you mentioned that assume some leverage on incremental revenue as well as productivity initiatives.
How much of the expansion would you throw in each bucket? And I guess I'm trying to think of how sensitive that expansion would be to your revenue line.
So I would say probably 60% is revenue and 40% is from the productivity.
And that assumes the mid-single growth that we've guided to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the productivity initiatives are those primarily targeted on the gross margin line on the OpEx or any color? They're actually a little bit of both.
We're doing some things from a G&amp;A perspective.
I think we've talked on a couple calls about how we want to continue to drive back office consolidation.
And then in the other area you may have saw we made some announcements a couple of weeks ago with regard to moving some of our manufacturing into Asia.
And obviously those benefits will flow through the gross margin side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my final question on CambridgeSoft on the software side I guess if there's anything to pick out in this quarter I actually thought the number for that business would have been higher.
I thought it was very Q4 loaded.
Looking forward do you still expect that business to be Q back-end loaded or seasonal? Or would you expect it to normalize and smooth out under your ownership as opposed to...
I think it will smooth out to some extent but it takes us a little while.
As you know well in the software business the revenue recognition is sometimes difficult to predict.
And so if we look at the informatics business in the back half it probably grew mid- to high-single digits but our expectation for 2012 is more in the mid-teens.
And I think as it becomes -- as we own it longer we'll do a -- we'll be able to increasingly smooth out the flow of that revenue.
So I expect 2012 will be more linear than '11.
And '13 will be more linear than '12.
Our next question comes from Ross Muken with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So in terms of sort of Caliper since you've owned it how would you sort of characterize kind of happy surprises parts that you feel like you need to work on? How you feel like you're going to take some of the R&amp;D expertise there and reinvigorate maybe parts of the research franchise and kind of turn around that business that's sort of been growing below market for a while? So I would say first of all that the probably most important surprise from my perspective is the quality of the people and the leadership.
I mean I think we had some sense of that during the discussions.
But as we sort of get more and more involved with the individuals at Caliper it's really sort of a terrific group of individuals both with good technical domain experience but also terrific attitude and really very sort of culturally synergistic with what we're trying to do where we're trying to improve health sort of across the globe.
So I would say that's been a -- probably the biggest surprise.
And I would say the other thing is we get to sort of better understand their technology.
We also see increasing opportunities across all of PerkinElmer.
So while we I would say report this business within the Research segment we are fairly optimistic that some of the for example microfluidic capability is going to be able to be deployed on the food pathogen area as well as in the diagnostic side.
So I would spike out those 2 as big surprises from a positive perspective.
Research Division</strong> And Andy just from a capital deployment perspective is debt paydown going to be the focus still in the interim or with the repatriation does that sort of solve some of it? And if not sort of where is the M&amp;A focus going to be? I think we'll still be active in the diligence side of M&amp;A.
But I think at least over the next several months we are going to focus on delevering.
I think we were able to put more cash into the deal so we actually started at a better place.
We still expect by the end of this year to have really gotten back to where we started prior to the Caliper acquisition.
So I would say we may be a little slower in the first half than the second half but I think at some point we'll be active again on the M&amp;A side.
Yes.
And Ross I would say the other thing is I think the reason for the pause is not only financial in nature right? We've got a couple significant integrations in front of us.
And so with the informatics businesses and of course the Caliper integration I think we want to make sure we focus on those.
And so I think both for financial reasons and for management bandwidth reasons I don't expect to see anything significant in the first half of '12.
And our next question comes from Quintin Lai with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> So first with respect to kind of the outlook for 2012 mid-single digit but looking at your 2 segments Environmental and Human Health should we assume that Human Health then with a more cautious outlook to be lower core growth and Environmental Health to be higher? No.
Actually I think as we look out forward to 2012 we think we're going to see much more consistent growth from both segments.
As Andy mentioned that we were pleased in Q4 to see that it was 5% and 7% I actually think for 2012 you could see a scenario where we continue to see fairly similar growth across the Human and the Environmental Health.
And of course one of the reasons for that is we continue to feel good about the prospects for Caliper to improve the growth profile of the Human Health side.
Research Division</strong> And then Rob over the -- it seems like the last few weeks we've seen a lot of news with respect to maybe a diagnostic company going hostile against one of the -- the tool space.
We've seen tools companies increase their diagnostics management or do acquisitions.
Kind of could you give us a little update on how you feel about your diagnostics platform? And what do you think you need to do to continue to grow that over the next let's say 3 to 5 years? Well I would start off by saying look we feel terrific about our diagnostic platform.
I would say the way to think about our diagnostics platform is it's a little different though in the developed markets as it is in the emerging markets.
I would say in the developed markets it's fairly specialized around newborn and prenatal and maybe some molecular diagnostics test in particularly in those applications.
I think when you get in the emerging markets it's much broader from the standpoint of we have a terrific channel with the SYM-BIO acquisition.
And of course we picked up through that acquisition assays and capabilities into infectious disease and places like HIV and hepatitis C.
So I think you've got to look at it as in the emerging markets a much broader diagnostic play.
Whereas I think in the developed markets it's fairly specialized.
Research Division</strong> Do you think that over the time period do you feel like that you have what you need to continue to grow? Or will you be looking to be opportunistic with let's say M&amp;A? Well I think we'll continue to be opportunistic across all our businesses.
But as I sort of alluded to before the other very interesting aspect of Caliper is as you know a lot of our diagnostic test of immunoassays and protein base and Caliper brings us some very interesting technology around molecular DNA testing.
So we also down the road look to sort of deploy some of that into our diagnostic channel.
But I think we'll continue to look and add assets as I said across all of our businesses.
And obviously you mentioned the attractiveness of the diagnostic market.
And so obviously that's an area of significant priority for us.
And our next question comes from Nandita Koshal with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if to begin with if you could comment on expectations around the Caliper deal included in the 2012 guidance.
Has your view of the revenue and EPS accretion changed at all? What's the contribution from that piece? No I don't think anything's changed for '12.
I would say that the expectations of '11 are obviously now that '11's closed were a little bit low.
But I think we still expect $0.08 of accretion and the top line growth of around $180 million is still pretty firm.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Andy is there a meaningful tax rate advantage linked to the deal? I believe there was a fairly quick advantage that you could see in 2012.
How should we be thinking about the tax rate? No I think that was really the reference to the repatriation of the cash.
While Caliper had some tax attributes the requirement under the acquisition accounting is those tax attributes actually go up to the balance sheet as a deferred tax asset and you do not get the benefit of that through the P&amp;L.
And so to some extent by bringing the cash back we're utilizing those attributes much sooner.
So while we get a significant economic benefit from the tax attributes we don't get a P&amp;L or earnings benefit.
Research Division</strong> I see.
And again on the margin expansion front you're looking for a 75 to 100 basis points of margin expansion for the full year.
That's including obviously the very high margin acquisitions that benefited Q4.
How much of that expansion is coming from acquisitions? And why does that number not look more comparable to what we found in Q4? I know there was a bit of that skewed revenue profile issue as well.
But one would imagine you'd be above the usual run rate on margin expansion? Well first of all I'll start off by saying look we think when you do 100 basis points we think that's pretty terrific performance.
But I would say one of the things that is depressing that is that we are also within that 75 to 100 basis points continuing to fund productivity moves.
So I mentioned the fact that we're talking about moving some production in the low cost regions.
We're also doing some things from a G&amp;A perspective.
And so when you do those types of moves very often you have repetitive costs.
And so the 75 to 100 basis point margin expansion is net of funding the continued productivity actions we're taking so that we can continue in '13 and '14 to achieve the margin expansion and hit our 18% that we stated.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And I don't mean to hog time here so just one very quick last one.
What was the source of the strength in Eastern Europe? What end markets et cetera? It was largely in the diagnostic area and specifically in our newborn and prenatal area.
Our next question comes from Jon Wood with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So what are the -- what are your expectations for the Medical Imaging business in your guidance for '12? I think the Medical Imaging business will perform similar to the overall corporation so our expectations are probably mid-single.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Rob when I lump prenatal neonatal and cord together that business looks like it's around low-single digits in the full year of '11.
Does that accelerate in '12 that kind of collective newborn business? So I think your assumption on '11 is correct.
And I think for 2012 our assumption is it accelerates a little bit.
But the real key factor for that business is birth rates.
And historically when you look at a recession particularly in the U.S.
you'll see depressed birthrates for maybe 12 18 months.
We're now going into the third year.
So that's going to be the real determinant for us is if we continue to see flat-to-down birthrates it's going to be tough to grow much beyond mid-single digits.
If we get a little help from birthrates I think you could see some acceleration there.
Now clearly outside the U.S.
and I think in particular the prenatal area we expect to see much better growth than that.
It's just a question of how much the U.S.
will be a headwind.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Is the and this is for Andy the Caliper NOL shield is -- you basically exhausted that with the 350 bringing that back.
Right? Is it totally done at this point or is there still some kind of fringe benefit there? No.
For the most part it is done at this point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one is what -- did you give a tax rate guidance for 2012? We didn't.
But it will be slightly better than our fourth quarter which was 24%.
We're going to -- we estimate it to be 24% for 2012 but [indiscernible] points lower.
And our next question comes from Paul Knight with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> As you go into the 2012 period the risk would be budgets are reset by customers and academics like they've done in past recessions.
What's your read on customer attitudes on their R&amp;D plans for 2012? So I think we're cautiously optimistic in that regard Paul.
But the only thing I would say is and again we've seen this in the past even though people will sort of reset their budgets or cut their spending we find that they still tend to spend in the areas where they think they're getting good productivity improvements or improved technology capabilities.
And so I feel pretty confident that and particularly with some of the new products that we've come out with and some of the call offerings that Caliper has that even despite some realignment of budgets I think we'll still find moneys allocated to the types of things that we can deliver to the customers.
Research Division</strong> Where are you with R&amp;D budgets Rob? Are they going to go up or be unchanged as a percentage of revenue? They've gone up a little bit in the back half of 2011 and they'll continue to go up in 2012.
And just to give you a perspective we're now at a run rate closer to $125 million or $130 million a year and we entered the year at a run rate of about $100 million a year.
So we've taken that up fairly significantly.
Now to be fair our revenue has grown as well.
But we've significantly improved the R&amp;D spend at PerkinElmer and we'll continue to do that.
Research Division</strong> As a percent of revenue going up a bit? It will go up.
Yes.
It was up 20 basis points in Q4 and it will go up in 2012 as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last others in the industry have kind of an above 50% goes back to shareholders and dividends and buybacks.
Are you guys thinking that way? Or do you have a set number that you would like to be at? Or is it -- are you there yet? So if you look historically we've been sort of consistent with that number.
When you look at our dividends and share buybacks over the last couple of years we've returned a fair amount to the shareholders.
With the Caliper acquisition of course the informatics acquisitions we did earlier in 2011 we put on a fair amount of debt on the balance sheet.
So our intentions probably for the next couple of quarters is to use the cash flow we generate to really delever.
So I wouldn't anticipate significant share buybacks until we get the balance sheet back to where it was prior to Caliper.
And now of course we do pay a dividend every quarter and we'll continue to do that.
And our next question comes from Peter Lawson with Mizuho securities.
Research Division</strong> Rob I'm just wondering if you could talk through some of the one-time benefits in Q4? You mentioned the Russian tender.
Is there anything else in there? And then how much did Caliper contribute? So from one-time benefits I would say rather than benefit it was in any given quarter we may have some wins.
So that was just a tender that we won so -- in any given quarter.
But I would say that's probably the one that I would spike out as having the most impact.
And the reason why it's fairly visible is because it improved the European growth rate.
And I think relative to our expectations it was much higher.
The Caliper contributions in the quarter was about $31 million so fairly consistent with what we expected.
As I said it grew about mid-teens.
And from an operating perspective we sort of alluded to this.
But because of the timing of expenses being fairly linear and because of the revenue being more back-end loaded I think we had guided to about a $0.01 benefit in the fourth quarter.
It was closer to $0.04.
So there was about a $0.03 incremental EPS improvement as a result of the higher income in Caliper.
Some of that is due to performance quite frankly and some of that due to just the timing of the revenue and expense.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then the weakness in Research I can't remember if you talked through that? Well I think the Research area continues to have a headwind because of our radiochemical business.
And so if you pull that out I think the rest of the Research business grew.
We saw good growth in our Imaging area so the Opera's continued to do well.
And of course I mentioned Caliper continues to do well.
So there's pockets of growth in the Research area but just because of the radiochemical being down again in the high-single digit range it just puts a lot of headwind on that business.
And of course the strategy there or the goal there is to use Caliper's growth to help sort of offset that and then ultimately return that to a business that can grow mid- to high-single digits.
Research Division</strong> When did you think that radiochemical business hits a base? It's hard to predict.
One of the things we are looking at is what other things can we do with that business? So it's a combination of it's going to continue to shrink relative to just sort of overall markets but we are looking at maybe other opportunities to find up some applications.
So Kevin’s here Peter maybe Kevin just wanted to spend a second because I know he's been looking at the radiochemical business so maybe just...
Yes.
I think Rob is right on relative to the decline and I think that we had some really interesting developments back about 1.5 years ago.
A scientist from Millennium actually started using the Iris imagers from Caliper to do PET scans which wasn't what they are initially intended for but we found great translation to a clinic by using PET scans in the imager.
He subsequently went to Amgen and is now creating a lot of energy around using these PET scans.
And what's really interesting is that our assets that we have here at PerkinElmer can be utilized to actually make some of these PET reagents.
And so we're looking at some of our Caliper technologies to further stimulate some of the growth opportunities in some areas that we think have some rather interesting prospects both in Research and maybe even ultimately in the clinic to offset some of the declines.
So if it's declining at a rate of about 8% 8% to 10% if we can get that down to no worse than 5% I think it's going to have a very material benefit to our overall P&amp;L because it is a very profitable part of the revenue stream.
And our next question comes from Dan Arias with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Rob in the Pharma business did the difference in growth between the developing and the developed world close at all in 4Q? Or did that basically look like it did in 3Q? And so I guess what is your view on 2012 with that dynamic in mind? So I would say it closed a little bit.
But I mean I think we continue to see that is probably the opportunity for us in the 2012 area to continue to make penetration in the APAC region.
I would say our expectations are not significant or -- in our 2012 guidance we haven't assumed that we're going to make a significant amount of progress there.
But I think that maybe presents a potential opportunity and upside for us.
Go ahead Kevin.
I'm just going to add one comment to that and that is at Caliper we never really had a very good footprint in Asia.
And so the technologies have a lot of potential there.
And I think one of the really interesting and compelling reasons for the merger is to in fact get this footprint in Asia established for Caliper.
And I think we have a meeting going on actually this week.
It's really been a productive meeting with our sales organizations and I think that merger’s going extremely well.
There's a lot of motivation a lot of excitement.
We've actually placed a senior manager to head up that Asia-Pac region.
And -- but most of those leaders are with us this week and I think that we're going to find that there's going to be a nice opportunity to start really tracking the Caliper portion which will bring an overall balance to the Asia position for the Research markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then on the OneSource business can you just give a sense of what the competitive dynamic is like there? What is the key to account wins? And I guess how much of a role does price play? And how sticky do accounts tend to be? So I think the competitive dynamics have always been fairly fierce there from the standpoint of there's a couple large instrument players who compete on most of the OneSource opportunities.
I think the competitive dynamics start with probably who has the experience and who had sort of the capabilities to do this.
And I think generally that's why at least historically we've done quite well in that because I think we were sort of early out of the gate and sort of multi-vendor service.
And so I think in most of these tenders we obviously have references and a lot of customers that we can point to.
So I think that in a lot of cases I'm not sure if price is that significant quite frankly because generally the discussion with the customer is really around availability and uptime.
So while that ultimately converts to productivity for the customer it's not necessarily from the standpoint is we're doing it cheaper it's just that because we put engineers on site we can guarantee 2- or 4-hour turnaround or uptime as compared to an OEM that might say 24- or 48-hour turnaround.
So that's really -- it's really improved productivity in the lab as compared than necessarily sort of cost reduction.
And I guess the answer to your other question is we -- generally it seems to be fairly sticky.
If you're doing a good job they have a tendency to keep you around because it can be fairly high switching costs.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I guess one last one for Andy.
I don't know if I missed it but did you give the currency impact for 4Q? And I guess can you just parse out what you're looking for from FX next year? Yes it was about 200 basis point of headwind where we think that's going to be pretty much throughout -- flat in the fourth quarter 200 basis points for the full year 2012 about the same in the first quarter.
It won't have a significant impact to the bottom line maybe $0.01 or so if we see the rates where they are today.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Willoughby with Cleveland Research.
I was wondering on the Diagnostics business if you could break out or give us an idea of how much of that business you consider from developed markets versus emerging since they obviously have the different growth rates? Yes.
So I would say the emerging markets right now is probably about 20% and the developed markets right now about 80%.
Okay.
And then given that you're -- been going against tough comps in your Service business do you expect that business to kind of go back into the mid-single digits in 2012? Yes.
Our expectation for Service would be to return to sort of mid-single organic growth.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the mid-single digit growth outlook you guys outlined for Medical Imaging this year I just want to kind of square up a couple of things.
We obviously have an outlook for new orders from the major imaging companies that is probably flat to negative.
And so I just want to make sure that it's fair to say that with that in context the balance of your business can go grow closer to double digits? Yes.
I think clearly a higher growth is coming from nonmedical and the CMOS business the acquisition we made.
But having said that our Medical business we still expect to grow slightly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so that's and by slightly I think you said earlier mid-single digit.
I just want to make sure I had that right? No I think mid-single for the total business.
I think the way to think about it the medical side is probably sort of low-single and the nonmedical and the CMOS is higher sort of high-single or low-double.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then in terms of just the mix benefit from -- or the margin benefit from the Caliper integration versus the new assets from your line of softwares so I'm just trying to figure out the importance of one versus the other in terms of driving better operating margins this year? So in the case of Q4 Caliper was very significant again because it was a timing issue.
I think if you look at let's say the full quarter then I think Caliper is probably going to be in 2012 neutral to our operating margins.
And of course they are sort of growing into their scale if you will.
So our expectation is for 2012 the operating performance of Caliper will be maybe equal to or slightly better than the corporate average.
So that the benefit from an acquisition perspective is more on the informatics standpoint from a mix point of view.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then lastly maybe a big picture question on your line of software obviously you guys have a lot of new assets there.
And maybe -- if we think about developing those products into more combined offering what kind of a time line should we think about before you think you have a more integrated offering for those types of products and then in concert with the OneSource business you have? Well we've actually got some pilots that were actually going on right now with a couple of select customers.
And so assuming those go well I think we could have something in sort of the latter part of 2012.
At this time there are no questions queued.
I'd like to hand it back to Mr.
Rob Friel.
Thank you for your questions and continuing interest in PerkinElmer.
I just -- so as we enter 2012 we believe we're very well positioned to drive growth and excellent financial returns through our strength and capabilities innovative offerings and continued focus on margin expansion.
In addition I feel extremely great about our ability to continue to make a dramatic impact on Human Environmental Health with the ultimate goal of significantly improving life expectancy as well as the quality of life for everyone around the globe.
With that let me thank you again for joining us today and I wish you all a great evening.
This call is now adjourned.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the PerkinElmer First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Maria and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions]  I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Dave Francisco Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good afternoon and welcome to the PerkinElmer First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
With me on the call are Robert Friel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Wilson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
If you have not received your copy of our earnings press release you may get one from the Investors section of our website at perkinelmer.com or from our toll-free investor hotline at (877) PKI-NYSE.
Please note this call is being webcast live and will be archived in our website until May 10 2012.
Before we begin we need to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor Statement that we've outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings.
Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views only as of today.
We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements in the future even if our estimates change.
So you should not rely on any of today's forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date after today.
During this call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to the non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available as an attachment to our earnings press release.
To the extent we use non-GAAP financial measures during this call but are not reconciled to GAAP in that attachment we will provide reconciliations promptly.
I'm now pleased to introduce the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PerkinElmer Rob Friel.
Thanks Dave.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
I'm pleased to report that we had another very good quarter in which we delivered strong financial results while making excellent progress against our 2012 strategic priorities.
During the first quarter we grew adjusted revenue 16% year-over-year delivering better than expected growth despite very difficult comps from the first quarter of last year particularly in Environmental Health which grew 17% organically in the first quarter of 2011.
In the first quarter of this year Human Health increased adjusted revenue by 27% due to the addition of Caliper and solid organic growth from Diagnostics and Medical Imaging.
Environmental Health grew by 6% reflecting notable contributions from our inorganic analysis offerings plus strong end market drivers such as water and chemical analysis.
Organically our revenue grew 6% with Human Health up 9% and Environmental Health up 3%.
Our continued focus on improving our operational efficiencies and expanding our operating margins enabled us to exceed our plans for earnings per share in the quarter and deliver adjusted EPS growth of 23%.
Across our end markets there are 2 fundamental themes that are changing the behavior and needs of our customers.
These themes uniquely position PerkinElmer to play a significant role in improving world health.
First there is an increasing interconnectivity between human and environmental health resulting in the convergence of our 3 core end markets Diagnostics Environmental and Life Sciences.
As the developed world faces increasing health care costs we can leverage our complementary capabilities in these markets for better outcomes and reduce cost.
We have the capabilities to aid in both understanding genetic predisposition to disease as well as helping people avoid potential environmental triggers to disease.
Additionally we can aid in identifying diseases they're always possible and help discover more effective targeted therapies.
The second overarching theme is that as the developing world continues to grow rapidly it is demanding greater access to health care.
While many of these developing countries today are focused on necessities such as access to clean air and water and safe food the rising middle class is demanding improved living standards.
This will cause many countries to require advanced medical capabilities such as early disease screening or diagnostic tests.
Today there is a great need to serve these customers across the increasing level of the requirements and spanning virtually every region of the globe.
PerkinElmer's extensive global channel and footprint enables us to address these needs head-on.
We have a unique ability to tailor our technologies for the developed world and then bridge them into the emerging markets.
While we're well-positioned to leverage these 2 macro themes to improve global health we cannot stand still.
Critical to our success is our ability to apply our knowledge and expertise to develop cutting-edge innovations that solve customer needs.
In that regard during the quarter we introduced several innovative new products targeting our core end markets.
These included the HER2Sense preclinical imaging agent which supports breast cancer discovery research.
The Panthera-Puncher for the handling of neonatal blood spots.
An Ensemble for Biology a suite of informatics applications intended to serve as an integrated biology workflow for use in research and development as well as in quality assurance and control.
Additionally I'm pleased with how well our recent acquisitions performed in the quarter.
Our teams are making excellent progress in driving smooth integrations including not only streamlining processes and creating greater efficiencies but equally as important bringing forward the best of both cultures and combining them together as one entity.
And particularly the former Caliper Life Science business performed very well as revenue growth accelerated from the strong performance in 2011.
The Life Sciences and Technology team has done a fantastic job across all aspects of the integration including global training of the sales force accelerating customer connectivity and assessing opportunities to maximize the combined global footprint which should only increase efficiencies but facilitate innovation which of course was a cornerstone of Caliper's culture.
In addition despite difficult comparisons we continue to see excellent traction with our OneSource Laboratory Services offerings especially as customers in emerging territories look to drive improved workflow in asset management in their laboratories.
In summary I'm very pleased with our strong start to the year and feel the organization is executing well against our priorities.
Looking ahead we maintain our cautious outlook on the macroeconomic environment.
As such we continue to forecast the similar demand profile to what we experienced in the first quarter but with lower expectations for Europe.
Accordingly we expect full year revenue growth consistent with what we communicated at the beginning of the year or in the range of 10% to 12% representing organic revenue growth in the mid-single digit range.
Regarding adjusted earnings per share given the performance in the first quarter we are raising the bottom and top end of our forecast range from $1.98  to $2.04 to $2 to $2.05.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon everyone.
As Rob mentioned I'll provide some additional color on our end markets and our first quarter results and following the prepared remarks we'll open it up for question.
We are pleased with our strong start to 2012 delivering another solid quarter of growth in revenue and adjusted earnings per share.
Revenue for the first quarter increased by 14% and organic revenue increased by 6% as compared to the same period last year.
Adjusted revenue for the quarter increased by 16% as compared to the first quarter of 2011.
By segment organic revenue increased by 9% and 3% in our Human Health and Environmental Health segments respectively.
By geography organic revenue in the Americas grew low-single digits.
Europe was up mid-single digits and Asia grew low-double digits.
We were particularly pleased with our performance in Europe given the economic uncertainty in that region.
Additionally we experienced continued strong demand from emerging territories with organic revenue growth in the BRIC countries up over 20%.
Looking at organic revenue by product category.
Recurring revenue which includes reagents consumables and service grew mid-single digits in the quarter while instrument and components grew at a high-single-digit rate despite cycling up against mid-teens growth in the first quarter of 2011.
The stronger-than-expected growth in instruments and components was partially due to favorable shipment timing in the period.
From an end market perspective PerkinElmer's Human Health segment represented approximately 50% of total revenue in the quarter where we served 2 end markets.
Diagnostics which represented 27% of total revenue and Research which represented 23% of total revenue Organic revenue from our Diagnostics business increased to a low-double-digit rate in the first quarter with notable contributions for both our Screening and Medical Imaging businesses.
In our Screening business we experienced solid demand across all major segments of the portfolio.
This business continues to benefit from the stabilization of U.S.
birthrate estimated to be flat year-over-year in the quarter as well as expansion of our prenatal newborn and infectious disease screening solutions in key regions outside the US.
Our Medical Imaging business also experienced broad-based growth across all the key technologies and applications in the period.
Traditional medical diagnostic imaging offerings generated strong with additional contribution from our CMOS imaging technology particularly related to mammography and surgical applications.
Furthermore our therapeutic and nonmedical applications also contributed to the strong performance in the period.
Organic revenue in our Life Sciences and Technology business grew mid-single digit in the first quarter.
As a reminder LST is comprised of our research and Caliper Life Science businesses.
As Rob mentioned within LST we saw robust demand for our In Vivo Imaging systems including the legacy FMT imaging and fluorescent agent offerings as well as the recently launched Caliper Spectrum CT imaging system with advanced optical features enabling highly efficient multimodal invivo imaging.
PerkinElmer now provides the most complete solution for non-invasive animal imaging providing researchers the ability to understand biology in the physiological context.
Additionally we experienced strong growth on our front-end high throughput sample preparation systems supporting enhanced workflow for next-generation sequencing analysis with our complete highly flexible solutions to run multiple chemistries to support all sequencing instruments.
Furthermore we experienced continued demand for our suite of radiometric detection equipment that has been primarily utilized for assisting the continued efforts in Japan identifying and remediating nuclear contamination resulting from last year's earthquake and tsunami.
Turning to Environmental Health which also represented 50% of our total revenue in the first quarter we served 3 end markets.
Laboratory services which represented 23% of total revenue; environmental and safety which represented 18% of total revenue; and industrial which represented 9% of total revenue.
During the quarter we experienced low-single digit organic revenue growth across all 3 market segments as each cycled up against double-digit organic revenue growth comparables from the prior year.
As Rob discussed within Environmental Health we saw strong demand for our full suite of inorganic analysis solutions particularly for the analysis of trace metal content and contaminants for environmental applications in water and soil.
Additionally continue to drive further penetration of our OneSource Multi-Vendor Service into emerging markets with some key early-stage wins in Brazil and China as these high-growth regions recognized the extensive benefits of our unique offering.
Now looking at our margin performance in the period.
Adjusted gross margin expanded approximately 230 basis points driven by volume leverage favorable mix robust productivity gains and the favorable impact of our businesses acquired in 2011.
Adjusted operating margins expanded approximately 160 basis points in the first quarter to 15.3%.
We were particularly pleased with our performance in the period as we were able to absorb higher acquisition-related operating expenses and expand operating margins despite an approximately 160 basis points margin expansion performance achieved in the first quarter of 2011.
As stated previously we are planning additional productivity investments for the balance of 2012 and we believe we'll further solidify our ability to achieve our stated objective of high-teens operating margins by 2014.
By segment adjusted operating margins in our Human Health business for the quarter were 20.4% representing an increase of approximately 200 basis points as compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Our Environmental Health segment delivered adjusted operating margins of 14.4% representing an increase of approximately 30 basis points.
The combination of volume leverage favorable mix and productivity gains across the company contributed to the strong performance delivered by both segments.
GAAP operating income from continuing operations was $22.1 million in the first quarter of 2012 versus $27.2 million in the first quarter of 2011.
For the first quarter our GAAP tax rate was approximately 6.3% and on a non-GAAP basis our adjusted tax rate was 25% which is slightly higher than the guidance communicated in February.
However we expect the full year to be approximately 24%.
GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2012 was $0.19 compared to GAAP earnings per share of $0.24 in the first quarter of 2011 primarily due to higher intangible amortization and purchase accounting adjustments related to acquisitions completed throughout 2011.
Our adjusted EPS was $0.43 in the first quarter of 2012 up 23% from the prior year and exceeding our guidance for the quarter of $0.39 to $0.41.
Our weighted average diluted share count for the quarter first quarter of 2011 was approximately 114.1 million shares and our ending share count was approximately 113.4 million shares.
Turning to balance sheet.
We finished the first quarter with approximately $934 million of debt and approximately $145 million of cash.
Looking at our cash flow performance for the quarter.
Operating cash flow from continuing operations was $15.3 million as compared to $47.3 million in the first quarter of 2011 due primarily to a $17 million contribution to our U.S.
defined benefit pension plan and the timing of approximately $13 million of tax items in both the current and prior year periods.
While we did see an increase in receivables we believe this was primarily related to our strong finish to the quarter.
We still expect to deliver greater than 100% of free cash flow to net income for the year and believe our 2012 first half will be in line with our historical cash flow performance.
In summary we are pleased with our financial performance for the first quarter.
14% reported revenue growth 6% organic revenue growth approximately 160 basis points of adjusted operating margin expansion leading to 23% growth in adjusted earnings per share.
And now I'd like to discuss our second quarter and full year 2012 guidance in a bit more detail.
As Rob mentioned consistent with our views from early in the year we remain cautious regarding macroeconomic conditions.
As such we are forecasting a similar demand profile to what we experienced in the first quarter of 2012 but with somewhat lower expectations for Europe.
We continued to expect full year 2012 reported growth of 10% to 12% and organic revenue growth to be mid-single digits or in the range of 4% to 6%.
For the second quarter we expect adjusted revenues to be in the range of $530 million to $540 million with organic revenue to be mid-single digits.
Regarding adjusted operating margins we expect to continue to expand margins in the range of 75 to 100 basis points for the year.
As previously mentioned we are deploying investments throughout the balance of the year in support of our multi-year productivity initiatives that will be absorbed within our full year target for adjusted operating margin expansion.
Bringing all these factors together we are raising our full year adjusted earnings per share for 2012 from our previously announced range of $1.98 to $2.04 to a new range of $2 to $2.05 representing growth of 9% to 12% over the prior year.
Additionally taking into consideration the items just discussed we expect adjusted earnings per share for the second quarter to be in the range of $0.47 to $0.49 representing growth of 9% to 14% as compared to the second quarter of 2011.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
I'll turn the call back over to Dave.
Thanks Andy.
Operator at this time we'd like to open the call to questions please.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from the line of Dan Brendan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> There's been some conflicting commentary thus far in the earnings season from some of your instrument peers regarding pharma spending on instruments in the first quarter.
Just wondering if you could maybe start off discussing what type of spending you saw from large pharma customers this quarter on instrumentation.
Whether there was any evidence of kind of different pacing throughout the quarter? I would say when you look at Pharma and it's difficult to characterize all the companies as sort of one entity but I think what we see is against the backdrop of further consolidation outsourcing and I would say modest R&amp;D spending is probably 3 or 4 trends that impact our business.
The first trend and one that's probably been going on for some time is this move from a small molecule to large molecule.
And so what we see is that benefits us in the area of microfluidics in a lot of for imaging products probably puts a little pressure on the high throughput screening readers.
I think on balance it probably provides us a bit of a benefit but I think that's a trend.
Again if you look at overall probably a slight benefit to us but affects different product lines.
There's clearly a focus on more companion diagnostics in epigenetics.
I think that's another area where it sort of helps us in the microfluids in our tissue imaging and some of our reagents.
And then of course the continued drive to outsource and drive productivity in your labs helps us in the areas of services in informatics and in developing countries.
So I think when you look at the trends that are occurring within pharma some good and some bad but overall fairly positive for us with our portfolio with the exception of of course we've got the RAD reagents that continue to get some drag as people move away from that.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe just one follow-up.
In terms of your U.S.
economic customers like when you’re thinking about kind of a spending level from them as we get to the second half of the year are you building any conservatism into your own internal budgeting thinking may be there might be some slowdown in spending from the researchers as they kind of look ahead to '13 or have yet to see kind of what you're seeing from those customer base? So again similar to pharma I think when we look at the academic spending you've got to too look at sort of where they are spending it.
In our assumptions probably for the back half is overall spending is probably flat to may be down a little bit.
But more importantly it's in the areas that we provide products for them.
So particularly we're seeing a lot of interest in some of our higher end imaging like the IVIS imaging as they're doing large molecule distribution studies.
And so there's areas within academic even though the spending is slowing down that they're still spending in.
The key is obviously NGS is another one where they -- looks like they're continuing to spend.
And so I think the key for us is just making sure that we're in  the right places.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Groberg with Macquarie.
Rob maybe just on your comments around Europe you mentioned as well that there was favorable timing in your shipments.
So are you seeing anything specific right now that gives you that caution or are you just given all the macro and headlines that you read out of Europe you're being cautious? Are you seeing things kind of slow right now? No I think it's more of the latter.
I think it's just -- we continue to obviously read the headlines and view the concerns whether it's around the capital markets or just the overall funding levels of the government.
We do expect that at some point that's going to impact demand in Europe.
We didn't see it in the first quarter as you know we didn't see it in the fourth quarter.
And I would say to a large extent the timing of shipments that Andy talked about was not necessarily specific to Europe.
I would say that was more of a global phenomenon.
But Europe again did pretty well for us but we do think at some point we'll see a slow down there.
When were the timing of shipments? I mean just because you highlighted it -- there must have been -- was that in a particular business or what was that? We had a very strong month 3 Jon.
And it was really I've mentioned it more in conjunction with the receivable bill that we saw in the quarter.
So I think we feel good about our ability to collect that in the second quarter but there was a bit of an increase in the receivable balance in the first quarter.
I think the linearity in the second quarter is probably going to be a little more spread evenly but we did see a very strong March.
Okay.
And if I could just one more.
You heard kind of conflicting things around emerging markets as well.
I think you said your BRIC countries had 20% growth.
Can you maybe just talk about which businesses were driving the growth and what you saw there? I would say we saw a pretty broad base.
Our view is China was up 20% again another strong quarter from there.
So we're not seeing the contraction in the emerging markets.
Brazil and South America were strong for us as well.
I would say we saw a little bit of a slowdown in Eastern Europe but I think that was a comp issue as compared to economic phenomena.
So our growth in emerging markets continues to be pretty much across the board.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Lawson with Mizuho Securities USA.
Research Division</strong> Rob just with the guidance to maintain full year top line guidance you mentioned Europe being weak.
What's the offset from Europe? And then based on kind of the lower Q2 guidance and revenues what's makes up the delta in the second half? First of all let me just sort of clarify with regard to the second quarter we're still talking about mid-single digit growth so we're not really talking about changing that.
And again relative to the full year we're still at a mid-single digits.
So we're basically holding the guidance.
I think the only thing we're saying is whilst 6% was a little better than we thought in the first quarter we do think that Europe will slow down here a little bit.
So I think that's fundamentally what we're saying is we're not saying let's take the 6% in the first quarter and assume that continues through the whole year.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then the fact that Europe's slow for the rest of the year what's the offset is that coming from Asia? Well we are just saying that in our assumptions we are assuming that Europe slows down a little bit relative to the first quarter.
We are assuming Peter that our second third and fourth quarter European performance is in line with our expectations but not at the level we saw in the first quarter.
So overall our full year guidance that's why it hadn't changed dramatically.
And by the way we haven't given second quarter guidance until today.
So there is a -- that's new news for today.
Research Division</strong> And then the higher OpEx from particularly R&amp;D is that coming from the Caliper? Or is there something else in there? Yes Caliper spent a higher percentage of revenue on R&amp;D than PerkinElmer and we're maintaining that high level of R&amp;D.
Your next question comes from the line of Quintin Lai with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> With respect to OneSource you talked about even moving out to the emerging markets.
Rob as you do so how are the margins for the services business in those areas compared to the western markets? And do you need to have a build out more technicians? How does that how do you scale? Yes I think that's a fair assumption.
As we go into new markets we need to build in most cases we're building the capacity ahead of the revenue.
And so I think that's an investment we're making we recognize we need to be where our customers are and sort of alluded to before we continue to see the pharmaceutical and biotech companies move into those areas with their R&amp;D spending.
So I think initially there will be a lower margin in those areas as we build out the capabilities.
But those things can scale relatively quickly.
Research Division</strong> And with respect to free cash flow Andy could you kind of go over it again because the impacts in Q1 and then how you expect that to -- the full year to be again? Sure.
Within the first quarter we had 2 significant items that impacted the year-over-year comparisons.
One was we made a contribution to our defined benefit plan of $17 million.
We also had some tax items that impacted the quarter by about $13 million.
So that's really the difference between 2011 2012.
There was a little bit of a receivable build days for both receivables and inventory were pretty consistent year-over-year.
But given the  shipment linearity we did see a bit of a build in receivables more so than we wanted.
We think the first half will be in line with past years and we still believe we'll generate more than 100% of free cash to net income for all of 2012.
Your next question comes from the line up Zarak Khurshid.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Zarak Khurshid of Wedbush Securities.
First I guess on Caliper can you break out the contribution there? I think you mentioned that it accelerated.
What's driving that? How fast did it grow and can you speak to kind of the relative strength of IVIS versus microfluidics and some of the drivers of the acceleration? So with regard to the contribution I'll with that and Kevin's actually here so I'll ask him to drill in to some of the performance from so a product line perspective.
I think as I mentioned in my prepared remarks if you look at Caliper in 2011 they grew and I think it was sort of mid-teens.
Actually for the first quarter they did a little bit better than that.
And the operating margins we had stated that through the year there was a plan that they would get to the PerkinElmer average by the end of the year and I would say based on the first quarter we're actually tracking ahead of that plan but with regard to the specifics I'll ask Kevin to comment on that.
Zarak we actually have 3 different applications areas that have been very hot.
One is NextGen Sequencing the second is biotherapeutics and vaccines and the third is imaging.
And the imaging is primarily the IVIS imagers and that grew double-digit I'd say low double-digit.
And we acquired that business unit about 5 years ago 6 years ago.
And it's really been performing at that mid-teen growth level ever since we acquired it.
So it's been a really good ramp and it's been very consistent even though a lot of that is going to academia a lot of grant writing and then there's like I think 2 400 peer-reviewed science journal articles now further support that build out.
The NextGen Sequencing and the biotherapeutics were primarily microfluidics and there we actually saw even a faster growth.
We saw more like a 20% to 25% growth and primarily we're doing sample prep in the NextGen sequencing area and we continue to build out nice quality control platforms there and we're agnostic with all the big NextGen sequencers alumina Life primarily being most of the market right now.
And then in biotherapeutics we are seeing growth in academia and pharma and interestingly it's primarily microfluidics but we also have large molecule biodistribution studies now occurring with their IVIS imagers.
So those are the primary growth areas but interestingly you might be surprised to hear their automation also did extremely well in the first quarter from Caliper and it's primarily the linkage up with NextGen Sequencing with our microfluidics.
So we sell these platforms of a combination of microfluidics and automation.
So automation actually grew the fastest of all 3 segments in the first quarter.
Again very strong build out occurring in hospitals particularly children's hospitals for NextGen sequencing.
Research Division</strong> What did Caliper do for the first quarter? Can you break it out was it $40 million? It's approximately $40 million right.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Leonard with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> Andy is there any way to quantify or normalize what the impact of the timing benefit was in the quarter on the total revenue growth rate? It was probably less than 1% but it was not immaterial so I would say 1% or less.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And given that one of your partners/competitors received CE marking for a newborn screening product today could you remind us what the barriers look like in that market and your competitive positioning vis-a-vis new entrants? First of all the Luminax assays do not really talk about improved performance it's really just about a workflow.
And what they got CE marked in Europe as my understanding was 4 assays.
I believe what they're doing in the U.S.
is actually cut it down to 3 now.
And so really the workflow benefit to actually do that is fairly minimal because they're still going to need one of our instruments to do IRT.
So we don't really see a real challenge for that in the U.S.
and just as a data point one of the states that ran their sort of instruments has just re-upped for us for another 3 years.
So we don't see a significant challenge as a result of the recent announcement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my final question where do you stand? I appreciate that integration process to Caliper has gone well so far but where do you stand in terms of what inning are you in in the heavy lifting pieces of that process whether they've customer facing functions or ordering activity interface things like that? I would say probably in the sixth or seventh inning I think we've made terrific progress there.
We mentioned in the last call we sort of jumped at this early November and so we had a good almost 6 months now at this.
So I think we're pretty late innings.
Maybe --  Kevin you want to comment on that a little bit? I think you're right on Rob.
I think the only thing that will be pretty exciting is we got these user group coming – user group meetings coming up Dan.
You remember those and this year is going to be really credible the first one is going to be in June.
We're expecting over 600 customers from around the world mainly PhD's and MDs.
And we've got over 60 speakers customer speakers over 2-day track and then we're going straight from there to the U.K.
and there we're expecting over 40 speakers from our customers.
And then from there to China.
I think that's going to be one of the last major integration points because the customer base here is going to be coming from both sides of PerkinElmer and Caliper and it's got an incredible linkage that we have built with informatics and we even had a lot of newborn dimensions to this.
So it's going to be a real showcase of what PerkinElmer has got to bring to the market.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Wood with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So Rob hopefully you'll let Kevin answer this.
What was Caliper's OP in the first quarter? Yes I don't know if I want to get into this because as you can imagine as we integrate these together that's a little harder to trace.
I mean we can trace the revenue pretty well but I think as we start to benefit from some of these synergies all I would say is that we are ahead of the plan to reach PerkinElmer's margins by the end of the year.
If I could just make one comment.
You may recall there are contribution margins in the Caliper product line are very strong and the global footprint of PerkinElmer is really bringing in a big advantage to this overall revenue acceleration that you're seeing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at the Human Health margins.
I mean Europe up 200 basis points year-over-year and I would imagine Caliper is still dilutive given that they're coming off a very low base.
So you comment maybe on screening and imaging businesses I mean how did the absorption look in kind of the core? Yes.
So I would say you're right under the assumption that while we're seeing good progress in Caliper they're still dilutive to the Human Health margins but we are seeing very good incremental flow through in the revenue growth.
We are seeing it in the diagnostics side both on the screening because they have a tendency to be very heavily-related towards reagents.
And also in our Medical Imaging business as Andy talked about had a very good quarter with strong growth.
They also are putting a very strong incremental margins as well.
So I mean I think one of the aspects of the Human Health business is and of course Caliper now complements that very nicely is those businesses have a tendency to have nice gross margins and very strong flow through on the incremental revenue.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And are you willing to Andy quantify or kind of parse out imaging versus screening.
I think you've mentioned all of Diagnostics was low-double digits can you just give us a little bit more color? We haven't historically done that.
Your next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First question was on the newborn screening business.
I was wondering if we could maybe parse out U.S.
versus x U.S.
growth in the business this quarter.
So U.S.
was positive because like we're starting to see some recovery there in births so we think we've now hopefully stabilized and actually sort of February and March timeframe we actually detect some positive growth there from births.
So we actually saw probably something in the mid-single digits in the U.S.
And outside the U.S.
it was probably more in the high single-digit to low double.
Research Division</strong> And then on the medical imaging business new flow of order rates from medical imaging from the big companies has been generally positive but also can you help us understand sort of nontraditional applications for that technology what you're seeing from an order perspective and how you expect that to play out for the rest of the year? Well sort of Andy talked about had a very good quarter and it was fairly broad base so not only on the medical diagnostic sides which again the larger players like GE but also in the nonmedical applications and of course we are also seeing strong growth from the recent acquisition that put us into the CMOS technology.
So I think almost across every aspects of that business we saw a good growth in the quarter.
They were up almost every aspect double-digit in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Last one for me is just on the margins.
Obviously a pretty solid operating margin versus at least my numbers.
And then if we look back sequentially to the last to fourth quarter last year you also had a really solid number.
So if we look at sort of how you're guiding this year with 100 basis up to 100 basis points of operating margin improvement how should we think about kind of the pacing of that improvement especially given the fourth quarter comp you have on margins? I think we feel like that the 75 to 100 is a prudent way to go out now.
I think we had a very good performance in the first quarter.
We did see some licensing revenue that probably helped us 30 or so basis points in the first quarter.
I would say that we think it's going to be fairly ratably grown over the second third quarters maybe a little bit less in the fourth.
But keep in mind that we are investing in some of the longer-term productivity initiatives so there will be a little bit of a back-and-forth here.
But I would say at the end of the year we feel pretty good about hitting that 75 to 100 and probably closer to the higher end of that range.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Brokmeier with Group.
Research Division</strong> Kevin you talked a little bit about the growth of microfluidics and the sample prep for NGS is that largely been in the higher end sequencers how's your penetration of desktop sequencers' sample preps compared to that larger higher-end platforms? Interestingly it's still primarily on the higher end because what you have there's a lot of folk in these core labs would buy the sequencer and then as they started to get sample flows coming in that would then start to bottleneck to your sequencer and that's where they would move in with the automation in the microfluidics.
But I should point out that the same bottleneck is going to occur with the tabletops and microfluidics really play to the hand of the smaller sample size as well as the speed that's going to be needed for these tabletops.
So I think we are well-positioned with microfluidics.
In fact I think microfluidics was overkill for many of the large sequencers.
We're really well-positioned as the tabletops starts to command sample flow.
And I think that's the real question now how much sample flows going to come in and when.
But we are starting to see that he's going to command and when.
But we're starting to see that movement already so we feel good for the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly you guys talked about a strong finish to the year.
How much of the revenue was back-end loaded and was that really just sort of some onetime revenue boost at the end? Or should that sort of fall through at the beginning of second quarter? No you're talking about the strong finish to the quarter? Research Division</strong> Right.
No that was really across the board we just saw an acceleration through the month of March.
We see it every once in a while.
Some of our customers actually asked for us to ship early in March just based on their buying needs.
So I would probably look as we go out it will be more normalized and the linearity will be more similar to prior years.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Arias with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Rob or Kevin I guess on Caliper I understand the comments you just made about the numbers getting a little blurry as you integrate the business but if I could I know at one point the outlook for margin expansion over the next few years was sort of just under 2/3 OpEx improvement and then 1/3 gross margin improvement or so.
Is that still how you’re looking at that improvement opportunity there? Are you talking about Caliper specifically or PerkinElmer? Research Division</strong> I am.
Caliper specifically.
Yes you know what? I think that the interesting part now when you merge it's as if -- I think the OpEx opportunities start to do get blurred.
But the footprint of the revenue acceleration that occurs with the globalness of PerkinElmer's footprint commercial footprint is really going to allow us to get there sooner.
So you might actually start to see this OpEx move faster.
But I think with that said we continue to launch a lot of new innovation and that's really where we got our gross margin expansion was primarily through new innovation and when we bring that out like you heard Rob mention earlier the new Spectrum CT these products command a much higher gross margin because they're bringing a lot more to the table.
So I do think we're going to continue to keep pace with gross margin but I think it will be outpaced 2/3 1/3 by the OpEx because of the leverage that we're getting in the synergies of the merger.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess you guys have been somewhat active on the legal side of things lately at least as it relates to mass spec just in terms of some the brands for IP should we be thinking about modeling a bit more in litigation costs just given that you have got multiple suits ongoing here? No I mean I don't think -- we're not expecting that to be a material cost.
I mean you mentioned we've got some interesting IP in a number of areas and we just think it's appropriate that we sort of defend that.
But I don't think there's going to be material litigation costs.
Your next question comes from the line of Derik De Bruin with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Andy could you were going a little fast when you were talking about the tax rate could you just go over that the tax rate in the quarter? The tax rate for 25% in the quarter adjusted tax rate.
And for the year it's 24%.
So if you're modeling out I would use 24% for the next 3 quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it was a little high in Q1 because of what? It was basically just distribution of profits.
It will fluctuate a little bit just because...
Research Division</strong> And so -- Kevin since I got you there I just wanted to ask a question also to the whole team there.
Kevin I caught the tail end of your talk at AGBT and you were talking about integrating some of the GeneSifter technologies and Geospiza technologies and the automation platform the sequencing platforms and some of the service and stuff that kind of look at light penetrating into the clinic with this.
I guess can you kind of give us some -- kind of go back and kind of address that? And basically kind of outline how you see this going in and I guess you guys how are you going -- what are you doing for like a go-to-market in terms of the clinical approach? And how are you approaching the -- how you're approaching the obviously the clinical sequencing market.
That's kind of a broad question but I was intrigued by your talk.
Yes.
Absolutely Derik.
I think one of the key points here is just in general how fast will Next Gen Sequencing penetrate the clinical market? And I think certainly the Roche Alumina situation is in my mind potentially a telling sign around the belief systems around NGS.
We see it very much right now being utilized in children's hospitals and some cancer hospitals.
And they typically will have a cap or plio-type approach and they will be looking at Sanger sequencing to correlate in a kind of a parallel lab approach.
The economics and the time of answer as well as the answers you can get by multiplexing are very compelling for NGS.
We see that as being game-changing compelling.
But the real challenge I think is converting these research reports that you're getting today into medical reports.
And that is an adoption challenge that you saw with Sanger sequencing it took really quite a few number of years.
What we are encouraged by we have collaborators.
We have a couple of tracks on this and investors will be invited to attend the user group meetings.
But what we were encouraged by is that many of the folks that ran these Sanger labs that were able to get medical reports and get adoption from the clinicians are now being moved into these NGS labs and they're actually starting with the medical report working backward into the workflows.
Now where we participate is in the sample prep and we actually believe that the sample prep is worth so much of the variability is coming from relative to NGS.
Primarily because you got the GC bias in many different issues that you have with the samples being taken from the human and getting in them into the right kind of library to go into NGS and that's where we're trying to play.
And so GSPs for us was a real nice opportunity to bring informatics into the sample prep.
It's both a lens system as well as it can be an analysis system.
And so now what we're challenging our GSP's think tank with was helping us evolve this into medical reports.
And we're very encouraged by -- Rob and the team have acquired 3 or 4 different informatics platforms.
They have a phenomenal leader in that informatics business and we're seeing the opportunity to leverage across the informatics infrastructure to try to be the company to help migrate into more of a medical report.
So we think it's got real potential starting out in these children hospitals then we think evolving into cancer where it's more complicated.
It's not medallion-type diseases when you start dealing with cancer and I think that's where -- right now there's more pushback from the clinicians and the pathologists.
Your next question comes from line of Paul Knight with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> In the Asian markets I know there has been a lot of excitement in your groups about the 90 to 100 sales people that can leverage the Caliper product Kevin.
Is that traction occurring now in the sales effort? Yes you know Paul it's interesting.
We had one of the -- a lot of this is a cultural thing right? And I got to say we had an AIPAC meeting back about a month a month and a half ago.
And I got to tell you I've never seen a team come together so excitingly.
The folks from the PerkinElmer side were being given some amazingly disruptive products to sell.
And the folks from the Caliper side were just blown away by the competency of that Asia team and so I think there have been some challenges in certain pockets of that Asia operation historically which have been filled almost like -- hand in glove with the mergers.
I actually think that we had strong Q1 and I believe that the ability for us to continue moving products throughout Asia is probably one of the best parts of this merger.
Research Division</strong> And then Rob you had mentioned earlier on the call on analytical instruments I think inorganics or that must be your microscopy businesses is that the driver? And is Asia driving that on the environmental side? What's happening in that big analytical piece right now? Yes.
I would say probably over the last 18 to 24 months we basically almost have a whole new product line from the inorganic perspective with a number of new products that we've come out with.
That combined with the number of new products we've come out in the molecular spectroscopy area I think is really allowing us to do very well in areas like water food environmental and chemical analysis.
I would say the growth right now is probably disproportionately higher in the Pac Rim and the emerging markets.
But quite frankly I think we're seeing good growth across the globe fundamentally driven by these new products that have come out fairly recently.
Research Division</strong> And lastly Rob you were conservative about Europe on your last call and then you said that Eastern Europe was strong particularly.
Are you just continuing that tone or do you see any change in orders in other parts of Europe? Well I would say the one difference in the first quarter versus the first quarter in 2011 was we saw actually strength in Western Europe in the first quarter.
And so again we continue to be surprised to the upside by the resiliency of the European demand at least particularly with our product set.
You have a follow-up from the line of Dan Brennan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick one.
I think on your last call you discussed the U.S.
birth rate that was still flat-to-down versus the improved outlook now.
So I'm just wondering can you discuss what type of birth rate you're seeing today and help us think about the leverage for Perkins organic growth from an improving U.S.
birth rate? Well I would say I would describe it as it's stabilized.
And I just mentioned the fact in the latter part of the quarter we saw some small uptick.
I think it's probably a little early to call the turn here.
But I would say we think it's and our assumption through the year is it's going to be flattish for 2012.
If we see a little bit better that if we see some growth in the back half of the year I think that will provide us some upside.
But we're assuming sort of flat birth in the U.S.
At this time there are no further questions.
I'll turn the call back over to Rob Friel for closing remarks.
So first well thank you for your questions and continued interest in PerkinElmer.
As some of you know last week marked the 75th anniversary of PerkinElmer.
As we commemorate this important milestone we are proud of the recognition and the tremendous contributions from our employees our rich histories of scientific innovation and our commitment to serving our customers which have shaped our culture over 7 decades.
On behalf of our 7 000 employees I'm excited about continuing to significantly improve human environmental health around the world and help make life better for years to come.
With that I want to thank you and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's presentation.
All parties may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2012 PerkinElmer Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Keith and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
And with that I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Tommy Thomas Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Keith.
Good afternoon and welcome to PerkinElmer's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
With me on the call are Rob Friel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Wilson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
If you have not received your copy of our earnings press release you may get one from the Investors section of our website at www.perkinelmer.com or from our toll-free investor hotline in 1 (877) PKI-NYSE.
Please note this call is being webcast live and will be archived in our website until August 16 2012.
Before we start we need to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor Statement that we have outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings.
Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views only as of today.
We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements in the future even if our estimates change.
So you should not rely on any of today's forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date after today.
During this call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available as an attachment to our earnings press release.
To the extent we use non-GAAP financial measures during this call but are not reconciled to GAAP in the attachment we will provide reconciliations promptly.
I'm now pleased to introduce the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PerkinElmer Rob Friel.
Rob? Thanks Tommy.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
Once again we are reporting another excellent quarter in which we delivered solid financial results while making excellent progress against our strategic priorities.
During the second quarter our adjusted revenue grew 10% year-over-year adjusted operating margins expanded 240 basis points.
We generated excellent cash flow and adjusted earnings per share increased 23% which exceeded both our guidance and consensus.
We continue to be extremely pleased with how we are improving both operating efficiencies and profitability of the company while also delivering very strong top line growth.
Our ability to deliver this impressive financial performance particularly in light of the current difficult macroeconomic conditions is due to several factors.
First of all we serve many end markets that are less economically sensitive.
In addition within these markets we provide products that are critical to our customers.
Whether it is assisting in the screening of newborns helping improve the productivity of labs or keeping drinking water safe our products continue to be sought after even in an unstable global financial situation as global interest in both human and environmental health continues to grow.
And with our recent acquisitions we have further bolstered this advantage by expanding our capabilities in the areas of informatics molecular analysis imaging and sample prep positioning us well to address both current and future needs of the global human and environmental communities.
The second factor is our significant global reach and capabilities particularly in emerging markets.
As many of our products are instrumental to expanding health care services and improving environmental conditions we continue to experience strong demand for many of our products in these areas of the world where there is a focus on developing fundamental environmental and health care needs.
I'm especially pleased that our sales into the emerging markets now represents approximately 28% of our total sales and were responsible for over half of the company's total organic growth during the second quarter.
For example our China business once again showed strong growth with organic revenues increasing more than 20% and with adjusted operating margins greater than the corporate average.
China continues to be an important contributor to both our revenue and earnings growth.
In particular our Chinese diagnostic business continues to gain traction with both new and existing customers adding approximately 40 new customers in the quarter as the country increases its efforts to help combat infectious diseases such as hepatitis and HIV.
What's important to note here is that we saw a double-digit sequential organic growth and feel that we're still only in the early stages of a very big opportunity.
A major part of China's 12 5-year plan is focused on improving both human and environmental health and we believe that we are well-prepared to capitalize on this trend.
A third contributing factor is our ability to provide innovations into the marketplace by leveraging our strong detection imaging and software technologies with our extensive application knowledge.
In the first half of the year new products introduced in the last 3 years represented 22% of our total revenue and 32% of our product revenue which excludes our revenue from service.
During the second quarter we introduced a revolutionary technology that enables any sample form whether it is gas liquid or solid to be introduced into a mass spectrometer with minimal sample prep.
Our spectrum CT which combines optical imaging and 3D x-ray is enabling researchers to pursue unique strategies in oncology research.
In the informatics area we introduced the Ensemble platform which enables real-time control and automation of laboratory processes helping laboratories to decrease errors and speed the delivery of results as well as the Asset Genius which provides customers with the critical information they need to make informed decisions on lab asset deployment.
Also during the quarter we launched our new OneSource Scientific IT service which leverages the strength of our service expertise and informatics capabilities.
Customers such as Merck Resource Laboratories are now turning to Perkinelmer for this new and unique service to substantially improve the efficiencies and supportability of their lab technology and overall lab environment.
The fourth and most important factor is our people.
We would not be as well-positioned as we are today without the hard work passion and outstanding contributions of our 7 200 employees who everyday are committed to driving our growth innovation and mission to improve the health and safety of people in the environment.
It is truly an exciting time to be part of PerkinElmer.
Through the first half of this year our organic growth as of the high-end of our original guidance while our adjusted operating margins have increased by 200 basis points significantly greater than expected.
Some of the higher margin expansion was due to a more favorable mix of revenue and better profitability of the former Caliper products.
However a portion of the higher-adjusted margin expansion was a result of the retiming of some growth and productivity investments due to both uncertainties surrounding Europe and a significant amount of integration activity underway.
Due to the strong first half and the rapid integration of Caliper and our other acquisitions from last year we are planning to accelerate our spend against these initiatives in the third and fourth quarters as we continue to see great opportunity to improve the operating margin and growth profile of the company.
Even with this increased investment in the back half and the significant headwind from the stronger dollar we feel comfortable maintaining our adjusted EPS guidance of $2 to $2.05.
I would now like to turn the call over to Andy who will provide more details on the quarter and our Q3 guidance.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon.
Consistent with prior quarters I'll provide some additional color with our end markets and our second quarter results and then I'll it open up for questions.
As Rob mentioned earlier we were pleased with our performance in the second quarter delivering another solid quarter of growth in both revenue and adjusted earnings per share.
Reported revenue for the second quarter increased 9% while adjusted revenue for the second quarter increased by 10% to $532.3 million as compared to the second quarter of 2011.
Organic revenue increased 5% as compared to the same period in 2011.
This performance was at the high-end of our guidance range of $530 million to $540 million after adjusting for the negative impacts of approximately $7 million of FX headwinds arriving subsequent to the guidance we've provided following our first quarter earnings call.
For the quarter adjusted earnings per share increased 23% to $0.53 $0.05 better than the midpoint of our guidance.
By segment organic revenue increased by 4% and 5% in our Human Health and Environmental Health segments respectively.
By geography organic revenue in the Americas and Asia both grew at a high-single-digit rate while Europe declined low-single digits but within our expectations.
We experienced continued strong demand from emerging territories with organic revenue growth in the BRIC countries up high teens despite an even higher comparison in the prior year.
As Rob noted we remain pleased with our performance in China with revenues up more than 20% on a year-over-year basis despite similar growth in the prior year.
Looking at organic revenue by product category recurring revenue which includes reagents consumables and service grew high-single digits in the quarter while instruments and components grew at a low-single-digit rate when compared to the second quarter of 2011.
From an end market perspective PerkinElmer's Human Health segment represented approximately 49% of total revenue in the quarter.
We served 2 end markets in Human Health: diagnostics which represented 27% of total revenue; and research which represented 22% of total revenue.
Organic revenue from our Diagnostics business increased mid-teens during the quarter with notable contributions from both our Screening and Medical Imaging businesses.
In our Screening business we continue to experience solid demand across all major segments of the portfolio.
This business is benefiting from the stabilization of U.S.
birthrates and the expansion of our prenatal newborn and infectious disease screening solutions in key regions outside of the U.S.
We continue to see strong uptake of our portfolio in China and feel that we are well-positioned to benefit from China's 12th 5-year plan.
Our Medical Imaging business continued see broad-based growth across all key technologies and applications in the period with particular strength in traditional medical diagnostic imaging offerings.
We also saw a healthy contribution from our CMOS imaging technology primarily focused on surgical applications.
Organic revenue in our Research business declined high-single digits in the quarter the result of a difficult year-over-year comparison ongoing declines in our radio isotope offerings and softer pharma demand.
Caliper organic revenue grew mid-single digits on a difficult prior-year comparison of more than 20% and finished the first half with low-teens organic growth and operating profit ahead of our acquisition model expectations.
Our Research business continues to gain traction in new areas such as biotherapeutics NextGen sequencing and epigenetics and customer acceptance remains high as evidenced by the strong increase in our backlog as we exited the second quarter.
Moving to Environmental Health which represents 51% of total revenue in the second quarter we served 3 end markets: Industrial which represented 8% of total revenue; Environmental and Safety which  represented 18% of total revenue; and Laboratory Services which represented 25% of total revenue.
During the quarter we experienced low-single-digit organic growth in the Environmental Safety segment a low-single digit decline in the Industrial segment and high single-digit growth in the Laboratory Services business.
We were particularly pleased with our performance in China which continues to benefit from environmental applications specifically focused on inorganic analysis solutions for the analysis of metal content and contaminants in water and soil.
In addition we continue to see good acceptance in our Laboratory Service and Informatics platforms as we help our lab customers manage their critical laboratory assets and the related data output.
As Rob mentioned earlier our new OneSource Scientific IT services help customers improve the efficiency of their lab computing environment and the safety of the scientific data.
Now looking at the margin performance in the period adjusted gross margins expanded approximately 200 basis points.
This was driven by volume leverage favorable mix robust productivity gains and a favorable impact from our businesses acquired in 2011.
Adjusted operating margins expanded approximately 240 basis points in the second quarter to approximately 17%.
As Rob mentioned earlier given the significant amount of integration activity underway at the end of the first quarter and the uncertainty surrounding Europe at that time we elected to defer some of our growth and productivity investments originally slated for the second quarter.
Delayed timing of this spend contributed about 80 basis points to our strong margin expansion performance in the quarter and is expected to negatively impact second half margins as we reaccelerate our spend against these initiatives in the third and fourth quarters.
By segment adjusted operating margins at our Human Health business for the quarter were 22% representing an increase of approximately 130 basis points as compared to the second quarter of 2011.
Our Environmental Health segment delivered adjusted operating margins of 16% representing an increase of approximately 210 basis points.
The combination of volume leverage favorable mix and productivity gains across the company contributed to the strong performance delivered by both segments.
GAAP operating income from continuing operations was $49.8 million in the second quarter of 2012 versus $39.4 million for the same period a year ago.
Our GAAP tax rate for the second quarter was approximately 13%.
And on a non-GAAP basis our adjusted tax rate was approximately 23% which is slightly lower than our previous guidance communicated in April.
We now expect our tax rate for the second half to be approximately 23%.
GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations in the second quarter of 2012 was $0.29 compared to GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.26 in the second quarter of 2011.
Adjusted EPS was $0.53 in the second quarter of 2012 up 23% from the prior period and exceeding our guidance range for the quarter of $0.47 to $0.49 despite an FX headwind of approximately $0.02 per share which was partially offset by approximately $0.01 per share from the lower tax rate.
Our weighted average diluted share count for the second quarter of 2012 was approximately 114.6 million shares and our ending share count was approximately 113.6 million shares.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We finished the second quarter with approximately $911 million of debt and approximately $171 million of cash.
We continue to make progress on our delevering efforts as we exit the quarter with a debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 2.5x and a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio of approximately 2x.
Looking at our cash flow performance operating cash flow from continuing operations was $77.4 million as compared to $54.9 million in the second quarter of 2011.
We made good progress managing our working capital and cash collections in the quarter delivering greater than 118% of free cash to net income.
We believe that our second half 2012 cash conversion will be slightly below our stated goal due to increased cash taxes as a result of the settlement of certain foreign tax audits as well as higher inventory levels resulting from the move of manufacturing operations to lower cost regions.
In summary as Rob indicated we feel good about our performance in the quarter as we delivered 5% organic revenue growth approximately 200 basis -- 240 basis points of adjusted operating margin expansion and 23% growth in adjusted earnings per share.
Now I'd like to discuss our third quarter and full year 2012 guidance in a bit more detail.
Consistent with our view from earlier in the year we remain cautious regarding macro economic conditions specifically with regard of Europe and the strength of the U.S.
dollar.
As a result of current FX rates we now expect full year 2012 reported revenue growth to grow high-single digits and organic revenue growth to be in the mid single-digit range which is consistent with our original guidance provided at the beginning of the year.
Regarding adjusted operating margins we expect to expand margins above our stated range of 75 to 100 basis points for the full year.
For the third quarter we expect adjusted revenue growth of $495 million to $505 million with organic growth -- revenue growth being in the range of 3% to 5% with foreign currency headwinds of approximately 4% based on current exchange rates.
As we mentioned we are planning additional productivity and growth investments for the balance of 2012 which we believe will further solidify our ability to achieve our longer-term growth and margin expansion objectives.
These investments will have a dilutive impact on our adjusted operating margin expansion in the second half of this year and as a result we expect adjusted operating margins for the second half to expand more modestly.
Based on these assumptions we are maintaining our full-year adjusted earnings per share guidance for 2012 of $2.00 to $2.05 despite FX headwinds of approximately $0.06 per share.
Additionally we expect adjusted earnings per share for the third quarter to be in the range of $0.42 to $0.44 which assumes the negative impact of approximately $0.02 from FX headwinds.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
Keith at this time we can open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions]  Your first question is from the line of Jon Groberg from Macquarie Capital.
So can you -- just a couple of this clarification I'm trying to understand.
So on Caliper that is about $38 million last year.
Looks like you're saying about 8% acquisition that's what it did this quarter.
So it was up 5% organic and that's kind of offset with currency.
I'm just trying to understand what they did in the quarter.
Caliper was a little less -- Caliper grew mid-single digits organically.
It's a little hard to kind of break out Caliper now that it's being integrated with the larger business.
But its impact to overall PerkinElmer organic was fairly minimal this quarter.
But the rationale or the reason behind that Caliper had a very strong 20-plus percent organic growth quarter last year so it was a little bit lower.
But first half we're seeing Caliper generating about 13% organic revenue.
Okay.
And then just one other quick clarification and then -- I'm sorry one question.
I think in the past you guys have said you're basically have -- you're pretty neutral from a currency standpoint.
I remember a lot of calls.
So is that kind of changed as you've gone through this? Or is this a mix of currency? So maybe just talk about I think you said that makes impact.
I think what we talked about is that we're fairly neutral from the standpoint of revenue and expense across the various regions.
But of course what you have is the profitability.
When we talk about the currency impact think about it as just at a high-level earning.
Europe is close to 30% of our revenue and call that our profitability right? So 30% of our profitability is going through sort of 15% decline.
So as you convert that profit in Europe to dollars that's where your impact is you're converting that in a much lower rate.
Okay.
That's helpful.
I was just trying to triangulate with what could -- we had a lot of those questions in the past.
And then Rob for you that last question Europe is kind of down China seems really strong.
Can you maybe give a little bit more detail? You mentioned some diagnostic business.
Is that primarily the kind of postnatal screening or the neonatal screening I mean or what else is going on there? And can you maybe -- others are seeing a slowdown there sounds like you haven't.
Can you maybe just talk about what you're seeing and what you're outlook for those businesses? Well try not to -- we fundamentally have 2 businesses.
One we have as you said the newborn screening and that continues to grow.
But more importantly when we bought SYM-BIO in 2009 we also got a business that's involved in infectious disease so hepatitis and HIV.
And that continues to see very strong growth and continued to come out with new products there.
You may recall we talked about building out a big production capacity there so we've continued to invest there and that's contributing a big portion of the growth in China.
I would also say on the environmental side we see strong growth there as well.
So I would say mostly on the environmental side and on the diagnostic side is what's driving the over 20% growth in China.
So even in some of the more instrument-related markets like thermal analysis maybe and some of the monitoring -- environmental monitoring that for you is still very strong in China? You don't see that slowing? Yes.
I would say it's still strong.
I would say it's slowed a little bit in the second quarter.
And of course we also have some new products coming out particularly in the ICP-MS area and those sides.
So that's -- we're seeing I would say good growth in China.
It's probably slowed a little bit relative to what we saw in -- I'm talking specifically on the environmental side relative to Q4 and Q1.
Your next question is from the line of Daniel Leonard from Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> I was just hoping you could give us some flavor on the types of growth investments you're planning for the back half of the year.
Well I would put it in some category some buckets.
So I would say first of all we continue to invest in some interesting areas around detection capabilities.
So we talked about -- I talked a little bit about this sample introduction technology from Aspect[ph] so I would say that's one area.
Clearly continuing to expand out our menu in the screening area is an area that's going to get some investment here in the back half.
I think in the research area biotherapeutics and epigenetics are 2 areas that we feel very good about.
And of course we announced recently our expansion of a personal health innovation center in Hopkinton so the focus in those areas and a couple other ones.
So -- and of course informatics I would say is another that I think you'll continue to see us investing here in the back half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow-up question.
In terms of what you seeing from the pharmaceutical market is the weakness you're seeing there in the research product business is that -- is it worsening? And is your strength in the services more than enough to offset that going forward? I would say from a market perspective it's maybe worsening a little bit on the pharma side particularly in the small molecule area.
And our focus is to continue to migrate into some of these higher-growth areas like biotherapeutics epigenetics next-gen sequencing.
Obviously that was one of the big incentives or benefits of buying Caliper.
So I would say that's slowing a little bit.
I would say to be fair also in Q2 we made some switches with the Caliper integration.
We went on to SAP and a number of other things and probably that maybe cost us a little bit of growth.
And I think as Andy mentioned we've built some nice backlog.
So our expectation is that the Research business probably returns to positive growth in the back half.
Your next question is from the line of Ross Muken of ISI.
Research Division</strong> Particularly on some of your shorter cycle businesses maybe in the industrial side can you talk a bit about sort of the pacing through the quarter and what you sort of saw in the latter half? And how you think about that in sort of the context of your 3Q assumptions and sort of the full year kind of organic growth guidance? Yes.
I would say that where we saw the biggest change through Q2 was in Europe.
So as you recall Europe in Q1 for us was sort of mid-single growth.
And in Q2 it was actually a decline of low-single digits.
And so we saw that occur from sort of the April to the May timeframe and into June.
I would say since sort of mid-June to July here that's been fairly similar.
And so other than Europe I would say the trends in most of our end markets has been fairly consistent over the last couple of months.
Research Division</strong> I guess Andy on the SG&amp;A line it just seems like a heroic sort of performance there in terms of what that line is doing given all of the moving parts from the deal and the organic.
I guess I know you're putting in some investments back half of the year.
But if you sort of had to tease out the components of how you manage that Q-to-Q for the last few quarters it's been relatively flattish to modestly up.
What would sort of be the key deltas of why we're not seeing that line inflate more? Well I think we -- we've been talking about sort of productivity initiatives that we've been putting in place.
And if you really look at a lot of our ability to expand margins it's really been levering that G&amp;A base.
So as we grow we're able to basically keep our headcount fairly flat.
And obviously that translates into good margin expansion.
We did get a little bit of help from FX in the quarter.
So if you're just looking  specifically at the second quarter.
I think overall though it's really been a corporate focus on trying to make sure we're efficient with spend.
And I think that it's taking hold.
And over the last several quarters we've continued to see that gain traction.
And I think we've got some spending that we're going to be doing some heavier lifting over the next 2 to 3 quarters that we think will further enhance that as we look on the gross margin lines to move things move some of the manufacturing from developed -- developing economies as well as really leveraging more at the back office and in certain parts of the world.
So I think we feel good about the progress some heavy lifting left to do but a lot more opportunities as well.
And I think we still feel pretty good about our ability to get to the high-teens operating margin by '14.
Your next question is from the line of Daniel Brennan from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering first just on your kind of instrument business I'm particularly hearing from some other peers about signature levels rising up.
I know you've already commented on some of the pacing in the quarter but maybe in the -- your call specifically in the instrument side there maybe -- see any change there in the dynamic about CFO-type levels being more inclined to kind of wait on spending the money? I would say that's a trend that has been around for at least a couple quarters.
I would say the one area where we are seeing some changes on the instrument side is some more aggressive pricing by some of the competition.
So I would say that's for us that seems to be more of a recent change.
But as far as higher-level approvals within our customer base I think that's been around for a couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe just on the big user group meeting that you had up up in your headquarters in England attended by over 500 customers.
Is there anything kind of notable feedback you can share in terms of whether it be products or applications that seem to be in the highest demand? Anything kind of surprise you from detraction maybe coming out of the meeting just some of the highlights from that were.
Sure.
Why Kevin's here that was sort of Kevin's meeting to some extent so maybe I ask him to comment on some of the takeaways from that.
Yes Den it was actually well-attended and we had a meeting in U.K.
the following week as which was well-attended.
And we had over 800 customers and I would say the next-gen sequencing biotherapeutics as well as epigenetics which PerkinElmer is uniquely qualified to address because it's really how the environment is affecting health.
Those topics seem to really resonate.
We actually had to track as well on informatics and that was -- the rooms were completely full on informatics.
And I think the combination of those 4 topics was about let's say 65 presentations from customers really created -- we think good demand for the second half as well as next year and with us opening up the new Personalized Help Innovation Center we think that there's great momentum for a lot of these newer hotter markets in the positioning that we have inside of them.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Maybe can I just sneak one more in.
Just in terms of the gross margin in the quarter.
I know you mentioned you had some mixed benefit but seems they're up really significantly year-over-year maybe.
Can you just flesh out specifically again like what the key driver was at that expansion? Yes.
Of the 200 raised points about 80 of that was just the higher gross margins of the acquisitions we acquired in 2011.
So they contributed 80 basis points.
And then the rest of it was strictly around productivity with some of the initiatives I talked about earlier within the factory.
And I think that's -- we did also see in the quarter a bit of an increase from a mix perspective and some licensing revenues as well as some informatics revenues which are higher gross margin than in the average.
Your next question is from the line of Daniel Arias with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on Environmental Health.
I guess Rob can you talk broadly about your applied market customer base and the overall tone that you have there right now? We sort of kind of think of those markets as pretty secular and pretty steady over time but there has been some discussion about maybe some fluctuations in certain areas.
So I guess how are your food and beverage and environmental safety customers thinking about purchasing in this environment? I guess how much visibility do you have there? Yes so I would say in this quarter we saw a much more severe bifurcation between emerging markets and developed markets.
I think if you look historically as you mentioned the difference might have been 200 basis points between the growth we saw in developed world versus emerging.
This year we saw a much greater differentiation.
So clearly in the emerging markets they're continuing to spend particularly in the environmental area and I would say also in the food safety area.
We saw a little bit of a pullback or let's say less growth in the developed world.
So that's how I would characterize some of the change you're seeing now.
And of course Europe is a big part of that.
So that's a large contributor to it.
But we did see a much larger gap between the 2 the developed and the emerging markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Andy did I hear you say that U.S.
was up in the teens in the quarter? And if so can you comment just a bit broadly on that strength? Well it was -- the U.S.
was actually up high-single digit in the quarter.
And we had some strong informatics revenue in the quarter which was a piece of that.
But overall it was a very solid quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe one more for Kevin.
You mentioned some momentum in next-gen sequencing.
I guess when you think of the Caliper business do you think that the pieces are in place there for the move to clinical sequencing and taking medical genomics to the next level as they say? Yes Dan.
I think that we are still investing in this area.
We were watching carefully the evolution of kind of the centralized next-gen sequencer to the benchtop and looking at accuracy and precision rates but most importantly we're seeing that sample prep is playing an important role in that overall accuracy so we are continually -- PerkinElmer's is continuing to make strong investments in sample preparation not only to improve the precision to help it get in to the clinic more productively but also the sample sizes in general are getting smaller.
We had many physicians at our user conference talking about circulating tumor cells as well as fine-needle aspirate biopsies as opposed to large biopsies.
And as these sample sizes get smaller I think our microfluidic estate is well-positioned to really help the sample preparation of these smaller samples and eliminate biosnisis[ph which has been a big issue which is important for getting into the clinics.
So I think we're -- we've got strategic relationships with all of the major NGSs and we have -- now we have an informatics platform from Geospiza that's really focused on trying to create medical reports as opposed to research reports from the data.
So I think both on informatics and sample prep we're well-positioned but we'll continue to make investments as we want to improve accuracy rates.
Your next question is from the line of Isaac Ro from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you could first help me maybe touch on the pace of business during -- in Europe during the quarter.
I think there's been some debate there across the industry regarding whether or not conditions there really deteriorated or sort of steadily kind of pressured environment.
So any color you could put on the European-pacing across the various businesses would be great.
Well first of all when I talk about our Europe business we actually had -- our diagnostic business continued to grow.
So what we saw -- we actually saw growth on the diagnostic side.
Where we saw a decline was sort of I would say more in the instrument-based businesses so both environmental and the research side.
And as I mentioned before we did see -- now of course we grew in the first half as well as I said mid-single digits.
So we did see fairly sort of steady sort of consistent decline beginning sort of early Q2 sort of in the early June.
And then like I said it sort of stabilized a little bit and our sense is at least through the first couple of weeks here in the third quarter it's more stable.
So that is how I would describe our experiences in Europe.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then maybe just secondly on informatics Kevin can you maybe comment on one more detail regarding how product integration there is progressing and sort of the overall trend that you're seeing in the OneSource business as well? Yes.
I think overall we're very encouraged by the acquisitions that have been put together.
First of all that integration is ahead of schedule.
And I think there's a strong focus now towards applications using the systematic capabilities that are somewhat unique.
And as I think Andy and Rob both mentioned there's some really nice -- in OneSource new technology new informatics that really help customers with utilization rates of their assets and to better optimize those investments.
And I think both in OneSource as well as future application opportunities and next-gen sequencing and even biotherapeutics we're seeing nice integration opportunities with some of the Caliper product lines with the informatics.
And so overall I would say that's going very well and we see it as a major piece of the future growth profile for PerkinElmer.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then last one for me just certainly for either Rob or Andy.
Can you guys maybe update us on the latest thoughts from the board regarding future management incentives that might go in providing ROIC-based metrics? I think that's one area where a lot of investors would have a pretty positive response if we got a path there.
Well I would just say Isaac generally we -- to the extent we're going to do anything on incentive comp we would do that sort of on the latter part of the year.
So I would say no current plans to change it.
But again those discussions usually occur at our December board meeting.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair to say it's a possibility? Or...
I know I think it is a possibility.
We've had some discussions about it but I would say nothing definitive at this point.
Your next question is from the line of Jon Wood with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you've got about a $4 million benefit from I guess deferring some of the investments in the second quarter.
So my question is are you actually incrementally stepping up in the second half? Or you're just basically adding back that benefit you got in the second quarter if you will? I would think of it more as sort of adding back the benefit in the second quarter.
And again we'll sort of evaluate as we go along.
I mean that's the plan right now into Q3 and we'll sort of reassess that depending on how we go in Q3.
But I would think of it as sort of taking it from the first half and moving into the second.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Andy you commented that acquisitions were 80 bps in gross margins.
Do you have that impact on OP margins? It was negative 30 basis points on operating margins.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay so diluted operating margin? Yes it was accretive to gross and diluted to op.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Rob how are you thinking about the imaging business in the second half of year? I mean obviously you had a pretty strong first half.
How have you guys come model that in second half given what we've seen from some of the bigger industry players? I mean I assume that it will continue to grow in the back half probably moderate a little relative to what we've seen here in the first half.
But we feel like we'll continue to see pretty growth there.
They do have a very strong growth in Q4 that will make it a little bit more difficult comparison.
I think they were up sort of mid-teens organically in the fourth quarter of '11.
But generally speaking that business continues to do well and we see good demands there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Last one for Andy.
Delevered about $23 million is there any reason why that wasn't higher? Is it just timing? I think you guys had talked about like $150 million for the year of deleveraging.
So just looking for some color on pacing there.
It's in line with the timing we set in place at the beginning of the year.
It maybe a little off but not much.
I think we're still on track.
I think there's 2 components of it as well.
There's EBIT -- there's EBITDA and the debt delevering and we're doing a little better on the EBITDA as well so there's a bit of a mix there.
But I think overall we're on track.
Your next question is from the line of Peter Lawson from Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> This is Eric Criscuolo filling in for Peter.
The investments in the second half that are going to increase is that going to be focused more on R&amp;D or SG&amp;A? No I think it's going to be both.
And I think there'll also be some on the cost of sales line as well which will be some of these productivities.
But I would say R&amp;D and selling as Andy talked about before we're trying to be fairly aggressive on trying to reduce our G&amp;A.
So I would say it's on those 2 areas most and then you see it in cost of sales.
Research Division</strong> And on the share count it's been creeping up a little over these past 2 quarters.
Is that going to continue to increase incrementally? Or is there a way to kind of slow that down? I think for modeling purposes I would keep it kind of fairly steady at that level.
I don't think it's going to go -- we're not going to let it go any higher.
Okay great.
And then any color on volumes or activity in your sequencing center that just got the CLIA certification? Yes I mean as we said it continues to grow nicely.
It's off of a very low base but as far as growth rates it continues to do well.
I think the CLIA certification opens up some additional business we can get.
Again this is largely focused on the research area and pharmaceutical companies.
So we have had requests in the past where they wanted some of the samples to be done under CLIA because they're either going into preclinical or clinical tests.
And so I think it's really -- it's again really focused on the research and mostly pharma side.
Your next question is from the line of Bryan Brokmeier from Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> First you commented earlier about the diagnostic -- you are actually seeing diagnostic growth in Europe.
Is most of that in eastern Europe? Or is there a positive growth in -- sorry was most of that in eastern Europe or you're also seeing positive growth in western Europe? We're actually seeing in both regions.
And is that kind of across the infectious disease and prenatal? Well in Europe it's fundamentally newborn and prenatal.
Okay.
And also the -- are you bringing your infectious disease products into new markets? Or is a lot of the strong that you're seeing in markets that you've traditionally had a presence in including China? Well I would say specifically in infectious disease it's mostly in China.
Research Division</strong> It's most in China? Yes.
And just real quickly last the -- have you started to shift in any of your -- the sales of any of those Caliper products from distributors to your sales force in some international markets? We have.
I would say it's still small.
I mean I would say we've targeted that more sort of the latter part of this year.
So we started to move some but it's been very small I don't know if you want to...
I think that while it has been small we've had really strong relationships with the distributors and we have been able to rationalize multiple distributors into single distributors and the growth that those accounts and those distributors are continuing to ramp nicely.
So we do feel like while we're waiting to make the final conversions we're making nice progress with a lower number of distributors.
Your next question is from the line of Derik De Bruin with Bank of America..
Research Division</strong> You were fairly conservative on Europe a little bit more so than a lot of your peers on this.
I guess Europe generally in line with where you thought it would be to be getting incrementally worse are you expecting it to be incrementally worse from where you initially guided? No I don't think so.
I mean I think particularly when you look at the strength in the first quarter and sort of average that over the year our assumption is that Europe will be sort of flat to down slightly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So last quarter some of the companies that supply stuff to the sample prep market for next-gen sequencing reported some pricing pressures and some competition there is.
Caliper didn't see that kind of headwind.
Has -- you're still seeing good demand there in that market -- has there been any change in the competitive dynamic in sample prep area? I think the term sample prep does get used a lot because many of the large NGS providers are actually providing their own sample prep reagents for certain steps.
We're upstream with that and we haven't seen any slowdown at all.
It's been strong double-digit growth occurring for next-gen sequencing sample preps for us.
And we actually have pretty good visibility to the future here as well and we're seeing really strong demand for this.
So both -- I would say expansion into Asia as well as just primarily in North American markets we see really nice sample prep on demand.
Research Division</strong> And is there any demarcation between some of the big-box machines and the benchtop machines? Are you supplying both of those? Can you just talk about how the market is? Well interestingly it's probably as expected.
The larger machines initially were acquired by our customers and then many of them started coming to our shows and realizing that the bottleneck became the sample preparation.
And so mostly they would buy those as secondary investments after they bought their first unit but now that they've had experience many of the same steps are needed for benchtop us well.
And so they've now gone into this investments a little bit more knowledgeable about the need for sample prep.
And so we do see in many cases we've got relationships with Life with Alumina with Packbio and others.
But primarily Life and Alumina when that initial acquisition is made now on the benchtop version you'll see sample prep being brought in right away.
Your next question is from the line of Zarak Khurshid with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> So it's the year of non-invasive prenatal diagnosis.
Clearly it's a little bit early for the impact on your business.
But can you just remind us how large how important is your prenatal screening franchise today and how are you thinking about that business given the rapid evolution of the field? So I think from a size -- I don't if we've got into the specifics of how big that business is specifically but I would say it's less clearly less than 5% of our revenue.
And I think we've talked about this on our other calls we're really pursuing 2 alternatives.
We're pursuing some things internally and in this specific case we're using some technology actually that Caliper had combined with some capabilities that we had to see if we can orchestrate around some of the difficult IP issues in this area.
And then of course the other thing is we're watching that very closely because I think one of the challenges with some of the current providers is there seems to be a sort of an IP minefield right now.
So I would say we're sort of analyzing that as well as sort of doing some things internally to potentially have our own offering.
Research Division</strong> Interesting.
And then maybe a question for Kevin.
Sounds like the Caliper microfluidics business was pretty robust in the quarter.
Can you maybe just talk about the comparison versus the In Vivo Imaging side? And I guess as we look further out how are you thinking about the runway of growth in that In Vivo Imaging segment? Yes Zarak.
You actually have hit upon [indiscernible] -- if you look at it from a product or technology standpoint you've hit upon the 2 double-digit growth components of the old Caliper that have now been integrated with some product lines and technologies from PerkinElmer which I think increases our menu.
So when you look at microfluidics we have had very strong ramp in next-gen sequencing and biotherapeutics.
And when you look at the In Vivo Imaging we've had very strong ramp in biotherapeutics where there's a lot of distribution studies as well as continued focus on oncology and that expanding now into inflammation and metabolic.
So we're seeing nice growth across all regions of the world and we're seeing nice growth across those market segments which were very concentrated.
Now we're starting to pull along some of the traditional legacy PerkinElmer products into those newer markets which was one of the strategies that Robin outlined for the acquisition.
So I think that the areas where the growth has not been as strong are probably in areas of small molecule and there were still some assets in Caliper technology for small molecule but the good news is that that's now rapidly moving over to large molecule and even epigenetics.
So I think across-the-board and the 2 categories you mentioned we still feel we've got strong growth and good visibility for the future.
And these shows we've had with customers most of the talks if you looked at the 65 talks we had I would say that 70% of them hit those 2 product lines the In Vivo Imaging and microfluidics.
And I should also mention that we're having 2 major shows in 2 weeks in China.
One in Shanghai one in Beijing.
And then we're going to having 2 more shows out on the West Coast that investors will be invited to those as well as our customers over the next 2 months.
Your next question is from the line of Jeff Elliott with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Your OneSource offering continues to do well and you keep adding to that offering.
With competitors increasing their focus here how will you continue to win with new and existing customers? Well I think it's just continuing to be able to differentiate what we're doing.
I think that drove us to some extent into some of these informatics capabilities.
I mentioned the current collaboration with our informatics business and OneSource that we've now come up with a very interesting product that for example Mark is using.
So it's just continuing to build out our differentiated capabilities.
I would say that's one.
I think the other thing is just to continue to expand geographically.
I mean historically OneSource was adopted in sort of the developed world and now it's -- almost all of our customers seem to move a lot of their lab activity into emerging markets.
We continue to build our capability there.
So I think that really is how we'll continue to grow.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question is from the line of Steve Willoughby with Cleveland Research.
Just wondering looks like the past couple of quarters here you guys have benefited in your diagnostic business from some larger equipment placements.
I remember a couple of quarters ago you mentioned Russia sounds like this quarter maybe China.
I'm just wondering what's going on there and what's the future look like for those kind of larger orders? Yes.
Let me just clarify.
I would say that in the case of China that wasn't a large equipment.
That was just a continued growth.
I talked about expansion of more customers there.
So in Q2 we did not have a necessarily large interim placement.
But what happens periodically is we'll build some large -- in most cases newborn screening labs.
I think Egypt was one we mentioned last year.
But I would say in Q2 that was not the case.
And we have no other questions at this time.
So I'll turn the call back over to Mr.
Rob Friel for closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you Keith.
And thank you all for your questions and continued interest in PerkinElmer.
So in summary let me just add we were -- we're very well-positioned but given the attractiveness in the end markets and the criticality of our offerings our ability to continue to provide differentiated innovations to our customers and our focus on providing strong financial results while investing in the long-term growth aspects of the company.
So again I look forward to updating you on our continued progress at the end of next quarter.
Thank you and have great day.
This call is now adjourned.
Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude today's conference.
Thank you very much for joining us.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2012 PerkinElmer Earnings Conference Call.
I have the operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
And with that I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Tommy Thomas Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Regina.
Good afternoon and welcome to the PerkinElmer's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
With me on the call are Rob Friel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Wilson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
If you have not received a copy of our earnings press release you may get one from the Investors section of our website at www.perkinelmer.com or from our toll-free investor hotline 1 (877) PKI-NYSE.
Please note this call is being webcast live and will be archived on our website for 2 weeks from today.
Before we begin we need to remind you everyone of the Safe Harbor statements that we have outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings.
Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views only as of today.
We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements in the future even if our estimates change.
So you should not rely on any of today's forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any other date after today.
During this call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available as an attachment to our earnings press release.
To the extent we use non-GAAP financial measures during this call that are not reconciled to the GAAP in the attachment we will provide reconciliations promptly.
I'm now pleased to introduce the Chairman and Chief Executive of PerkinElmer Rob Friel.
Rob? Thanks Tommy.
Good afternoon and thank you all for joining us today.
I'm pleased to report another excellent quarter for PerkinElmer in which we continued to make strong progress against our strategic priorities and also delivered solid financial performance exceeding our forecasted revenue growth and adjusted profitability.
During the third quarter our adjusted revenue grew 11% year-over-year which represents the 10th quarter in a row that we have reported growth of 10% or higher.
Organic growth for the quarter was 6% and over the last 10 quarters our organic growth has averaged over 7%.
While Andy will get into specific details of the organic revenue growth I would like to mention a couple of the key drivers of this strong performance.
Our Human Health business experienced 10% organic growth with both our diagnostic and research businesses benefiting from strong demand in emerging markets especially in Asia.
In particular our newborn screening medical image and infectious disease testing all experienced double-digit growth in the quarter.
In our Environmental Health business the majority of our growth came from the service business and the sale of environmental analysis products into emerging markets.
Our adjusted operating margins increased another 60 basis points in the third quarter after funding our planned spending increases on several initiatives to simplify our global manufacturing footprint reduce our administrative costs and expand our capabilities into the emerging markets.
Marking this 10th quarter of consecutive double-digit adjusted revenue growth I wanted to take a moment to give my perspective on why I think we've been able to continue delivering consistent and differentiated growth despite a choppy macroeconomic environment.
When signs began appearing in late 2008 that uncertain times might be on the horizon we made a conscious decision to not back away from our long-term vision of the company's portfolio geographic focus areas and critical mission.
As a result over the last 3 years we have made important investments in every aspect of our business through acquisitions acceleration of R&amp;D spending and operational improvement initiatives.
Ultimately our performance over this period is an incredible tribute to the dedication and the excellence of our people.
Internally our culture is now one where we all are deeply motivated by advancing our mission of improving the health and safety of people and the environment and energized by the positive difference that is being made.
The strength of our organization our steadfast commitment to growth and our operational excellence have been critically important to advancing our mission as our growth and increased profitability enables us to invest in new innovations and capabilities to solve our customers' needs.
In the past year we've increased our spending in research and development by over $20 million to bolster our innovation efforts.
And since the beginning of 2009 we have increased R&amp;D spending by over $40 million which represents approximately 10% of our increase in revenue during that time.
This increased R&amp;D spending has resulted in a strong pipeline of new products and services that have been major contributors to our strong organic growth over the last several quarters.
In addition to higher R&amp;D spending we also have continued to make significant investments to accelerate operational improvements and expand our capability to better serve our customers.
For example in the third quarter we opened our new Shanghai headquarters which quadruples our footprint in this critical location and features 3 new state-of-the-art centers dedicated to developing application solutions to address the needs of our growing Chinese customer base.
In addition our new diagnostics R&amp;D and manufacturing facility outside Shanghai in Taichung received the manufacturing certification from the SFDA.
This site has now begun production of high-quality diagnostic reagents and testing instruments for the rapidly growing emerging markets.
During the quarter we broke ground on a new global Personalized Health Center of Excellence in Hopkinton Massachusetts establishing a centralized location that brings together some of our best minds to focus on solving critical needs for our research customers.
We also opened a new customer relationship center in Krakow Poland to position PerkinElmer to capitalize on the rapid growth and business potential that we see in Eastern Europe while enabling us to leverage the recent economic competitiveness.
And finally we've accelerated our progress in realigning our manufacturing assets to improve efficiencies and to better reflect our changing geographic distribution of revenue.
During the third quarter we also began a number of new initiatives that will continue to fuel our growth.
I thought I would give you an example of these initiatives in each of our 3 key end markets.
In diagnostics we partnered with one of our customers to establish a lab in a lab to provide realtime PCR assays to help diagnose SCID in newborns.
SCID is a terrible disease that attacks the immune system and can make children extremely vulnerable to infectious disease.
However with new advances in recent years children with SCID can now be successfully treated and screening for this disease has begun in several U.S.
states.
In the research area we announced the strategic relationship with TIBCO for exclusive licensing rights of its Spotfire data visualization and discovery software.
Spotfire and our other informatics offerings are critical solutions for our customers as they harness and extract value from the big data they are producing with exponential speed.
And in the environmental market we are collaborating to embed our ultrasensitive air analyzers into air monitoring systems to detect the existence and concentrations of potentially toxic compounds.
These activities as well as many others are what inspire us and also give us the conviction to once again raise our adjusted revenue and adjusted EPS guidance for the year.
We are still in a challenging economic environment.
Fortunately we've been able to do well due to our long-term commitment to serving our customers strength in several key end markets our differentiated product offerings and an organization that is focused on making a safer healthier planet.
I would now like to turn the call over to Andy who will provide more details on our financial performance in the quarter and full year guidance.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon.
Consistent with prior quarters I'll provide some additional color on our end markets as well as the financial summary of our third quarter results.
And then we'll as usual open it up for questions.
As Rob mentioned we were pleased with our performance in the third quarter delivering another solid quarter of organic revenue growth.
Reported revenue for the third quarter increased 13% while adjusted revenue for the third quarter increased by 11% to $514.8 million as compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Organic revenue for the quarter increased 6% as compared to the same period a year ago.
Adjusted earnings per share for the third quarter was $0.45 driven by stronger top line growth partially offset by productivity and growth investments deployed in the quarter.
By segment organic revenue increased by 10% and 3% in our Human Health and Environmental Health segments respectively versus the same period last year.
By geography organic revenue in both the Americas and Europe grew at a low single-digit rate while Asia grew by more than 20%.
We continued to experience strong demand from emerging territories with organic revenue growth in the BRIC countries up greater than 20% despite a growth comparison of more than 20% in the prior period.
I'd also like to note that the majority of our businesses in emerging territories specifically the BRIC countries and especially China continued to experience strong demand reflecting the strength of PerkinElmer's brand and product portfolio as well as the attractiveness of the verticals we serve.
Looking at organic revenue by product category recurring revenue which includes reagents consumables and service grew mid-single digits in the quarter while instruments and components grew at a low double-digit rate when compared to the third quarter of 2011 primarily a result of strong demand in Human Health.
From an end market perspective PerkinElmer's Human Health segment represented approximately 50% of total revenue in the quarter.
We serve 2 end markets: in the human health diagnostics which represented 28% of total revenue; and research which represented 22% of total revenue.
Organic revenue from our Diagnostics business increased low double digits during the quarter with notable contributions from both our Screening and Medical Imaging businesses.
In our Screening business we continued to experience solid demand across most major segments of the portfolio.
This business is continuing to benefit from the stabilization of U.S.
birthrates and the expansion of our prenatal newborn and infectious disease screening solutions in key regions outside the U.S.
We are extremely pleased with our sales uptake in China and feel that we are well positioned from a geographic and end customer perspective to continue driving strong organic sales in the region.
Our Medical Imaging business continued to see broad-based organic growth across all key technologies and applications in the period with particular strength in traditional medical diagnostic imaging offerings.
We continue to be pleased with the exception -- acceptance of our CMOS imaging technology which provides us access into new verticals including mammography dental and orthopedics.
Organic revenue in our Research business rebounded from the second quarter growing at a high single digits in the quarter the result of strength in automation High Content Screening imaging and liquid handling capabilities as well as somewhat easier year-over-year comparisons.
Moving to Environmental Health which represented 50% of total revenue in the third quarter we served 3 end markets: Laboratory Services which represented 25% of total revenue Environmental and Safety which represented 18% of total revenue; and Industrial which represented 7% of total revenue.
During the quarter we experienced high single-digit organic growth in the Laboratory Services business low single-digit growth in the Environmental and Safety segment and a low single-digit decline in organic revenue growth for the Industrial segment.
We remain pleased with the performance of our Environmental Health business.
In China organic revenue once again grew by more than 20% benefiting from our market-leading environmental product applications.
In addition we continue to see good acceptance of our laboratory service and informatics offerings as we help our lab customers better manage their critical laboratory assets and related data needs.
Now looking at our margin performance in the period adjusted operating margins expanded approximately 60 basis points in the third quarter to 15.2% while adjusted operating income increased 16% in the quarter to $78.3 million.
We are pleased with our adjusted operating margin improvement in the quarter particularly given the growth and productivity investments made during the quarter as well as a difficult year-over-year comparison resulting from the impact of a significantly higher stock price on our stock-based compensation expense.
By segment adjusted operating margins in our Human Health business for the quarter were 22% representing an increase of approximately 180 basis points as compared to the third quarter of 2011.
The combination of volume leverage favorable mix and productivity gains contributed to the strong performance.
Our Environmental Health segment delivered adjusted operating margins of 12% representing a decrease of approximately 30 basis points.
This decline was within our expectations.
It was primarily due to the growth in productivity investments just mentioned.
GAAP operating income from continuing operations was $43.2 million in the third quarter of 2012 versus $36.1 million for the same period a year ago.
Our GAAP tax rate for the third quarter was approximately 8%.
And on a non-GAAP basis our adjusted tax rate was approximately 22% which is slightly lower than our previous guidance communicated in August.
We now expect our non-GAAP tax rate for the fourth quarter to be approximately 22%.
GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2012 was $0.25.
Adjusted EPS was $0.45 in the third quarter of 2012 exceeding the midpoint of our guidance range for the quarter of $0.42 to $0.44 and a 5% improvement over the same period last year.
I want to point out that our third quarter 2012 EPS results include approximately $0.02 per share of incremental interest costs related to the terming out of our variable debt in the fourth quarter of 2011 an excess of the funding requirements needed to fund the Caliper acquisition.
Our weighted average diluted share count for the third quarter of 2012 was approximately 115 million shares and our ending share count was approximately 114.2 million shares.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We finished the third quarter with approximately $930 million of debt and approximately $171 million of cash.
We continue to make progress in our delevering efforts as we exited the quarter with a debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.3x and a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 1.9x.
Looking at our cash flow performance.
Year-to-date operating cash flow from the continuing operations was $113.8 million as it compared to $151.5 million in the comparable period of 2011.
Operating cash flow performance in the quarter was affected by restructuring payments higher working capital needs including incremental needs related to the previously announced manufacturing moves to Singapore and China and royalty payments related to Spotfire licensing.
Overall we were pleased with our performance in the third quarter which represented the continuation of the momentum we experienced in the first half of the year.
Looking at our performance for the first 9 months of 2012 organic revenues increased over 5%; adjusted operating margins expanded by approximately 150 basis points to 15.8%; and adjusted earnings per share grew to $1.41 a 17% improvement over the comparable period last year.
Now I'd like to discuss our fourth quarter 2012 guidance in a bit more detail.
But before I do I want to remind everyone of our performance in the fourth quarter of 2011.
As you may recall we experienced a particularly strong finish last year due to the timing of the Caliper acquisition and the strong year-end demand across most of the portfolio.
In fact roughly 2/3 of our businesses experienced double-digit growth in the fourth quarter of 2011 which resulted in adjusted operating margin expansion of 250 basis points and adjusted EPS growth of 38%.
Consequentially this performance creates a very challenging year-over-year comparison.
Despite this challenge we still believe we can grow revenue organically expand operating margins and grow our earnings per share in the fourth quarter of 2012.
As the fourth quarter guidance we now expect fourth quarter adjusted revenue to be in the range of $570 million to $580 million with foreign-currency headwinds of approximately 1% based on current exchange rates and organic revenue in the range of 2% to 4%.
Regarding adjusted operating margins we expect modest margin expansion in the fourth quarter due to very difficult comparisons related to the Caliper stub period in the fourth quarter of 2011 as well as the ongoing growth in productivity investments we mentioned previously.
Based on these assumptions we expect adjusted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2012 to be in the range of $0.64 to $0.66.
And for the full year we are raising our adjusted EPS guidance from a range of $2 to $2.05 to a new range of $2.05 to $2.07.
This concludes my prepared remarks.
Operator at this time we'd like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And gentlemen your first question today comes from the line of Paul Knight with CLSA.
This is Bryan Kipp on behalf of Paul.
Just to start off how has pharma performed as an end market? Has it been stable for you all worse or improving? Sure.
I would say what we saw in pharma was actually -- as Andy mentioned we saw our Research business up high single digits.
It was driven to a large extent by growth in Asia.
I would say we continue to see softness in the Americas.
Europe was I think in sort of low mid-single digit growth but we really saw the strength in Asia.
And in our case the strength was much stronger in instruments than reagents.
So I would say a little bit better than what we've seen.
But again the majority of the strength is coming from Asia.
Okay.
And just an additional question.
We saw -- it looks like a 400-bp fall in adjusted Environmental op margin.
You guys kind of alluded to that a little bit.
Can you give any more color on that and just any specific analytical instruments that were better or worse in the quarter? Two questions.
I'll answer the first part.
Maybe Rob can answer the second part.
This is Andy.
In the quarter we had talked about deploying some investments and these really center around the movement of some of our manufacturing operations to China and Singapore.
And those expenses hit gross margin in the quarter and were predominantly within Environmental Health.
In addition there were also some costs related to our shared service consolidation.
We've now or -- now up and running with our shared service center and so both Environmental and Human Health were impacted by those costs.
So the combination of those 2 plus some of the instrument revenue and the mix towards instruments really contributed to that performance in the quarter.
But I would say overall the performance of Environmental actually came in pretty much what we thought.
And when we look at back at the end markets environmental analysis was actually strong sort of mid-single-digit growth again predominantly outside the U.S.
Services did well in the quarter and to the -- the only area where we saw a little bit of weakness and particularly toward the end of the quarter was clearly on the Industrial side which as Andy mentioned is less than 10% of our revenue.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Groberg with Macquarie.
Well we'll go ahead and take a question then from the line of Ross Muken with ISI.
Research Division</strong> So on Asia I mean are you surprised with sort of the success you've had there? I mean obviously we've seen all the data on some of the challenges particularly in China and even in other parts of Southeast Asia.
And so I know it's more on the healthcare side.
I mean can you sort of tease out between the 3 segments? Is there key there your Life Sciences Environmental Industrial kind of what you saw on some of those key countries? Ross actually we saw a pretty good growth across all 3 of the end markets and I was just there a couple of weeks ago.
And you continue to see a lot of emphasis in investment by the Chinese government first of all in improving the access to healthcare for all the citizens there.
So we see a significant amount of investment.
There we saw a growth both on the newborn side as well as the infectious disease a very strong growth.
On the research side we continue as I mentioned to see strong traction there.
And I think a lot of that is coming from the multinationals that they continue to build capability in that part of the world.
And similarly we saw a good growth on the environmental side as I think they recognize is that is going to continue to big a big barrier to their continued industrialization.
And so they're investing money in cleaning up the environment.
So I would say across the board we saw a continued growth throughout China.
Research Division</strong> And in general on the P&amp;L I mean you guys have just been really killing it all year.
You outperformed peers on organic.
You've done well on the margin.
The one thing we haven't seen from you guys in a bit has been on the capital deployment side.
There we've been mainly focused obviously on debt pay-down.
Andy where are we getting with the leverage? Do we feel like you guys could be back in market buying stock at some point? Is that the focus? Is M&amp;A still more on the radar? Where are we sort of with that part of the equation? Well I think if you look at our debt to EBITDA as we exit the third quarter we're essentially where we were before the Caliper acquisition.
So I think we're in a pretty good spot from a leverage perspective.
I think we continue to evaluate opportunities more from -- on the M&amp;A side more from a bolt-on perspective.
And we also are socializing the opportunity to buy back some shares.
We -- as indicated before we'd like to take out some of the float -- or some of the creep that's come in to the stock.
So I think the opportunity to do that is -- has increased just given our de-leveraging.
I think we have been very active on the M&amp;A side.
So I think it'll be something probably moving into '13.
There could be something small between now and then.
Yes.
Ross what I would say is and I think we mentioned this in the early part of the year we took some time to focus internally on making sure we got the integration of the acquisitions because as you know we're quite active in '11.
And we also wanted to bring the debt burden down a little bit.
I would say probably in the last couple of months we've ramped up the M&amp;A activity and we've started to fill up the pipeline.
And I wouldn't be surprised to see a couple of bolt-on deals here may -- possibly getting done in the next couple of quarters.
Yes.
I think the only thing I'd add do that Ross is our authorization for a buyback expired in October and it was renewed for another 2 years.
Your next question is from the line of Dan Leonard with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> A question on the investments you're making to leverage the business.
How should we think about the timing of when you're going to harvest those investments? So you mentioned you're already up and running with the shared service organization.
Does that mean those investments are now going to decline and we're going to see growth in the fourth quarter or beginning of '13? Or just pacing of that.
Yes.
I -- when I said we were up and running with our shared service center in Poland we've established that shared service center.
We're making the investments now.
Those investments will continue through early part of the second quarter so we'll start to see some savings from that really in the second half of next year.
I think on the facility move I think you're also looking into '13 probably maybe a little early in the year but a 2013 situation where we'll start to see some of those savings come through the numbers.
But there's still some more investments and I just want to make sure that that's clear that we will continue to be making some investments probably up through the second quarter of 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then my follow-up question Rob and Andy are you managing the business any differently in front of the uncertainty around the fiscal cliff in the U.S.? And if you are and in what -- in what fashion? I don't think so.
I mean I think when we look at the -- at least first we started with sequestration and I think we've talked about this in the past that the impact was -- it's relatively small.
I think what we said is when you look at NIH it's probably 5% or less of our revenue.
So obviously we're conscious of it but we're not seeing really any significant impact or pullback at this point.
Having said that I don't know that I would attribute to the fiscal cliff.
But clearly we'll continue to manage it in light of a fairly uncertain global economic environment.
So I don't know if I'd call out either the fiscal cliff or the sequestration as an issue.
But I think we are conscious of some real uncertainties so whether it's Europe whether it's some of the concerns in emerging markets as well as some of the issues we've seen here in the U.S.
So I think we have been conscious of growth opportunities as we get into '13 here.
Your next question comes from the line of Zarak Khurshid with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Yes Zarak Khurshid of Wedbush.
I guess so much for hard landing in China.
Dovetailing on that prior question can you just talk about strategically -- would you say you're pushing or investing more aggressively into that region more than you originally anticipated say 6 months ago? And then kind of as you look further out what are the fears for that region around kind of competition or sort of knockoff products or patent infringement things like that? So I would say the answer to your first question is we continue to accelerate our investments in that part of the world because we continued to be encouraged by as I mentioned before the opportunities across all our end markets.
So I think that the answer to your question is yes.
And I talked a little bit about the investment in both real estate from the standpoint of a much larger headquarter facility.
We're putting a global software development there.
We're adding application a laboratory there.
We're expanding manufacturing and R&amp;D capacity there.
And I would say all is -- mostly for China we also see it as an opportunity to leverage that into other emerging markets because obviously the beneficial cost position.
I would say the biggest concern or barrier we see there quite frankly is management talent.
As we continue to expand as we continue to put much more capability there it's really having the management capability to absorb the additional capacity.
And so we're spending a lot of time.
We've -- as part of this additional investment into our headquarters we actually put as part of that a development and learning center that we now have in our China headquarter facility.
And like I said that's the area we're spending a lot of time on.
From a patent infringement and those type of things -- we're not as concerned about that.
And we have some actually R&amp;D capabilities in China that we continue to expand upon.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just as a follow-up on the free cash flow side of things can you just talk a little bit about the Spotfire license? Should we expect that to continue? And what do you think kind of the run rate is for say maybe this year or next year? Normalized...
Yes.
I mean specific to the Spotfire license the way that transaction was established was in a large extent a prepaid license agreement.
And so there'll be continued payments for the next couple of years.
And as we continue to distribute that and sell that product we'll sort of work off that prepayment.
Research Division</strong> Can you quantify it? Well I would say we're not really at this point talking about it.
It's not a significant amount of money but we're not really talking about the -- at sort of the agreement with our partner not to get into specifics of the financial arrangement.
Your next question is from the line of Jon Wood with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So Andy I appreciate some of the color on cash flow but third quarter is particularly weak.
Can you guys still do about 100% of adjusted net income? Or is that too much of a stretch at this point? I would say our performance year-to-date is in line what we expected.
I think given the investments we're making with some of these initiatives some of them requiring capital investments and restructuring investments it's got to be tough to get to 100%.
I mean I think we'll have a very strong performance in the fourth quarter both in working capital and free cash flow as we start to normalize some of the working capital because of the manufacturing moves.
But -- I mean we are consciously spending on these initiatives.
So I would say this year it may be a little short of that.
But I think our long-term goal is to always be north of 100%.
Yes.
So Jon one of the things and you probably have an appreciation of it as we move some of our manufacturing facilities we're clearly building some excess inventory to give us some leeway there as we sort of train people in other areas.
So some of that's going to clearly carry over into the early part of 2013.
And so that additional investment in inventory while we think it's appropriate while we continue to make these moves probably is going to make it difficult for us to achieve what we've historically been able to do which is to match our free cash flow with our net income.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay very good understood.
A follow-up can you call out the Caliper -- how the Caliper business did on the top line as well as any comments on kind of costs rationalization or where you are you on the -- in the actual integration there? Yes.
The Caliper business continues to perform very well.
We're ahead of the model from a profitability and accretion perspective.
It - quite frankly it's really becoming quite difficult to sort of track the revenue because we're in the point now where -- we've even got to the point where we're substituting products so in the liquid handling the JANUS for the Zephyr and FMT versus the Spectrum.
So it's not really that meaningful anymore but I would tell you that again they're doing well relative to the organic growth calculations for PerkinElmer.
They added slightly but I would call it less than 30 basis points.
Your next question is from the line of Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I had 2 one on Diagnostics and the other one on margins.
On Diagnostics could you maybe just give us some color on the overall volume environment and your sense of birthrate how that's driving the business both domestically and abroad? So in the U.S.
based on our numbers we would say birthrates are up about 1% over the last 12 months.
So obviously we're not having the headwind that we had over the last couple of years.
It's obviously driving some nice growth there.
And outside the U.S.
while birthrates have been positive what's really driving the growth is much higher adoption.
And for example we saw in the quarter as we do in every quarter we continue to add additional countries or regions.
So we saw some wins in Europe parts of Germany Norway and Italy we added.
And of course we continue to see strong expansion in Middle East and particularly as I mentioned before in China.
So outside the U.S.
it was clearly much stronger.
But we also saw good growth in the U.S.
as well because of back to a positive birthrate.
Your next question is from the line of Daniel Brennan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Maybe the first question would just kind of be more on the economy and the end markets maybe an update on the pacing of demand.
As you exited the quarter looking towards Q4 -- I didn't hear in your guidance the Q4.
Cited very tough comps but still generating good growth but didn't really hear anything too much about the economy.
Most of the companies are at least kind of referencing conditions.
Are you seeing any impact? Is there any -- instrument is also growing greater than -- reagents was kind of interesting.
We'd love to take get your take there.
Yes.
I wouldn't suggest that we're sort of immune to what's happening in the overall global economy.
But I would say because I think some of our end markets are more resilient than some of the others we're not being as impacted.
I would say as the third quarter played out the industrial end markets -- clearly we saw some softening there as we got into the later part of Q3.
Other than that and as we said that's less than 10% -- other than that I would say our end markets were fairly consistent through the quarter.
So I would say a little softening on the industrial side.
Other than that fairly consistent.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then maybe on the Screening business Andy gave kind of an interesting conversation on our conference about China and kind of a number of tests that are being done there today and what the opportunities.
So I'd love to hear your kind of thoughts maybe within China kind of where you guys are today and kind of maybe where you envisioned maybe on a test basis kind of growing that up kind of -- what's the opportunity to look at a few years? And kind of what would -- kind of how would that translate into a growth impact? Well I would -- in China specifically the opportunity number one is on the newborn side.
And obviously they have a lot of births there in the sort of 15 million to 16 million births per year.
Currently depending on where you are in China it's anywhere from 2 to 4 tests.
And as you probably know in the U.S.
right now the standard of care is 29.
So there's a significant opportunity to continue to expand not only the number of children that are tested but also the amount of tests.
So we're excited by that opportunity.
And then also on the diagnostic side where -- largely what we're doing there is infectious disease for hepatitis B C and HIV are our larger tests.
We're seeing a nice opportunity there particularly this year because what you've seen is for surgeries now there that's done in China they're now requiring 5 tests for various infectious disease and that's driving a lot of our growth.
So we continue to see a nice runway to continue to expand diagnostic test particularly in the verticals that we serve within China.
Your next question is from the line of Doug Schenkel with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a first cleanup question could you increase the pace of restructuring this quarter to compensate for the fact that you delayed some of the productivity spend and investment that you had planed originally in Q2? If I remember correctly your operating margin benefited by about 80 bps due to those delays so I'm just wondering whether there was a full catch-up this quarter.
And what's the right way to think about the pacing of further investment heading into Q4? No.
I think that the -- from a restructuring perspective there was a fairly small impact.
From an overall productivity and growth initiative perspective that really is being spread over 2 quarters so we saw about half of that in the third quarter.
We'll see the other half in the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes really what I was trying to get at is were margins almost artificially in a way depressed this quarter because you delayed some of that spend from Q2 into Q3? Yes.
I mean if you look at our remarks in expansion of 60 basis points about 80 of that -- on top of that we had about 80 basis points of margin contraction due to our investments in the quarter.
And that there was also as I mentioned in my prepared remarks a fairly significant comparison on our stock-based compensation due to the change in stock price.
So those 2 items were the 2 kind of significant spike-outs that I would mention and combined would have said we were up about 150 basis points.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And sorry to beat a dead horse on the Environmental Health specifically the Industrial subsegment.
But Environmental Health did come up a little bit light of Street consensus.
I'm just curious relative to your internal plan was this also the case? And if you came up a little bit lighter than planned here was it truly all industrial? And if so is it fair to conclude that there were really no changes in competitive or pricing dynamics? As I sort of alluded to before Industrial -- or Environmental came in about what we thought.
We probably would've pegged that in Q3 about 3% to 4%.
If you look back in Q3 of '11 it did have a fairly difficult comparison particularly in the instrument side.
We saw a very strong growth on the instrument side in Q3 of last year so we knew we were cycling up against that.
So maybe Industrial was a little bit lighter than we thought.
I would say overall it's probably about down mid-single-digits.
But when you look at the rest of the business on the instrument side we saw a good growth.
And as I mentioned service was up mid to high single digits.
Your next question is from the line of Tycho Peterson with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is Ramesh in for Tycho.
It looks like excluding Caliper and obviously you mentioned that the Research or the Life Sciences business is merging with Caliper quite nicely now.
But it looks like some of the other sort of legacy Research businesses the radiochemical business perhaps the high throughput screening those businesses may have done better or at least stabilized a little bit.
Can you talk just about how those trended in the quarter? Yes.
I think that's fair.
I mean when you look at high single digits for the Research business clearly the -- I would call the historical PerkinElmer businesses have done better in Q3 than they've done over the last couple of quarters.
Again it's getting a little hard to sort of parcel that out as precisely as we've had historically.
But I would say a couple drivers to that.
One is they did have some fairly easy comparisons.
They were actually down low single digits in Q3 of '11.
I would say that's one thing.
Second is -- I mean whenever you're dealing in sort of the research particularly with high-end instruments you're going to have some timing sort of fall in and out of a quarter.
And clearly we were a little short in Q2.
I think we recovered some of that in Q3.
And then the other factor is we are seeing a benefit from the PerkinElmer instruments of having the Caliper products sort of in our tool chest if you will.
And as we go out there we can talk about some of the exciting products for Caliper as well as some of the exciting for PerkinElmer.
I think we are getting some ancillary benefit of a pull-through on the -- on historical PerkinElmer products.
Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up guys on the software business and informatics.
I guess how are you approaching integrating Geospiza and maybe Cambridgesoft into the Life Sciences business? And how a PKI informatics is going to work I guess under the still of the Environmental Health umbrella? So what we are in the process of doing is taking a lot of -- virtually all of the informatics and Geospiza and merging it with the research.
And that's something that we'll -- we're in the process of doing now.
So probably going into 2013 we think it makes a lot more sense to have the informatics business more aligned with sort of the Caliper and the research businesses.
And so I think you'll see that coming out into '13.
Your next question is from the line of Derik De Bruin with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A lot of my questions have been answered so I'm just going to fish around the edges here.
So when you look at your mix of business geographically and also your manufacturing I guess where do you see the business in -- from a particularly from an emerging market international -- non-U.S.
non-Europe sort of standpoint now and say 3 years from now? And I guess how much of your manufacturing footprint are you going to be able to move over as well? I'm just trying to get a sense of what -- how much more opportunity there is in those markets for you.
Well I think from a revenue perspective we talked about private emerging markets being around 28% and given the growth differential we're seeing now and I think we'd continue for some period of time.
In addition to sort of our investment priorities I could clearly see that gets to mid-30s over the next couple of years.
From a manufacturing perspective we're clearly under-weighted in the Asian region right now and so that's why we've embarked on this initiative to move a lot more of the production there.
And again not primarily driven by costs really it's trying to get better alignment between where our manufacturing is and where our customer base is.
And so I think we've got a fair amount of opportunity.
We've like I said embarked on a couple of these now where we'd like to be fairly better aligned.
So we've got 35% of our revenue there.
At least 30% our manufacturing is coming out of there and that's really the intention.
So we have a roadmap right now over the next couple of years that will be much better matched between our revenue profile and our manufacturing cost profile.
Research Division</strong> Great that's actually very helpful.
When you look at the -- sticking with the China theme when you look at the infectious disease testing that you're doing there it's like -- what's the basis of your platform? And I guess who are you running into from a competition standpoint? Are you running into the [indiscernible] of the world for example? What's just the lay of the land there? So our assays are fundamentally around fluorescence or time-resolved fluorescence.
It's the technology.
We're generally targeted the Tier 2 hospitals.
And so that's where we're getting good inroads because we provide sort of a cost structure base on China but bringing sort of technology and brand associated with a multinational.
And so we can price the products a little bit above the locals and under the sort of classical international companies.
And that's what's allowing us to take a lot of share.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one final question speaking on the competition.
You know we've obviously seen lot of changes in the -- some of your traditional businesses in chemical testing in environmental as you've seen some obviously varying [indiscernible] and [indiscernible] expansion.
What's the pricing environment going on in that space? Are things fairly still rational? Well I think they're rational but they're tight from the standpoint of a lot of people.
If you're talking specifically around the analytical or instrument space there's more supply than demand.
And particularly as we see the industrial end markets starting to look like slowing I think that's only going to get worse.
So I think it is a difficult pricing environment.
But I would say people are still rational.
But it this -- I would say price discounting is accelerating.
Your next question is from the line of Dan Arias of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Andy I'm not sure if I missed it but can you parse out instrument growth or decline specifically for Environmental and Human Health? I didn't give that breakout.
I'm mean overall instruments were up 10%.
And I would say the Human Health instruments were kind of high single and environmental were low single.
And most of the growth in Environmental Health instruments were in emerging territories.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the emerging territories and China specifically just given the way that you're talking about investments and expenditures there do you think that margins stay above the corporate average for the foreseeable future? Or does that gap start to close and come down to the mean over time? I'm sorry could you repeat the question? I didn't quite understand the first part of it.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at the margins in China and the way that you're investing there and how that looks relative to the corporate average.
Well they've been in line with the corporate average.
And if anything they've actually been improving.
We obviously have lower gross margins but have a lower cost base as well.
So they've been in line.
I think over time with some of the manufacturing moves and some of the infrastructure moves I think we will see China margins ahead of company average.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess one last one I think you get this question pretty consistently.
But on OneSource what are the pricing and market share change dynamics looking like in that part of the business? Say that again I'm sorry I missed the beginning of that question.
Research Division</strong> In the OneSource business I'm just curious about pricing and market share changes.
Obviously you have a big competitor that seems like they're doing well.
But clearly it's doing well for you as well.
So I'm just trying to understand the business a little better the market a little better.
Yes.
I mean I think the dynamics in this environment right now is sort of similar as I mentioned on the analytical instruments.
It's sort of an aggressive pricing environment.
And we're -- we've got a very good position with a lot of our customers.
And so I think we feel good about our capabilities there.
But I think there is continued pricing competition there particularly across some of the bigger contracts that are up for bid.
Fortunately because in a lot of cases we're the incumbent.
I think we understand the opportunities there and I think -- feel we're in a very good position to be able to identify where we can take efficiencies and work within -- partner with our customers to sort of drive those savings where we sort of both benefit.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Brokmeier with Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> Can you quantify or provide some qualitative comments on the benefit that your microfluidics business is realizing from the recent Ion Proton commercialization? Yes.
Bryan this is Kevin Hrusovsky.
We're actually continuing to make great headway on all aspects of our microfluidics relative to sample prep.
We actually have had in the last 2 quarters continued build-out of our platforms both from a sample prep and quality control.
And we've made it agnostic to Life and to Illumina as well as some of the newer entrants.
We're feeling pretty good that that will only help.
So the more traction they get we do believe it's going to be a positive for our business.
Research Division</strong> Any way to estimate for every new sequence there -- every new desktop sequence there that is sold out in the market? You got maybe 20% of those or 40% of the new placements? Yes.
We've got some algorithms that we built basically to try to test the market but it's too early for us to be able to know how we're going to secure that.
But we do think it's going to be north of 10%.
But we're just -- at this point it's premature.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Environmental side of the business did you see any material benefit in the quarter Rob? Do you see any material benefit in the quarter from the Chinese food labeling law that takes effect in January 1? And do you expect to see any material improvement in the fourth quarter? Yes I would say that something we've seen for the last couple of quarters.
There's the new regulation where they've got to put nutritional labeling on their food now.
It's something that's driven our growth probably since Q2 of this year.
So I think clearly we're seeing a benefit in China as a result of those new regulations.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Lawson with Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> Rob the softening you saw in the Industrials business is that continuing for Q4? Say it again Peter I'm sorry I missed the...
Research Division</strong> Sorry that softening in that Industrials business does that continue into Q4? You mean the -- yes I think we have seen that continue sort of from an industrial perspective.
As I said it was -- we started to see it sort of mid-Q3.
And I would say it continues here in Q4.
So our assumption in our guidance is that the industrial markets will be soft and in fact will probably be down year-over-year from a revenue perspective.
Research Division</strong> And have you made any changes in the sales force around that business? Is it that concerning? I wouldn't say we're at the point now we're sort of adjusting our sales force.
And again a lot of our sales force is based on technology to some extent.
So we look for other markets to sort of focus some of the products in.
But at this point we're not making changes to our sales force.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then were there any pricing pressures across the various business lines during the quarter? We talked about that a little bit earlier where I would say clearly in the environmental area on the instrument side we continue to see fairly severe discounting going on relative to the competition.
So I think that's an area we see a lot of pricing.
Outside of that I would say in the Human Health area where I think the products are much more differentiated less so.
One thing I -- while we have a brief moment one thing I'd like to add and just clarify I know this is going to come out in the -- in print.
But the question around instruments total PKI was up high single digit environmental Health was up low single and Human Health was up low double.
I just wanted to clarify because I think my comments before didn't make a lot of sense.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Willoughby with Cleveland Research.
I'm just wondering on China it sounds like a lot of the growth there was driven by instruments.
So I'm just wondering what your thoughts for on the sustainability of that going forward and if anything was kind of onetime or anything like that this quarter.
Well I would say if you look at the growth in  China it was really across the board both instruments and reagents.
So we saw it on the instrument side.
I would say when you look in research it was largely on the instrument side.
But clearly when you go into diagnostics that's largely a reagent business anyway.
And when you go in the environmental side it was a little bit of both on the service as well as the instrument.
So it was fairly broad-based from both instruments and reagents.
With regard to your question if we see it's sustainable we do.
I think we continue to feel very good about our position there our product offerings and our organization in China.
And so we continue to expect that China will continue to provide good growth for us.
Okay.
And then just one other thing was with acquisitions adding 18 points to your Human Health business were there any other acquisitions in there other than Caliper? Because just doing the math it seems like Caliper probably didn't grow that much is that correct? Well the answer to your question is it was only Caliper is in the acquisition number.
All the informatics acquisitions anniversaried in the second quarter.
Okay.
So it was just Caliper.
Your next question is from the line of Jeff Elliott with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to get a little bit more color on the strength the traditional medical imaging that you called out.
And just to follow-up on the tax -- on the manufacturing moves can we see the impact on the tax rate as you expand overseas perhaps? Yes I think it could.
I mean as we put more and more of our profitability outside the U.S.
clearly we have a lower tax rate in Asia than we do in both Europe and the U.S.
So I think it does provide some downward pressure on the tax rate.
With regard to the medical imaging we actually saw a nice growth really across all aspects of the business.
So radiology both oncology and I think any spike-out in particular while small numbers our new entry into CMOS with our Dexela acquisition actually saw a very strong growth.
And as Andy also mentioned it gets us to new couple of other end markets that we're quite pleased about.
So in the medical imaging area we actually saw a nice growth across all of our end market applications.
Okay.
And I know you have the Investor Day coming up in December.
Just curious any kind of early highlights you can share with us? I think we're still trying to finalize those plans.
Nothing has been set on stone.
So we'll have to get back to you on both dates and content.
You have a follow-up question from the line of Jon Groberg.
So just following up on what you said Andy.
This is going to be my question.
As Human Health instruments grew low double digits but Rob talked about...
Low single...
They were low single digits.
I'm sorry Human Health was low double digits yes correct.
It was low double digits.
I think I got you right? You did.
So -- and you already talked about the decrementals [ph] in Environmental.
But I guess my question is it seems -- normally we think about if instruments grow faster than consumables that actually is a negative mix on margins.
But Human Health is where you saw obviously some good margin expansion.
So if you can just maybe talk about what happened with mix was that -- is that imaging strength? Or is there something else going on in Human Health? Well I think we saw a pretty good performance across the board.
I don't know if there was anything in particular that spiked out on mix.
Yes.
I would say the other thing is when you look at particularly the research area you don't see as much disparity on the margins.
I think classically the big disparity we see between reagents and instruments is more on the diagnostic side where a lot of cases you're placing the instruments and then getting the reagents.
When you look more on the research side there's -- I mean clearly reagents are still more profitable.
There's a much closer sort of match there between what the gross margins are.
And so consequently a lot of the instrument growth was driven by the research side.
And so therefore I don't think it was as detrimental on our gross margins as you might think.
All right.
And then it seems like -- it seems fairly interesting.
And then one more on Human Health as you look out to '13 are you guys anticipating any impacts from the medical device tax? I know a lot of the diagnostic stuff is overseas in China and so I'm just curious what you're...
Right.
Yes I mean our calculation right now says it's a relatively minor impact for us again because a lot of our business is outside the U.S.
I mean I would say it's right now sort of less than $5 million is the impact.
But we continue to sort of try and understand some of the issues that regulations are still yet to be forthcoming on.
All right.
So with that let me wrap it up.
First of all let me thank all for you for your participation and continued interest in PerkinElmer.
As we look to close out another strong year I just feel great about our future because of our ability to grow and most importantly our dedication to making a lasting difference in the world.
And I think we've got a great organization and I'm quite excited about the future at PerkinElmer.
So thank you all for joining us and have a great evening.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you so much for your participation today.
This does conclude the presentation and you may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2012 PerkinElmer Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jeff and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Tommy Thomas Vice President of Investor Relations.
And you have the floor sir.
Thanks Jeff.
Good afternoon and welcome to PerkinElmer's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
With me on the call are Rob Friel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Wilson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
If you have not received a copy of our earnings press release you may get one from the Investors section of our website at www.perkinelmer.com.
Please note that this call is being webcast live and will be archived on our website until February 14 2013.
Before we begin we need to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor statements that we have outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings.
Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views only as of today.
We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements in the future even if our estimates change.
So you should not rely on any of today's forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date after today.
During this call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available as an attachment to our earnings press release.
To the extent we use non-GAAP financial measures during this call that are not reconciled to GAAP in that attachment we will provide reconciliations promptly.
I am now pleased to introduce the Chairman and Chief Executive of PerkinElmer Rob Friel.
Rob? Thanks Tommy.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
We're pleased to report another great quarter for PerkinElmer rounding out an excellent year for the company in which we delivered strong financial performance while continuing to invest in improving our growth and profitability profile.
Turning first to the financial results in the fourth quarter.
Reported revenue grew 6% and organic revenue grew 3% in the period.
Adjusted operating margins and EPS were roughly in line with our forecast at 18.3% and $0.65 respectively.
We were very pleased to deliver such solid performance in the quarter particularly given the tough comparisons versus the extremely strong fourth quarter we had in 2011.
Also during the fourth quarter we made excellent progress on our productivity programs to rationalize our production footprint shift production to lower-cost regions and better leverage our G&amp;A expenses.
In addition we continued to make strides in expanding our capabilities into targeted high-growth markets.
For example we completed the acquisition of Haoyuan Biotech which is based in Shanghai and is a supplier of molecular infectious disease screening technologies.
In addition Haoyuan holds only 1 of 5 government approved licensing allowing it to leverage its NAT technology in blood screening centers throughout China.
The combination of PerkinElmer's distribution channel and capability and Haoyuan's leading automation assay technology and manufacturing expertise creates a formidable competitor in the large and growing Chinese blood screening and diagnostic markets.
Also in the quarter we announced our entry into the noninvasive prenatal testing market through a collaboration with Verinata Health.
We believe that incorporating Verinata's verified test into PerkinElmer's extensive distribution channel will further extend our leadership position within maternal fetal health and help to accelerate the broader adoption of noninvasive prenatal testing.
Now looking back at the full year 2012.
Reported revenue grew 10%.
Organic revenue grew 5% and we expanded adjusted operating margins by 100 basis points.
This improved profitability translated into adjusted earnings per share growth for 2012 of 13% resulting in adjusted EPS growth of over 100% over the last 5 years.
We achieved this strong performance by continuing to strengthen our organization and technical capabilities and focusing on serving customers in attractive high-growth end markets.
Through targeted investments such as our new Shanghai headquarters and application centers and our new customer relationship center in Krakow Poland in addition to increasing the number of emerging market-based employees from 1 500 to 2 000 we expanded our emerging market presence which now accounts for nearly 30% of total revenue.
On the innovation front bolstered by a $30 million -- $38 million increase in R&amp;D spending over the last 2 years we have delivered breakthrough solutions across our detection imaging and informatics capabilities.
A few highlights include the introduction of our direct sample analysis for mass spectrometry that utilizes a disruptive approach to sample preparation producing results in only seconds allowing advanced chemical analysis of many sorts of samples.
The vector imager which allows pathologists to examine several biomarkers simultaneously on a single sample slide sample has seen terrific adoption.
Skin testing was introduced this year as a novel lab and lab offering in California and Florida expanding the spectrum of available molecular assays for newborn and childhood screening.
And finally our informatics team is incorporating the power of spot fire visualization software with our various Cornerstone offerings to the pharmaceutical chemical and other industries for better management of the complex laboratory R&amp;D efforts.
Informatics and software continue to be a major effort of R&amp;D at PerkinElmer as we bring useful knowledge to our customers' fingertips through the marriage of innovative sample preparation advanced instrumental analysis and leading information technology.
We also took strides last year to improve our operating efficiencies and align closer to our global customer base.
These moves included repositioning certain manufacturing and R&amp;D assets as well as organizational changes to allow a more market focused approach with our customers.
One of these changes which is effective in the first quarter of 2013 is to better align our informatics and certain portions of our service business to the end markets they serve which should provide greater synergies and focus to both our customers and PerkinElmer.
This change will result in a shift of about 7% of our adjusted revenue from Environment Health to Human Health for 2013.
And our website will provide a reconciliation of these changes.
As we move into 2013 our approach will be similar to last year and we'll focus on driving profitable growth and returns to shareholders by strengthening our organizational and technical capabilities gaining continued traction on our productivity improvements and targeting attractive high-growth markets.
Turning now to 2013 guidance.
We are currently assuming the organic growth rates in our end markets this year will be similar to what we experienced in 2012 with the exception of Medical Imaging which due to the strong demand experienced last year will face a significant headwind in 2013.
However we expect the investments we made in the latter part of 2012 to offset the lower growth for Medical Imaging.
And accordingly we are forecasting full year organic growth to grow in the mid-single digit range of 4% to 6% with a view more towards the lower end in the first half and towards the upper end in the back half.
Similarly our operating margin expansion will be skewed to the second half of the year through the continued investment required in 2 of our productivity programs which are scheduled to be completed midyear.
In addition we are planning to increase our investments to support several of our recent growth initiatives including building out Haoyuan's molecular assay menu expanding Spotfire's capabilities in life science research and investing in our prenatal channel in our collaboration with Verinata.
We are comfortable increasing our investments in both growth and significant productivity programs due to the savings we are already seeing -- starting to see from our prior programs as well as our confidence that our growth investments will pay dividends as early as 2014.
Consequently despite these investments pressuring margins in the first half of the year we believe we can expand adjusted operating margins in the 50 to 75 basis points in 2013 achieve adjusted operating margins of 18% or better in 2014 and provide a stronger foundation to expand growth and profitability beyond 2014.
Given the forecast of organic revenue growth and adjusted margin expansion we estimate adjusted earnings per share for 2013 in the range of $2.24 to $2.32 representing an increase of 9% to 13% over the prior year.
However and more importantly executing on our 2013 operating plan will allow us to enter 2014 much better positioned to accelerate both top and bottom line growth over the next several years.
I would now like to turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon everyone.
Consistent with prior quarters I'll provide some additional color on our end markets a financial summary of our fourth quarter results and details around our 2013 first quarter and full year guidance and then we'll open it up for questions.
As Rob mentioned earlier we were pleased with our performance in the fourth quarter delivering another solid quarter of organic revenue growth despite a very difficult comparison to the fourth quarter of 2011.
Reported revenue for the fourth quarter increased 6% while adjusted revenue increased by 4% to $577 million as compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
Organic revenue for the quarter increased 3% as compared to the same period 1 year ago.
Adjusted earnings per share for the fourth quarter was $0.65 driven by in-line organic revenue growth.
Adjusted operating margins also came in as expected with the impact of a higher stock price and a long-term compensation expense offset by a slightly lower tax rate.
Organic revenue increased 3% in both our Human Health and Environmental Health segments versus the same period last year.
By geography organic revenue in both the Americas and Asia grew at a high single digit rate while Europe declined at a high single-digit rate.
We continue to experience strong demand in China with organic revenue growth in excess of 20% with some moderation in the rest of the BRIC countries which faced their toughest comparisons of the year.
As a reminder we will continue to cycle up against difficult emerging market comparisons in the first quarter of 2013.
Looking at organic revenue by product category.
Recurring revenue which includes reagents consumables and service grew high single digits in the quarter primarily the result of continuing demand in our Human Health segment and strength in our 1 source and informatics offerings.
Instruments and components declined at a low single-digit rate cycling up against low double-digit growth comparisons from the fourth quarter of 2011.
From an end market perspective PerkinElmer's Human Health segment represented approximately 48% of reported revenue in the quarter.
We served 2 end markets in Human Health diagnostics which represented 26% of reported revenue and research which represented 22% of reported revenue.
Organic revenue from our Diagnostics business increased mid-single digits during the quarter with continued contributions from both Screening and Medical Imaging.
Our Screening business continues to benefit from the stabilization of U.S.
birth rates and the expansion of our prenatal newborn and infectious disease screening solutions in key regions outside the U.S.
We were encouraged with our sales uptake in China delivering organic growth above 20% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Our Medical Imaging business continued to see broad-based organic growth across all key technologies and applications in the period with particular strength in our traditional medical diagnostic imaging offerings.
We remain pleased with the growing acceptance of our CMOS imaging technology which has benefited from numerous design wins in new high-growth verticals such as breast mammography and nondestructive testing for industrial applications.
For the full year 2012 Medical Imaging delivered a very strong double-digit organic growth performance.
Our research business was flat organically in the fourth quarter versus the comparable period in 2011 as fiscal cliff and sequestration uncertainties in the U.S.
as well as weak European research markets contributed to softer demand early in the quarter.
We are however encouraged by the research business's strong finish to the year.
Moving to Environmental Health which represented 52% of reported revenue in the fourth quarter we served 3 end markets: Laboratory Services which represented 26% of reported revenue; Environmental and Safety which represented 19% of reported revenue; and Industrial which represented 7% of reported revenue.
During the quarter we experienced low double-digit organic growth in the Laboratory Services segment.
Within the Environmental and Safety segment we saw flat organic growth while our industrial segment experienced a low double-digit organic revenue decline as both of these latter segments cycled up against double-digit organic growth comparisons from the fourth quarter last year.
We continued to see strong acceptance of our laboratory service and informatics offerings as we help our lab customers better manage their critical laboratory assets and related data needs.
Our OneSource offering continues to be a key differentiator for us as evidenced by our ability to expand our presence with key pharmaceutical customers throughout 2012.
Turning to our margin performance in the period.
Adjusted operating margins in the fourth quarter were 18.3% as compared to 18.5% in the comparable period a year ago.
This performance was in line with our expectations given the growth and productivity investments made in the quarter as well as a very difficult year-over-year comparison which was further exacerbated by the timing of the Caliper acquisition in the prior year.
Adjusted operating income increased 3% in the quarter to $105.6 million.
By segment adjusted operating margins in our Human Health business for the quarter were 22% representing a decline of approximately 100 basis points as compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
This decline was primarily the result of the impact from the Caliper stub period in 2011 and previously announced growth in productivity investments deployed in the full fourth quarter of 2012.
Our Environmental Health segment delivered operating margins of 19% representing a decrease of approximately 30 basis points.
This decline was within our expectations and was primarily due to the growth and productivity investments previously mentioned.
GAAP operating loss from continuing operations was $30.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus a loss of $25.9 million in the same period a year ago due to charges related to trademark rationalizations as well as the year-end mark-to-market pension plan adjustments.
On a non-GAAP basis our adjusted tax rate was approximately 20.5% and we expect our adjusted tax rate for 2013 to be approximately 23%.
GAAP loss per share from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2012 was $0.14 compared to a loss of $0.74 in the fourth quarter of last year.
Adjusted earnings per share was $0.65 in the fourth quarter 2012 and at the midpoint of our guidance range.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We finished the fourth quarter with approximately $940 million of debt and approximately $171 million of cash.
We continue to make progress on our delevering efforts as we exited the quarter with a debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.3x and a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 1.9x.
Looking at our cash flow performance.
Full year operating cash flow from continuing operations was $154 million as compared $234 million in 2011.
Incremental cash tax payments prepaid royalties higher receivables due to the timing of revenues in the fourth quarter and restructuring charges related to our productivity initiatives negatively impacted our performance in both the quarter and the year.
Overall we are pleased with our performance in 2012 and feel we are on track to deliver on our longer-term organic growth and adjusted margin expansion targets.
Looking back at our performance for the year our reported revenues increased 10% with organic revenue growth of 5%.
Adjusted operating margins expanded by approximately 100 basis points to 16.5% despite significant selling and productivity investments and adjusted earnings per share grew to $2.06 a 13% improvement over the comparable period last year.
Now I'd like to discuss our 2013 guidance in a bit more detail.
We expect adjusted revenue for the full year to grow mid single digits with the second half of the year expected to be slightly higher than the first half.
Regarding adjusted operating margins we expect expansion of 50 to 75 basis points with margin expansion to be more back half weighted due to our continued growth in productivities investments slated for the first half of 2013.
Interest expense is expected to be similar to 2012.
Our adjusted tax rate as I previously noted is expected to be 23% for the year.
And our weighted average diluted share count is assumed to be flat or approximately 115.7 million shares.
Based upon these assumptions we expect adjusted earnings per share for 2013 to be in the range of $2.24 to $2.32.
For the quarter first quarter of 2013 we expect adjusted revenues to be in the range of $525 million to $535 million with foreign-currency headwinds of approximately 1% based on current exchange rates and organic revenue of 3% to 4%.
Based upon these assumptions we expect adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $0.46 to $0.48 which assumes the inclusion of the 2013 R&amp;D tax credit which represents less than $0.01.
This concludes my prepared remarks Jeff.
I guess at this time we would like to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Paul Knight with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Was the acquisition total in the cash flow statement related to the Chinese transaction? Yes.
Yes it was.
Research Division</strong> And then the follow-up would be on the geographical growth that was a high single-digit decline in both Europe and U.S.
and what was behind it? Pharma? No I would say in Europe it was high single -- in the U.S.
actually it was up mid- to high-single.
And then of course the Asia portion was also up high-single.
And I would say the European decline was not restricted to Pharma.
We also saw it on the industrial side as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Muken with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> This is Vijay in for Ross.
So my first question was -- actually I wanted to dig a little bit on the subsegments.
I mean if you look at lab services you did comment OneSource has been -- seen tremendous uptick from bio pharma.
I mean we've seen strong growth in that subsegment.
What's sort of the outlook -- as you look forward sort of -- how long can we expect I guess this strong performance? I think we can continue to see good growth in OneSource because what we've been trying to do particularly over the last probably 6 or 9 months is to look to expand that beyond Pharma.
So I think we see some opportunities particularly as we combine it with our informatics offerings to go into chemical industries and maybe some of the food and beverage opportunities.
So I think we're continuing to believe that we can see mid-single growth maybe even a little bit better than that in the OneSource area.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And my second question was on the guidance.
So what's baked in the guidance in terms of assumptions around sequestration? And do you have anything baked in from the Verinata marketing agreement? So with regard to sequestration as you probably know that's not a -- the NIH funding is not a significant exposure for us.
We think it's probably in the mid-single digit range from a perspective of revenue exposure.
And for purposes over our '13 assumptions market assumptions we're assuming that it will look very similar to what we saw in 2012.
And the way I would describe it is sequestration clearly had an impact on slowing some of the grants and funding down but probably not as strong a decline as you would expect under a call it a full sequestration.
So I mean I guess to sort of give you some kind of sense of impact with about 5% of our revenue exposed.
If there was a 10% decline it would be about a 50 basis point headwind on our organic growth.
We're probably assuming something like half of that which is probably what we saw in 2012.
Just to give you some kind of calibration.
With regard to the Verinata arrangement and again as I mentioned before one we're quite excited about from a long-term implication.
However with regard to 2013 we have a de minimis impact on both the top and bottom line.
Our next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just want to touch on innovation for this year.
You guys have developed a lot of new businesses and acquired other assets.
Anything in particular regarding informatics that we might be able to expect from you this year it's a little on the quiet side there since you made a bunch of acquisitions in 2011.
So just wondering what's going on in informatics.
And then also on Kevin's side with Caliper what can we expect from this franchise this year? So I would say with regard to the informatics we're quite excited about this collaboration we announced and it started in the fourth quarter with Spotfire.
So we're investing in and around that to expand out the capabilities in the life sciences area and we're continuing to build out sort of additional generations of current software releases.
So I think you'll continue to see a big investment in and around the informatics area.
With regard to the LST area maybe I'll just have Kevin talk to that specifically with regard to the innovation.
Yes Isaac I think the key thing that we were very excited about is the Vectra tissue imaging which we had very strong growth really in the second half of 2012 and that's -- our ability there is to multiplex numerous biomarkers simultaneously and companies like Genoptix and Novartis and others have now adopted it for LBT and are able to do some pretty important tests like the four score on breast cancer.
And so we think that this technology is not only going to get continued adoption in 2013 for tissue but we also are now moving it into circulating tumor cells and feel that this whole area is going to continue to broaden out and looking at multiple markers simultaneously as a way to eliminate and reduce false positives and negatives so we're pretty excited about those advances.
I'd say that's the primary area for 2013.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I think I'll just ask a follow-up on margins.
How much -- as you look at your guidance this year how much of the margin upside versus your sort of base case scenario would you say is dependent on top line leverage versus maybe other operational improvement that you're sort of working on in the background.
I think it's about 50-50.
I think in the past we said we needed mid-single digit growth to drive 75 to 100 basis points and I think where we are situated now about 1/2 -- if we hit the volume now about 1/2 of that flow-through will be related to the volume.
Our next question comes line of Dan Brennan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Can you just help think about for '13 in terms of segment dynamics and what type of growth was implied in your mid-single growth across environmental and human health and any notable tough comps we should be aware of as you see it? Yes.
So I would say if you went through the sort of 3 key areas they all were forecasting we'll probably be in the mid-single range.
I think when you think about Diagnostics probably the Screening business we think will probably be a little better in '13.
Andy alluded a little bit to the fact that we're seeing -- we are seeing some positive trends on birth rates in the U.S.
We believe in the fourth quarter that we actually went to positive birth rates probably about 1.5% up on a trailing 12 months.
So we're expecting a little bit better growth on the Screening side.
But to your point of tough comps the Medical Imaging business saw a very strong double-digit growth in 2012.
Some of that was timing oriented relative to customer ordering patterns and that is going to be a headwind we don't expect them to -- obviously to be able to repeat that.
And so we'll probably experience Medical Imaging probably in the low-single digits in 2013.
So when you put that together with a little bit stronger Screening growth we'll probably be looking at mid-single digits.
Again on the Environmental side when you look at both the service and the product side we think that will be mid single-digits.
And now particularly with the Informatics business being combined with the historic LST business we think that's probably going to be mid-single as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then maybe just on the -- a little bit more color on the pacing of the investments that you've been making are making that are going to lead to this increasing leverage in 2014.
Can you help maybe just put a little more details behind some of these investments and kind of how they translate into margins? Yes.
So we've been really talking about probably 3 major programs 2 of them probably dealt more on the cost of sales side with regard to production.
One was actually reducing our footprint and the other was shifting production in the lower-cost areas.
Those -- our anticipation is will be completed probably at the end of the second quarter and so you'll see some benefit in the third and fourth quarter of 2013 and then a full year of benefit in '14.
And then the other one we've been talking about is leveraging our general and administrative costs is mostly our back-office and we're moving that in the sort of low-cost regions.
That's a project that will start to skip some benefits in '13 but we'll continue to sort of drive some additional changes probably throughout the year.
And you probably won't see the full impact of that in 2014.
But I think when we've talked about the potential opportunity here it's -- in those 3 programs alone we're probably in the 50 to 100 basis point margin improvement.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Leonard with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> Rob or Andy is there any way you can give us a sense for how much exposure you have to the environmental issues in China in terms of supplying product into that geography? Yes.
So you know we've talked about China being about 10% of our revenue.
And I would say the portion of our revenue that is at what I would call sort of the broader environmental where you include water and soil and air and food it's probably -- I don't know 30% to 40% of our revenue in that area.
So it's probably in the $60 million plus.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then my follow-up how are you thinking about things like share repurchases in 2013? It looks like that's not in your guidance but I wanted to at least take your temperature on that? Well when I gave -- this is Andy by the way Dan.
When I gave the assumptions for guidance I essentially said flat share count.
So we obviously have some option creep during the year.
So our assumption would be we would certainly take that out.
We obviously have been looking and continue to look at share repurchases.
And we do that vis-à-vis with our capital review and we are also looking at bolt-ons and tuck-ins.
So I think we will keep share count flat I think in a minimum and we'll look at other opportunities as they come up.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Schenkel with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> The first question is really just a follow-up to Dan's question.
Could you share anything in terms of how you're thinking about M&amp;A criteria from here? You got the debt to adjusted EBITDA down to 2.3x.
It doesn't sound like you're going to move forward with a more significant buyback.
It's been a little while since you've been through a period where you've been a bit more acquisitive is this a year where we should expect more or are you thinking more disciplines tuck-in type deals? I think it's more the latter.
I think as we've talked about in the past if you go back to the '08 timeframe we did feel there were some significant gaps in our portfolio that we needed to fill.
As I sort of look at the portfolio today I feel much better about it.
So I don't see any pressing need to go out and do any large deals for that matter.
And so I think what you should expect from us is probably more bolt-ons.
Now relative to 2012 where we did very little I would expect that the pace of small bolt-ons to probably increase in '13.
But again I would -- be unlikely for us to do a large sized deal in this environment.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just going back to your prepared remarks and some of the details that you provided on the different performance across subsegments.
I think you guys indicated that research revenue was about flat organically and I think you attributed this in part to concerns around sequestration and some of the concerns about austerity in Europe.
I believe economic government accounts for under 1/3 of the subsegments sales and you talked about how small your NIH exposure is across the business in response to an earlier question.
So I was hoping that you could just talk about really growth in the research subsegment outside of academic government.
Was growth materially more robust? And if not is there anything else going on there in terms of price or competitive dynamics? I would say the first thing is whenever you think about our Research business you need to keep in mind that $100 million or so of our business is in radiometric detection and radio chemicals.
And that was down sort of high single low double in the quarter.
And so -- and part of that is it is cycling up against some difficult comps relative to on the detection side with the tsunami in Japan during 2011 we were selling a lot of instruments into that segment.
So when you pull that out the segment actually grew pretty well in the pharmaceutical side call it mid single digits.
But of course it gets pulled down by what's going on in the rad area.
Our next question comes from the line of Jon Wood with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Andy can you give us some parameters around cash flow for 2013? Sure.
I mean we obviously are going to get the benefit of some of the AR buildup we saw in the fourth quarter so that will help us a little bit.
I think -- always going in our goal is to deliver free cash flow equal to net income.
I think it will be slightly below that in 2013.
And that's because of finishing out these 3 projects that will require some restructuring that will impact cash flow.
But I think beyond that everything else should be kind of in line with what you would expect from improvement and working capital terms and kind of a 1x net income.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Can you -- are you willing to quantify -- I know you had restructuring charges in '12 related to at least 2 of those major programs.
Can you qualify that? Is that spillover basically into '13 -- in the first half of '13? A lot of the restructuring especially in some of the latter phases of the manufacturing side as well as some of the back-office consolidation really occur in '13.
So it's the incremental piece that's going to impact us and that -- we have not quantified a dollar amount.
There's a lot of things going on that we prefer not to.
But clearly as we wrap up these projects there's going to be some incremental restructuring as we close some of these facilities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But year-over-year that number is lower so there's less restructuring charges in '13? No there will be more restructuring charges in '13.
There will.
Because some of the areas that we're starting to finish up some of the restructuring charges that began in '12 will bleed over into '13 and we also have some new restructuring charges related to some of these that will commence in the second and third quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
Just to be clear we're talking about cash flow right? I'd also love if you could quantify the P&amp;L impact.
I think you gave it was 80 basis points last quarter.
What did that do in the P&amp;L in the quarter and should we expect that same magnitude in the first half of '13? Are you talking about the impact from these charges related to these programs that we're talking about? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
You called out -- I think in the third quarter you called out 80 basis points of OP margin impact...
I think it was about 90 basis points in the fourth quarter.
And I think we will see that continuing on into the first and second quarter.
It will taper off a little bit in the third quarter as the manufacturing programs are completed.
We'll still see the back-office consolidation spend continue really through the middle part of the fourth quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Lawson with Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> Andy I was just wondering if you could give an outlook for gross margins for 2013? And what was pressuring margins in the quarter? Was it mix shift or assay? It was primarily mix and some of the productivity investments we talked about.
I think if you look at 2013 we don't normally give gross margin forecasts but I think we'll see some improvement in gross margins as these programs that we talked about are completed.
And we'll see the benefit of those and then we won't see the spend associated with it as well.
So we should see maybe a little bit of pressure on the margin gross margins in the first half and some benefit in the second half and overall I think it will be a net benefit.
Research Division</strong> What was the impact of mix on the gross margin? Any way of quantifying that? I don't have it cut that finely but it was a large piece of the 110 basis points.
Research Division</strong> And was there any pricing issues? Not that I'm aware of.
I think pricing for us was fairly steady.
Our next question comes from the line of Zarak Khurshid with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> So with respect to Verinata can you just describe how that agreement came to be? And you mentioned some investments there what exactly do those entail? So we had been in discussions with Verinata for some period of time because being a strong player in prenatal particularly on the biochemical screening and with the signatures arrays and we've talked about this in the past where we also are doing some things internally around some R&amp;D projects in noninvasive prenatal but we're also talking to some of the outsider providers as well.
And in looking at at least our assessment of the technology was out there we thought Verinata had the best technology and the best tests.
So like I said we've been in discussions with them for some time and consummated that with the announcement a couple of weeks ago.
And the questions with regard to the investments it's largely around just continuing to build out our channel in prenatal.
I would say build out the channel and train our sales force.
And so we're making some investments with regard to that in the first half here.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just as a quick follow-up could you just elaborate a little bit on the Haoyuan molecular expansion plans for this year? Sure.
So what Haoyuan has is -- think of that as DNA assays around infectious disease.
And it's very complementary to what we do today with SYM-BIO.
SYM-BIO has immunoassays whereas Haoyuan provides the molecular test.
And today most of Haoyuan testing is done in blood banks and so our plan is to take those assays combine them with what we do in SYM-BIO and actually go into the hospital.
And what that will allow us to do is to tell the subtype with regard to the infectious disease.
And so it's very complementary from a testing perspective and we think it will be very complementary to our channel access within China.
Again leveraging our SYM-BIO capabilities.
Our next question comes from the line of Derik De Bruin with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So just actually I just sort of wanted to keep on going with some of the questions that were just asked.
Could you just talk a little bit more about what will be your sales channel for sort of the newborn screening market and prenatal screening markets? I just -- could you touch -- can you just elaborate a little bit on how you've -- what customers you're serving? How you're touching them? Basically how you intend to go to market with this new offering? Is this with prenatal specifically? Research Division</strong> Prenatal I'm just -- in general discussion of your assets there specifically how you're going to take this new prenatal noninvasive test to customers.
Right.
So I think you know Derik we call on the doctors today the MFM's today because we do biochemical screening with NTD.
And in many instances in our discussions with doctors particularly where there's a high risk expecting mother they've been asking us about NIPT.
So I think this is going to be a relatively easy sale for our sales force to basically say and to the extent that they want to do a biochemical screen they go to NTD.
To the extent that they want to do an IPT we give them the verifi test.
And to the extent they want to do a chromosomal analysis we -- I get them in touch with Signature Genomics.
So again it gives us this terrific complementary offering where depending on what the doctor -- depending on the test that the doctor wants to use we can offer again whether it's NTD or the verifi test and they'll get all the same billing from PerkinElmer.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how many people do have out there? How many salespeople do you have doing this? So on the prenatal side we've got about 50.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that hits all the U.S.
geographies and all the major area territories? Yes I would say all the major areas.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And I guess -- I know there's agreements for the U.S.
only but -- so can you discuss then -- do you intend to expand it into more international markets? And then once again similarly what's your channels and sort of like international markets look like? Yes and I would say the other thing before with the U.S.
another important point to make is in addition to the customer contacts in the channel I think maybe even more importantly is we have the contracts with the healthcare providers.
And so I think we mentioned in the press release that we have close to 100 000 -- 170 000 covered lives under contract.
And so I think that's the other significant opportunity or as I think we can accelerate the coverage of NIPT because of the relationships and the contracts we have with the providers.
So when you go outside the U.S.
so outside the U.S.
on a prenatal side we have very extensive capabilities.
We're probably the largest prenatal provider in China from the standpoint of a distribution perspective and very strong capability in Europe as well.
And so the plan ultimately is to potentially extend some of the things we're doing in the U.S.
into the global arena.
Our next question comes from the line of Tycho Peterson with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Maybe -- just one on the service business.
Can you just talk to the o-U.S.
service priorities and opportunities and in general for the service business.
Can you talk about margins how do you see the margin improvement potential there? So I think outside the U.S.
we continue to see good growth there.
Generally what happens is we sort of start working with some pharmaceutical companies it's generally in the U.S.
and then it gets extended into other sites that they have in Europe and in Asia et cetera.
Also at the same time we've been building out our capabilities particularly in the Pac Rim and so we're continuing to see good growth there.
So I expect that to continue.
The margin on service if we're talking about sort of traditional service the margins there continue to be very strong.
I would say above the corporate average.
I would say for the multi-vendor business that's probably a little bit under the corporate average particularly when we first enter into a contract.
But when you look at service together again above the corporate average with regard to operating margins.
Research Division</strong> And then on the emerging markets for the Infectious Disease blood testing business are there catalyst or milestones we should be thinking about? Obviously it's a large market opportunity.
You highlighted you're one of several vendors there.
How should we think about milestones to track that business? Well the way to think about it first of all is the Chinese government has mandated by 2015 that all blood screening be net tested.
And so what is occurring between now and then is various tenders that are going on.
And so as we think about -- so the milestones between now and 2015 virtually all of the blood screening labs in China will have to adopt one of the 5 providers.
And so I guess that's way to think about it as these -- some are obviously larger than others.
But it's really thinking about how the tenders -- how we do in the tenders as we lead up to 2015.
Research Division</strong> Last one just -- can you comment on the mid-tech tax how you're thinking about that that impacting numbers and if you need to [indiscernible]...
For us it's a relatively small impact.
I think with regard to the products that that is imposed upon it's mostly the newborn screening in the U.S.
And so first it's going to be less than $2 million for the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Arias with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a quick one on the Signature Genomics business.
Can you just update us there on a revenue  run rate? And maybe the growth that you're seeing there? It seems like there's some favorable technology trends working for you.
So it would just be great to try and gauge that.
I would say signature on the postnatal side it continues to see some decent growth.
I think the issue with Signature has been historically and I think we've talked about this is we've come out with a new chip in the oncology area and just getting reimbursement from the providers has taken much longer than we had anticipated.
So I would say that on the Signature side well I wouldn't get into the specific details from a revenue growth and a revenue size because it will just sort of try to get down -- try not to get into the sort of subsegments of all the businesses.
But I would say in some areas we're pleased with the growth in some of the areas we're a little disappointed like I said because of the uptake in the reimbursement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But the constitutional side of things you would say is probably more favorable than not? Yes.
I would say the non-oncology side is probably doing better than the oncology side that's how I will probably describe it.
Research Division</strong> And then you made an interesting comment earlier this month when you talked about the opportunity that you see in newborn screening in rest of the world areas if things improve and will move beyond the single test.
So I guess my question is do you see momentum for that happening in a way that you think that test numbers could begin to increase? I guess how realizable is that bigger rest of world opportunity...
Yes.
So I would say we in fact have been seeing that.
I mean I think if you look over the last couple of years we've gone from probably screening in 70 or so countries and now we're doing in the low 90s.
So we continue to see the adoption both in countries and even within those countries where they might do 1 or 2 sort of expanding into more tests.
I mean that's clearly the case in China.
So I think the numbers you're referring to is if you look at the 130 million births across the globe generally 122 million of those are outside U.S.
and Europe.
And so that's really -- we see as a significant opportunity for us.
And just to sort of calibrate things if the rest of the world adopts screening at the level of 1/3 of what the U.S.
does it becomes a $1 billion opportunity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you do think though that -- I mean if you just sort of moderate the expectations a little bit you think that that number could start creeping up closer to 50 from 45 or so in the nearer term? Yes you mean as far -- yes I think that's correct.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Groberg with Macquarie.
So Rob you talked on that growth and productivity investments this year you talked a little bit on the productivity side and what you expect.
But what about on the growth? Like where do you expect the biggest impact in 2014 and what kind of impact could that be on the growth rate? So if you look at some of the areas that I identified as investments in '13 it was really around emerging markets particularly in the diagnostic areas.
So I think we would continue to see significant growth there.
It was in the informatics area where I think we're still very bullish about that and we feel good about that.
And then it was also in the prenatal channel.
And I think by 2014 that could be a significant number for us.
So rather than getting specific guidance for 2014 I think you could see an acceleration of our organic growth of beyond sort of traditional mid-single digits.
Okay.
And then just on that prenatal channel I know there are some questions but just kind of conceptually why did you partner for this test rather than just acquire someone or offer your own? It seems like the economics would probably be better to just offer your own test no? I think as we looked at the landscape obviously there are still some technology risk with regard to IP.
And I think by entering into a collaboration with Verinata while we're -- as I mentioned before we think it's the best technology and we think they've got a terrific test it does lead us -- give us the opportunity to pursue other technologies down the road.
If either something comes out and has a better technology or again depending on what happens from an IP perspective.
So I think it's maintain the flexibility from a test offering perspective but while in the short term here getting our customers probably the best product that's on the market.
And what kind of economics do you get when you sell the test? And what kind of add use for that? Well -- we're not going into the specifics of the agreement basically they're confidential.
Okay.
But nothing precludes you from -- if you wanted to offer your own test from doing that.
Is there some timeframe that you can't do that? Or you're webbed to this test for a certain period of time? Or there's nothing to preclude you from -- if you wanted to offer a test? I think the way to think about it is in the short term I don't see us coming up with a competing test.
Okay.
fair enough.
And then just -- sorry 2 quick ones on Human Health.
One I think you had about 1 month of Caliper right? And I think your revenues were up about $15 million sequentially.
So what was the impact from Caliper and -- I'm sorry what was the impact from Caliper? And then also what was the asset impairment in Human Health? It seems like that was a fairly decent sized number.
Caliper was about $10 million in the quarter for this year.
So it's a little less than $15 million.
It had no impact at all on our organic growth.
And the impairment the way to think about that is we've had as you know a number of acquisitions over the last couple of years.
And for a long period of time we are sort of maintaining the brands and the trademarks for that period of time so Packard and Enian [ph] et cetera.
We made a decision at the end of the year to sort of clean that up.
And so that required a -- or resulted in an impairment charge with regard to some of the trademarks that were on the buckets a non-cash charge.
And basically going forward we're going to move toward the PerkinElmer brand.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Elliott with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> In your prepared remarks you mentioned seeing some BRIC moderation I'm curious what's driving that and when do you think we can see that turn around? I mean I think the biggest part of that is very difficult comparisons.
I think for the most part we didn't see anything structural or otherwise.
I think we're going to see the same thing again in the first quarter.
Just to give you some perspective we were up north of 30% in the fourth quarter last year.
So just -- it's really just more comparison related.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the time we have for questions.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Friel for concluding remarks.
Great.
So first of all thank you for your questions and your continued interest in PerkinElmer.
In closing as we enter 2013 I'm confident that PerkinElmer is well positioned for another year during which we will continue to deliver strong shareholder returns and accelerate our growth through our focused approach on building our innovative capabilities in targeting high-growth markets.
Again thank you for your interest in PerkinElmer and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter 1 2013 PerkinElmer Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jillian and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Tommy Thomas Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thanks Jillian.
Good afternoon and welcome to the PerkinElmer First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
With me on the call are Rob Friel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Wilson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
If you have not received a copy of our earnings press release you may get one from the Investors section of our website at www.perkinelmer.com.
Please note that this call is being webcast live and will be archived on our website until May 9 2013.
Before we begin we need to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor statements that we have outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings.
Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views only as of today.
We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements in the future even if our estimates change.
So you should not rely on any of today's forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date after today.
During this call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available as an attachment to our earnings press release.
To the extent we use non-GAAP financial measures during the call that are not reconciled to GAAP in that attachment we'll provide reconciliations promptly.
I'm now pleased to introduce the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PerkinElmer Rob Friel.
Rob? Thanks Tommy.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
As many of you may have seen in our earnings release in the first quarter this year we experienced a 1% decline in revenue following 12 consecutive quarters of greater than 3% organic growth.
This lower-than-expected revenue combined with our previously communicated growth and productivity investments resulted in lower operating profit and consequently adjusted EPS was lower than both our forecast in Q1 of last year.
During today's call I will summarize what caused our top line miss how it impacted our financial performance this quarter as well as what we expect for the rest of the year.
In addition I will discuss several of the qualitative accomplishments this quarter.
Turning first to our revenue in the quarter.
85% of our product lines performed as we expected and grew quite well during the first quarter.
Our shortfall in the quarter was almost exclusively due to 3 distinct parts of our business that together represent about 15% of our revenue.
While a small portion of our business the magnitude of the decline in these areas drove the overall 1% organic revenue decline.
The first of these areas was our environmental instrument business in Western Europe which declined midteens versus our expectation of low single-digit declines.
While the revenue declines were fairly broad-based and not restricted to any one country from an end market perspective the most significant headwinds were felt in the industrial end markets.
As some of you may recall at the beginning of 2012 we were quite bearish on macroeconomic conditions in Western Europe and planned accordingly.
Despite the difficult operating environment in 2012 we were able to significantly exceed our projections in both Q1 and Q2.
Although we remain cautious this year conditions proved to be more challenging than we had anticipated.
The second area of unanticipated weakness was in Japan.
Japan represents about 5% of our revenue and has recently been growing high single digits.
In fact I was there at the end of 2012 attending a large customer event and did not detect any concern for funding or reduction in demand.
Our forecast assumed a slight decline in Japan in the first quarter due to difficult year-over-year comparisons resulting from strong sales of our radiometric detection instruments generated from the disaster response in 2011 and early 2012.
However our actual results declined over 25%.
Lags in government funding resulted from the delay of supplementary budget approval along with the lower yen and a general cautionary spending environment impacted not only our radiometric detection business but the majority of our product offerings across the portfolio in Japan.
The third factor impacting this quarter's financial performance was a significant decline in our in vivo imaging business a product line that has a been historically long strong performer generating midteens growth and one which we believe we have very strong market share.
As a portion of this business that's exposed through academic funding in the U.S.
we assumed its growth would moderate to mid-single digits in the early part of this year due to concerns over sequestration.
However this business was also down more than 25% in the quarter as delays in funding for academic laboratories brought on by austerity concerns were more severe not only in the United States but internationally as well.
Due to the significant costs in our in vivo instruments and our strong share in this business we generally have a strong indication of which customers will purchase and when purchase orders will be received.
Going into March we believed that we had good line of sight to achieve our in vivo forecast.
Unfortunately the majority of our deal pipeline was pushed out due to a number of reasons which fundamentally centered on concerns over the uncertainty of future funding.
Fortunately we do not believe any of these deals were lost and believe most of the projected first quarter orders will result in future purchases.
Before discussing our adjusted operating profit I would like to briefly touch on the remaining 85% of our business which as I mentioned previously performed quite well and continues to generate very good growth.
Our Diagnostic business grew mid-single digits and with contributions for both screening and medical imaging.
Our screening business experienced good growth across every product area and geography and with the newborn area growing double digits and our business in China continue to expand over 20%.
Also of note this quarter was that based on our newborn screening data that appears that birth rates in the U.S.
have increased almost 3% in the last 12 months.
In the Medical Imaging business despite difficult year-over-year comparisons we continued to grow mid-single digits and in fact shipped the largest number of panels in the history of the business.
Turning to our research business.
We experienced good growth in those areas where we have prioritized our investments including sample prep for next-gen sequencing and reagents for the biotherapeutic area and High Content Screening.
And our informatics business continues to perform well growing over 20% in the quarter.
Finally in the environmental business while our instruments have come under pressure as I mentioned previously particularly in Europe and Japan the service business continues to grow expanding mid-single digits as we win new customers with our comprehensive OneSource program.
Turning now to operating income.
When we issued guidance we discussed our plans to use the incremental profit from our planned growth in the first quarter of the year to complete several productivity projects as well as fuel incremental growth investments.
Therefore we guided to minimal adjusted operating margin expansion in the first half of this year.
Since our revenue actually declined slightly in the quarter rather than increase we obviously did not generate any incremental profit from the higher revenue.
And as a result our incremental costs have resulted in lower operating margins year-over-year.
In addition as our revenue shortfall did not become apparent until very late in the quarter we did not have an opportunity to offset the revenue miss.
Furthermore much of the revenue that experienced the unexpected contraction carries some of our highest gross margins which further compounded the profit delta and resulted in a very high percentage of the revenue miss flowing through to the bottom line.
And for the remainder of the year we've reforecasted both the top and bottom line assumptions to reflect more modest revenue growth particularly in the short term.
Specifically we are assuming our demand profile in Q2 is similar to Q1 with Europe and Japan continuing to be challenging.
However we believe our in vivo imaging business will return to positive organic growth this quarter.
As we move into the second half of this year we believe the severity of the headwinds will moderate and we will return to an organic growth rate more similar to what we had in plan albeit probably at the lower end of our original forecast.
Consequently we now believe that for the full year we will grow organically in low single digits as compared to mid-single digits communicated in January.
In an effort to offset some of the profit miss from the lower revenue forecast we will be both moderating our investment plans for the remainder of the year as well as pursuing additional prudent cost actions and accelerating some previously planned productivity actions.
However given that the large bulk of our business continues to perform as planned and are in attractive growth markets we believe it is important to maintain the appropriate balance between investing in growth and disciplined cost management.
While Andy will cover the specifics of the guidance overall we believe Q2 will be another difficult quarter where our financial results will be below last year.
However we believe that through actions we plan to take in Q2 and some recovery in the impacted areas the adjusted operating income and adjusted EPS for the second half of the year to be close to our original guidance.
Before turning the call over to Andy to cover our financial results in more detail I would like to quickly highlight some of the areas where we made good progress in the quarter against our management priorities for the year.
First of all in the quarter we continued to make strong headway on rationalizing our production footprint and are on target to transfer manufacturing several product lines to lower-cost regions by the end of June.
We are accelerating our efforts to expand our global reach most recently through opening of our new South African office.
And we are in the process of growing our direct presence in other expanding economies such as Turkey Israel and Vietnam.
This quarter we continued our efforts through developing the next generation of screening assays for genetic diseases such as SCIDS which we discussed last quarter and have now deployed as well as Fragile X a genetic disease that can result in mental retardation and neuro degeneration.
This assay has already been successful with our collaborators in Hong Kong and we look forward to expanding use later this year.
Additionally our recently introduced Spectrum Two infrared spectrometer instrument has been introduced in the air monitoring food analysis oil analysis and a wide array of applications within customers that meet expanding needs in measuring contamination in the world around us.
We also continue to expand our prenatal and informatics capabilities in the quarter and we are pleased to announce the expansion of our contract with Aetna to include an IPT screening.
Aetna's approximately 20 million covered patients will now have access to Verinata Health's verify prenatal test helping to accelerate the broader adoption of noninvasive prenatal testing.
Now let me turn the call over to Andy and then we'll open the call to your questions.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon everyone.
Consistent with prior quarters I'll provide additional color on our end markets the financial summary of our first quarter results and details around our revised 2013 guidance.
And then we'll open up the call for any questions you might have.
As Rob mentioned earlier the majority of our businesses performed as expected.
We did however experience declines in instrument demand late in the quarter concentrated in 3 key areas.
Specifically we saw declines in the environmental instrument business in Western Europe overall weaker demand in Japan and significant declines within the in vivo imaging business.
I will provide additional details on our top line performance later in my prepared remarks.
Reported revenue for the first quarter declined 1% while adjusted revenue declined by 2% to $507 million as compared to the first quarter 2012.
Organic revenue for the quarter declined 1% as compared to the same period a year ago.
Adjusted earnings per share for the first quarter was $0.36 as compared to $0.43 in the same period a year ago impacted by the lack of volume growth and negative mix with the decline in higher-margin revenue and incremental growth in productivity investments deployed through the quarter.
By geography organic revenue in the Americas grew low single digits.
Asia declined low single digits and Europe declined at a high single digit rate.
China remained resilient with growth of approximately 20%.
Looking at organic revenue by product category.
Recurring revenue which includes reagents consumables and service was solid with mid-single digit growth in the quarter.
This was the -- primarily the result of continued demand for our diagnostic products and strength in our OneSource and informatics offerings.
Instruments declined at a high single digit rate negatively impacted by delayed capital equipment spending due to funding delays primarily in Europe and Japan as we discussed.
From an end market perspective PerkinElmer's Human Health segment represented approximately 56% of reported revenue in the quarter.
We served 2 end markets in Human Health: diagnostics which represented 29% of reported revenue; and research which represented 27% of reported revenue.
Organic revenues for the Human Health segment were flat in the quarter.
Organic revenue in our Diagnostics business increased mid-single digits during the quarter with continuing contributions for both our screening and Medical Imaging offerings.
Our screening business benefited from increasing birth rates in the U.S.
and the expansion of our prenatal newborn and infectious disease solutions in key regions outside the U.S.
We continue to be pleased with our organic revenue performance for the Diagnostics market in China which delivered organic growth above 20% once again in the first quarter of 2013.
As Rob mentioned we remain optimistic regarding our partnership with Verinata and also we're encouraged by the progress we've made since we launched on February 1.
We are also delighted that Aetna will now begin offering the Verinata's verify noninvasive prenatal tests to their 20 million members.
Moving to Medical Imaging.
The organic revenue grew mid-single digits despite a difficult year-over-year comparison of over 20% organic revenue growth in the first quarter of 2012.
This business continues to benefit from OEM relationships in the traditional medical diagnostic imaging offerings while our CMOS imaging technology continues to be selected for use in adjacent high-growth verticals including a number of incremental wins in the quarter for industrial nondestructive testing applications.
Turning to our Research business.
We experienced mid-single digit declines in the quarter versus the comparable period in 2012 as sequestration concerns in the U.S.
European austerity and weak research markets in Asia most notably Japan contributed to unexpected delays and push outs late in the quarter in 2 key product lines.
Specifically in vivo imaging declined over 20% a result of delays in both the U.S.
and Europe while radiometric detection instruments declined significantly due primarily to softness in Japan.
Declines in these higher-margin product lines also adversely impacted adjusted operating margins.
Regarding informatics we continue to be pleased with our innovative product offerings which once again had organic revenue growth in excess of 20% as compared to the same period a year ago driven by a strong performance from our Spotfire offering and solid demand for the core lab notebook.
We are proud to report that our Ensemble Electronic Lab Notebooks solutions for chemistry biology and quality assurance and control received superior accolades in Gartner's ELN industry study earlier in the quarter.
As you will recall informatics is now reported as a part of our Human Health segment within the Research business.
Moving to Environmental Health which represented 44% of reported revenue in the first quarter we serve 3 end markets: laboratory services which represented 19% of reported revenue; environmental and safety which represented 17% of reported revenue; and industrial which represented 8% of reported revenue.
During the quarter we experienced mid-single digit organic growth in laboratory services.
Within environmental and safety we saw low single-digit organic revenue declines while industrial experienced a mid-teens organic revenue decline as both of these markets were impacted by lower demand particularly in Europe and Japan as compared to the same period a year ago.
Turning to our adjusted margin performance in the period.
Adjusted operating margins in the first quarter were 12.6% as compared to 15.3% in the comparable period a year ago.
The key drivers of the significant year-over-year decline were lower revenue an unfavorable mix as I mentioned earlier as well as our previously announced growth in productivity investments as well as some currency headwinds.
Adjusted operating income was $63.7 million as compared to $79 million in the comparable period a year ago as lower gross margins were modestly offset by productivity actions in SG&amp;A.
By segment adjusted operating margins in our Human Health segment for the quarter were 17.8% representing a decline of approximately 160 basis points as compared to the first quarter of 2012.
This decline was primarily attributable to the adverse mix in our Research business and growth in productivity investments deployed in the quarter.
Our Environmental Health segment delivered adjusted operating margins of 10.4% in the first quarter of 2013 as compared to 14.8% a year ago.
This decline is due to lower revenue volumes resulting from weaker industrial end markets specifically in Europe and Japan and an unfavorable instrument mix.
GAAP operating income from continuing operations was $35.9 million in the first quarter of 2013 as compared to $36.4 million in the same period a year ago due primarily to lower revenues mitigated somewhat by lower SG&amp;A spending.
On a non-GAAP basis our adjusted tax rate was approximately 21% and we now expect our adjusted tax rate for 2013 to be approximately 22%.
GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2013 was $0.28 as compared to $0.19 per share in first quarter of last year.
As mentioned adjusted earnings per share was $0.36 in the first quarter of 2013 as compared to $0.43 in the comparable period one year ago.
During the first quarter of 2013 we purchased 3.6 million shares of our common stock for approximately $123 million leaving approximately 2.4 million shares remaining under our current board authorization.
As a result we finished the first quarter with approximately $1 billion of debt and approximately $126 million of cash.
Looking at our cash flow performance.
Operating cash flow from continuing operations was $11 million as compared to $15 million in 2012.
Operating cash flow was impacted by approximately $60 million due to voluntary pension contributions and prepaid royalties paid in the quarter.
As a result of these payments we do not expect to make any contributions to our U.S.
pension plan through 2017 and no further royalty is required under this specific multi-year license agreement.
Moving to our 2013 guidance.
As Rob mentioned we reassessed our assumptions for the balance of the year reflecting more modest revenue growth expectations.
We will also be moderating our investment plans over the remainder of the year as well as pursuing appropriate cost actions and accelerating previously planned productivity actions.
As a result of these factors we now expect adjusted organic revenue for the full year to grow low single digits as compared to our original guidance of mid-single-digit growth with full year adjusted earnings per share for 2013 to be in the range of $2 to $2.10.
This guidance assumes interest expense of approximately $45 million and adjusted tax rate of 22% for the year and a weighted average diluted share count of approximately 113 million shares.
For the second quarter of 2013 we expect organic revenue growth to be in the range of 0% to 2% with adjusted earnings per share to be in a slightly wider range of $0.46 to $0.50.
As I mentioned on the second quarter call last year our second quarter results benefited from higher-margin licensing revenue which we do not expect to reoccur in the second quarter of 2013.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And operator we would like to open up the call for questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Paul Knight CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Rob if you recall the gas chromatography spectroscopy I think that's what you would define as environmental analytical instruments.
I guess you are assuming that like past cycles that this is what down for another quarter or 2? Yes I think that's fair.
A lot of it -- what we're seeing Paul actually is it's dependent to a large extent on geography.
So actually in the U.S.
we saw growth -- slight growth in our analytical instruments in the first quarter.
But as I mentioned we saw fairly significant declines in Europe and Japan.
China continues to do quite well.
So actually when we look at the growth profile of the company it seems to be more impacted by geographic region than necessarily application or technique.
Research Division</strong> So meaning across-the-board on the analytical instruments side Raman spectroscopy GC LC et cetera? Yes I would say across the technologies.
Again when you're thinking about the decline in Japan and Europe it was pretty much across almost the entire portfolio.
Research Division</strong> And then on the Japan side you mentioned down 25%.
I guess 17% of that 25% is from the yen so kind of a mid upper single digit decline in the organic on the Japan side is that the way we should think about it? I would say on the currency side it was probably closer to 10%.
And so on an organic basis it's probably closer to 15%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the in vivo side I guess this is the animal imaging technology.
What's the ASP on those units? It's high right like 250? Yes it's that -- in north of that.
Research Division</strong> Is the academic side on the in vivo that was soft? Yes absolutely.
And we expect it because the sequestration that it was going to be softer.
As I mentioned in my prepared remarks this is a business that's been growing consistently midteens or better.
And we expected some moderation of that but we're quite frankly surprised by what happened in the first quarter.
I think my own view is that I think there's a -- there was a lot of uncertainty as to how budgets would be handled and of course people were trying to preserve on to labor and maybe other types of expenses.
So they really pushed off a lot particularly the large capital expenditures.
I will say we have started to see in early part of April some of that come back.
And so as I mentioned we're fairly optimistic that in this business returns to at least mid- to high single digits for the remainder of the year.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then last I guess in Europe can you say what industries? Was it oil gas petroleum refining? Was it that area? Yes.
I would say it's largely in the chemical and energy area.
I mean the 2 that I would spike out as where we saw a fairly significant cut back from instrument purchases.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Muken ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Obviously a pretty rough quarter.
I think as you look at the results I mean the thing that stands out to me and sort of the decremental which shows obviously as you said in some parts you didn't see the sort of revenue miss come probably until late in the quarter so you weren't able to adjust spending.
I guess when you sort of went back and you sort of sat down with heads of divisions or with the sales force I mean how do you feel -- as you sort of think about when you were projecting out for the next quarter how did you get comfort that you kind of got a hold on sort of where those businesses are and sort of the causes behind some of the -- I guess pauses or pullbacks in demand? And then how much of it going forward is just going to be now you have to be a lot more proactive on the cost management because obviously you don't want to have 150% decremental margins for more than one quarter.
Yes.
So I would say first of all it's 15% of our revenue we're talking about here so -- and again in these 3 components I think first of all if you take in vivo imaging it's a business that we have a good share in so we think we understand almost product by product or customer by customer what happened in the first quarter and we can track those.
And so again we're starting to see some recovery.
So I think we've got a pretty good handle on what's going on there.
Of course you still have the risk of uncertainty around funding.
So we -- like I said we think this recovers -- starts to recover in the second quarter and in the back half start to get more to what we've seen historically.
I think in the case of Japan as we look back in hindsight and understand it I think a lot of it was this issue with the supplemental budget that was pushed.
Our view is that when you had a change in government you created some uncertainty -- and keep in mind one of the bigger pieces of our business in Japan is the radiometric detection and a lot of that is government funded.
And so we think that will sort itself out over the year.
And so we do think there's some recovery there as well.
I think the bigger question for us is Europe.
And as I mentioned before and as you recall we -- in 2012 we're fairly bearish on Europe and we're surprised with the upside in first half.
And so consequently I think we're probably more optimistic in our projections than we probably needed to be.
So as we think about the rest of the year I think Japan will recover I think in vitro will recover -- we're still fairly cautious on Europe and that's how we tried to build our forecast in trying to be a forecast that we think is accurate but also achievable.
Research Division</strong> And so when you think about managing the business the next quarter or 2.
I mean this has -- when you saw the roll up you had to be pretty disappointed.
I mean this is a pretty terrible outcome from at least in earnings and op income standpoint.
And so I guess when you're thinking about what you need to be ready to do or how you need to sort of be proactive to kind of manage through this tough environment what are the sorts of things internally you guys have been discussing? And what sort of in the thought process of -- we obviously don't want to have another delta of this magnitude versus sort of your forecast in the Street.
And so what's sort have been the discussion point around that on your side? Yes.
I think the other thing to point out is that as you mentioned there -- it's not just a revenue drop but I think probably more surprising than the revenue drop is the flow-through.
So whether you look at for example year-over-year we've got over 100% of flow-through where our operating profit decline is greater than our revenue decline and when you look at relative to plan even it's fairly high.
I think one of the things that was unfortunate particularly in the first half was that we went into this year again assuming we were going to see some growth.
And so we were investing both from a R&amp;D and growth perspective as well as from a productivity program.
And so again with sort of a drop late in the quarter we couldn't respond to that and so consequently you're seeing increasing costs and no revenue to cover that.
And so that's really what's caused the significant flow-through.
So consequently we are looking at a couple of things.
We'll probably take some of those investments and defer those given the revenue drop.
We're also looking at pulling in some further productivity plans that we had on track for maybe later in the year in 2014.
So I think as we've talked to you in the past is we think we've got a series of things that we can do that continue to drive efficiency through the organization.
And then the third thing is we will take a hard look particularly in those areas where we're not seeing the growth and in fact seeing accelerating declines and we will take some cost actions there.
So combination of cost actions in the areas where we're seeing declines accelerating productivity plans that we would have done either later in the year an '14 and a deferral of some of the investment plans that we had in the second quarter and either later in the year or into 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Schenkel Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just to run through some math.
If 85% of your revenue grew at close to mid-single digit levels the other 15% would seemingly have had to have declined over 30%.
Put differently I believe we're talking about a base of about $75 million to $80 million in revenue accounting for what was over a $20 million miss relative to expectations.
And again this was all late in the quarter.
This seems pretty remarkable again given you said that you were on track until late in the quarter.
So just to be clear was the other 85% of your business truly in line with expectations? So let me just help you a little bit with the numbers.
The 85% grew about $3 million and the 15% declined about $25 million so those are the numbers.
So the answer to your question is yes.
If you look at the 85% -- now if you look at those products and geographies those businesses generally were not off more than $1 million individually.
Now of course you have some that are up a little bit some that were down a little bit and that's basically all it says [ph].
But the fundamental the 85% of the revenue as I said it did as we projected.
With regard to the -- late in the quarter we look at our revenue through the quarter on a week-by-week basis and measure the percentage of revenue we've achieved to date and compare that sequentially to the percentage in Q4 and we compare it year-over-year to the percentage in Q1.
And actually if you look at week 12 and actually up through week 11 we were tracking within 50 basis points of where we needed to be.
And there was really only in week -- partly in week 12 that we started to see a decline that ended up resulting in the call it $25 million miss to the revenue.
Now having said that particularly when you're talking about instruments a big portion of our instruments occur in the last couple of weeks of the quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
You indicated I guess just kind of digging in again more on the math that Asia-Pac declined low single digits? We talked a lot about Japan.
I believe that only accounts for about 5% of sales maybe that's higher this quarter typically given it's the end of the fiscal year.
But you combined that with the fact that I believe you said China growth was still strong.
Were there other pronounced areas of weakness in the region? The 2 other areas were Korea and Southeast Asia that were really declining significant double digits.
So those combined with Japan unfortunately offset a relatively good performance in China.
But again going back to my comments before there were other areas that were declined.
But in these instances this was planned either because of difficult year-over-year comparisons or various dynamics that were going on in those countries either from sort of a mix.
Your next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the cost savings that you guys are pulling forward from 2014 can you maybe put a little more detail around what kinds of cost savings they are? And then maybe update us on some of the facility consolidation works you have in store this year just wondering how much that will help in the back half of the year.
All right.
Well let me take the first one and maybe Andy can talk about the status of productivity.
So I think as we sort of laid out a roadmap in the past we talked about initially doing some things from a sourcing perspective doing some things from a factory consolidation and doing some things from a back-office.
I think the other opportunity is to do some things on how we go to market.
So from a selling and marketing perspective also as I mentioned in some instances maybe going direct versus indirect.
So those are the types of things that we had teed up largely for 2014.
I think we'll look for opportunities to pull that in earlier into 2013.
And on the other question we are actually relatively complete with one of our facility moves which is really the transfer of manufacturing to Singapore and China and we will start to see the benefit of that in the second quarter and then the full benefit at the third and fourth.
On the other facility consolidation in the U.S.
where we're consolidating 3 facilities into 1 the actual activity will be completed in the second quarter we'll start to see that benefit as well in the second half.
And the spending we -- within the first quarter the spending was a little over $5 million for these projects -- for these growth and productivity projects.
That will decline some but the savings we're going to generate just from the manufacturing and restructuring on an annualized basis is about $15 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just Rob if I could press you a little bit on the longer-term picture for the business.
If we look at the short-term disruption and put that aside for a minute I think last quarter you guys were relatively optimistic that the organic growth of the company could accelerate beyond the mid-single digit range in the out years is that still a fair characterization? Yes.
I don't think there's anything that occurred this quarter that changes our mind with regard to that.
And again that's what I wanted to sort of reemphasize the point that -- well obviously we want to be responsive to what we're seeing from a revenue shortfall here in the first quarter.
We want to make sure that we're balanced from the standpoint of trying to attack the cost in the areas where we think it's appropriate but we want to continue to fuel this significant opportunities we see.
Because we do think with the portfolio we have now and the end markets that we serve that we do think there's an opportunity to sort of expand faster than mid-single digit.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then last -- one cleanup item on the financials Andy.
You guys repurchased I think about 3.5 million shares this quarter a little more than we had in our model can you just talk about incremental uses of cash for the balance of the year just given that you guys didn't update the share count guidance? Yes.
I think as I said our share count for this year will be about 113 million.
We had indicated going to the year we would take out but it was essentially the option creep from 2011 and we did that.
I think going forward we have an acquisition pipeline primarily of bolt-ons that we're continuing to work through and I think there's some opportunity there.
And we will continue to look at further share buybacks as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Bhalla Citi.
Research Division</strong> Rob or Andy when you're talking about moderating investments I wanted to see if you could give a little more detail there because I think in the past you've talked about investments in China and Molecular Diagnostics the NIPT channel and some informatics.
So what exactly are you going to be moderating on the investment side? I think what we'll try to do in here some of those investments to the extent that they were sort of people some of them were sort of marketing and training and those types of things.
And what we'll probably do is sort of delay some of those rather than say being in the second quarter and maybe we'll wait and look to see how this revenue grows.
If we get more comfortable that the third quarter will be at least as we project or maybe better we'll start to feather those out a little later in the year or if we have to hold them off to '14.
So I would say it's generally in the areas you mentioned there and we'll just sort of moderate that as we see the revenue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second question is on Medical Imaging.
I know the performance was fine in the quarter but can you just talk to what's happening on flat panel pricing and the competitive dynamics? Anything that we should be aware of that could take place later in the year.
I don't see anything happening on the competitive dynamics that should have any impact on our Medical Imaging business.
I think we still feel very good about our share.
I think with regard to pricing and this is something we talked about in the past this is a business that every year generally has pricing decreases that are in the last cases contractual with our customers.
Because as volume increases generally it's -- think about fab economics the incremental costs to produce that additional panel is fairly low and so some of that is shared with the customers.
So generally in any given year we're probably looking to 100 basis points or so margin contraction and 2013 is similar.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Groberg Macquarie.
Rob I guess one question with -- I know you said it's hard to kind of de-convolute [ph] what's going on with Caliper but just given since that was a big investment what did Caliper grow? I know that in vivo was down it sounded like you said sample prep was still up so maybe just some color there? Yes.
I would say again it's getting harder and harder to do but I would say given the magnitude of the drop in in vivo Caliper would've been negative in the quarter.
I would say it was probably something in the high single digit decline.
But as we think about those products and those applications we still feel very good about it.
As I said I do believe the in vivo imaging has probably mid-teen opportunities as we sort of go out later in the year and into '14.
We continue to feel very good about the microfluidics business and think that will see very strong growth in the back half of the year.
And I mentioned the fact that sample prep around NGS saw good growth in the quarter and I think that will continue to do well.
I mean one of the challenges is as we talked about some of the cannibalization so we saw very strong growth in our JANUS liquid handling.
And some of that was cannibalization of some of the Caliper liquid handling business.
Okay that's helpful.
And then obviously we've been hearing a few company's reports and it's kind of tough to piece together exactly what's going on and obviously not everybody sells the exact same product in the exact same market.
But I don't know I guess as you kind of see the business and you think about the M&amp;A opportunities that Andy was referring to does anything that you're seeing right now or kind of as you consummated that does it change how you're thinking about which businesses you want to invest more in versus ones that you want to invest less in? I don't think so.
I think we still feel good about the growth prospects for all the business.
And like I said I don't -- well obviously from a cost and investment perspective we want to sort of get after this.
I don't think we want to sort of overreact from a sort of one quarter phenomena here.
And again I think it's fairly geographically focused in Japan and Europe and of course the sequestration impact in the U.S.
So I think we'll continue to look across the portfolio.
There are areas of the portfolio that we feel better about from the macro trend.
So -- and it's clearly some of the areas of Diagnostics continue to be attractive.
And again we saw a good growth in Q1.
Informatics I think is an area that again put up very strong numbers in the first quarter and so I would like to continue to build our capability there.
I think that is something that somewhat differentiates us relative to some of the other peers.
And of course China is an area that with 20% growth is an area that will continue to -- will try and build out our capability there.
I guess one thing I was kind of contemplating and that was helpful is do you see -- given someone like Thermo who's really increasing their scale and some of the other players that have really increased scale I mean do you see any of the things going on in some of these businesses as where it's more difficult for you to compete and there are certain areas that you should either get out of divest or deemphasize or you don't see this as a share issue it’s more of a mix issue? I would say clearly the competitive landscape is changing.
But I think we still feel good about our position in the areas where we're focused.
And again our strategy has been a little different in that we're not really trying to sort of be sort of all things to all people.
What we're trying to be is very focused in areas where we think our technology and our intellectual property can be differentiated and hopefully we can target those in areas that have a little higher growth.
So I think we continually are assessing our portfolio.
And if there are some product lines on the margin we think there should be somebody else that might be a better owner we'll continue to look at that.
But I would say for the most part we feel good about our positions we feel good about our technologies and we think we can continue to be fairly differentiated in our offerings.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Arias UBS.
Research Division</strong> Rob over the last couple of quarters you've kind of expressed a level of comfort with the potential impact from NIH exposure.
So I guess is it just the magnitude of the decline that caught you by surprise or given that it's not always easy to pinpoint where resources are coming from.
You found that maybe federal funding is a bit more meaningful than you thought? I think first of all the magnitude of the impact I think did catch us by surprise.
I think we were saying it could be 10% to 20%.
I think clearly it was more than that.
And my comment previous was I think a part of the issue has been just the uncertainty.
I think a lot of the labs are still trying to figure out how it's going to work will they reach back and cut some grants that have been issued previously? And so I think the magnitude of it was a little higher.
I think the other thing is well I think it's difficult to tie it directly to sequestration.
I think there has clearly been a ripple effect with general austerity.
Because again I'm not sure our exposure is any different than what we thought and we I think sort of calibrated that around mid-single digits.
But we were surprised to see the global aspects of it.
So again the in vivo business has probably 50% of its business outside the U.S.
but we saw researchers in Brazil and researchers in Asia and researchers in Europe pulling back as well.
So I think the general sort of economic austerity we were surprised by.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
That's good color.
And then maybe a strategic one on the RAD business do you still feel like that's something that makes sense in the portfolio? And if so what's sort of the pitch for those assets at this point? Well the issue this quarter was really more of the RAD detection so it's a little different than the issues that we've seen historically.
The RAD detection business it's grown modestly I would say over the last couple of years.
It had a pop because of the tsunami in Japan.
But I think what you're probably referring to more is the RAD radiochemical business which again saw probably a mid- to high-digit decline from a year-over-year perspective.
Again that was something planned that's something we've seen for quite some time here.
And I think as we think about it it does give us some ability to discuss with certain labs.
And we think about disposing of it we're not sure that we would get a lot of value.
Our view is that people will probably just discount the cash annuity.
And so as we think about the opportunity to bundle it with some things that we do we think it still probably makes sense for the stay in the portfolio but we don't think it's probably ever going to be a significant grower.
Your next question comes from the line of Daniel Brennan Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Regarding the in vivo business what's implied in the remainder of your '13 guidance for in vivo growth? And could you share with us Rob the details.
Like what gives you confidence in that business recovering towards double digits which I think you mentioned earlier in the call? Yes.
I would say for the rest of the year it's probably high single low double is what we're assuming.
And I would say if you look at second quarter it's sort of 5 to 8 and then it sort it picks up as you go through the quarter.
And I think what gives us the confidence is there is still a fairly significant pipeline and there's a fairly significant demand from researchers to use that product.
It's very instrumental in a lot of cancer research.
And so in just the discussion with researchers and looking at the pipeline we think once we get through some of these funding uncertainties we think the demand will continue.
And again because we have pretty good insight into the customers and because we have pretty good share here we're fairly convinced that this is not a share issue and we're not losing share.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
So I think earlier in the call you had mentioned the prepared remarks.
It looks like a lot of those orders use felt you actually would recapture they weren't lost.
So is that -- what can you share with us about the commentary there maybe early action in April thus far is there any color towards that confidence? Yes.
I would say we are seeing an early -- some of the funding free up a little bit.
So I think that gives us a little bit more confidence.
But clearly this is an area we are going to watch very closely.
We were surprised in Q1 and so we feel like this will recover but it's something we're going to have to keep a close eye on.
But early indication is in April it seems to imply that there is some funding freeing up and we're starting to recover some of these that got pushed.
Research Division</strong> And then Andy how did this quarter's results impact your long-term margin targets? Well we've had an 18% target out there for operating margins in 2014 for some time and I think this obviously makes it more difficult.
I think we feel if we can deliver the second half forecast that we have now it's still achievable it's going to make it a lot more difficult to do.
But as Rob mentioned there's some things we're pulling in on a cost savings perspective.
And I think some of the initiatives that are actually complete and the cost are rolling off will start to generate some fairly significant savings in 2014.
So we're still sticking with that at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Andy one more.
After a shortfall of this magnitude I think we'll hope that there's a significant level of cushion in terms of the guidance that you're providing so that we don't see a shortfall again.
Maybe can you just discuss I think it was an earlier question was asked maybe a similar question but can you discuss Rob any kind of planning in terms of what you put into this guidance and kind of what level of conservatism if it there? Sure.
Well this is the first quarter we've missed guidance in over 10 years and we do not want to miss guidance again.
So we took a very detailed bottoms-up approach to the forecast and we also then put a very conservative overlay on that forecast.
So our confidence level in achieving this forecast is I would say high.
Next question comes from the line of Tycho Peterson JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Rob earlier you kind of laid out some timelines just to how the quarter tracked.
Can you just talk as to why you didn't pre-announce given you had the data a week ago? Tycho I would say our practice has been to announce on schedule and not to release early whether we are positive or negative.
Because we don't think it makes sense to go out with incomplete data.
Our view is it's better to provide a complete analysis and we wanted to make sure that we -- when we did go out that we had a complete understanding of what happened how it affects the business and what we're going to do about it.
And to sort of depart from that rigor would just lead to speculation and probably increase volatility.
So we wanted to make sure that we had it buttoned up and said hey we fully understand what happened.
This is what we think the implications are for the rest of the year and this is what we think we can do about it.
And my own view is to go out with incomplete data again just would lead to speculation and further confusion.
Research Division</strong> And then going back to a prior question on Medical Imaging I know you got a question about flat panel pricing but just the CapEx datapoints haven't been great around hospital spending.
Can you just talk us to what gives you conviction that that business still holds up for the next couple of quarters? Well I would say for our guidance we have generally guided Medical Imaging to relatively modest growth in 2013.
And part of that was because we saw a very strong growth in 2012.
So our expectations for Medical Imaging even in the beginning of the year were relatively modest I'll call it sort of flat to low single digits and we still think we can deliver that.
We did a little bit better than that in Q1 but we have fairly modest expectations for the Medical Imaging business throughout the remainder of the year.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then just lastly on the environmental business I don't know that the commentary from your competitors has been as negative as you guys particularly on Japan.
Can you just convince us that that's not a share issue it's more of a mix issue? Well again I sort of mentioned a little bit before.
A significant piece of our Japanese business is radiometric detection.
It was down actually close to 40% year-over-year and I don't know that any of our competitors do radiometric detection in Japan.
Your next question comes from the line of Derik De Bruin Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Tycho sort of got to some of the cleanup questions I wanted to ask but let me just ask some other ones that I need.
Can you just -- how big is sort of like the in vivo imaging business in terms of a dollar amount? Yes.
It's about 4% or 5% of the revenue call it $80 million business.
Research Division</strong> And I'm going to ask the competitive question another way on this.
I mean in Japan have SHIMADZU and Hitachi given that the yen has gotten weaker.
Have you seen -- was that part of the issue that people were buying more local suppliers for some of the environmental equipment there? I think it's -- at this point it's a little difficult for us to go back and sort of parse out whether our competitors are getting share or not.
I mean I think that's going to take us a little bit time to understand what's going on and I just sort of mentioned sort of understanding what are the other competitors.
We know because we have a big presence in radiometric detection and that was a big driver to the decline.
If you pull that out actually our analytical instrument business in Japan was down single digits.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
That's actually the data point I wanted.
So I guess and can you just sort of talk about geographies in Europe? I mean your more pronounced weakness in Germany that came in late in the quarter was it more pronounced? Yes.
Actually when we looked out and sort of mentioned the prepared remarks it was pretty pervasive.
I mean it wasn't in fact actually there was a slight higher downturn -- decrease in sort of the northern and central parts of Europe as compared to Southern Europe.
But it was across the board.
And again and what I'm talking the decline it was really Western Europe.
Actually Eastern Europe was fine Eastern Europe grew for us.
But when you look across Western Europe and again the area I'm spiking out as sort of the significant decline was in analytical instruments but it was whether it was north central south they were all down fairly significantly.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I guess just one final question on -- is there any update you can share on sort of the Verinata transaction I mean how has that gone so far? What are you seeing? Can you give us any sort of color on that? Yes.
I mean I think Andy mentioned is we're very pleased with -- we launched it February 1 and so we've got a little bit of history here.
So we're seeing a very nice uptick running in through our channel.
But as I think we mentioned the key here is you've got to get paid.
And so we're taking a very conservative approach to revenue forecasting.
But we still feel very good about it.
Research Division</strong> And along those lines are you running into -- are there one competitor you're running more into those markets when your people are going out are you running more into Sequenom or into Ariosa.
I'm just curious about who are your people sort of interacting with in the field.
No.
I would say not really.
And I think it's continued to validate our hypothesis as because we had great relationships with the physicians particularly in this area because of our NTD business that we're getting great traction and uptick.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Lawson Securities U.S.
Research Division</strong> Rob of the 3 issues that happened which ones are starting to turn around in the first few weeks of Q2 and how are you sure that you didn't lose share and what gives you the confidence it isn't going to bleed into 3Q? So I would say the area that we're seeing the most significant change was probably in the in vivo area where we are starting to see some people actually purchase instruments.
And as you can imagine Q4 was down very significantly.
So I would say that here.
Also in the case of Japan we will see some recovery there for no other reason than we have much easier comps.
I mean part of what was driving again -- and we knew we were going to be down because of the tsunami sort of blip we had in late '11 and early '12 so we will see some recovery in Japan.
I mean Europe it's a little early to tell because going back to my earlier comments a lot of the instrument purchases are more back-end loaded in the quarter.
So I would say we're not seeing a significant uptick in Europe but we will probably see some recovery in Japan for no other reason than comps and we are seeing some improvements in in vivo.
Research Division</strong> And what stops it bleeding into 3Q let's say Europe? Well I think Europe is -- and I think as we have put together the forecast we have been probably most cautious about Europe.
And so I think Japan we feel better about again part of that is just comparison purposes.
I think in vivo again because of our pipeline but I think we are cautious in Europe.
So while we think Europe gets a little bit better we are forecasting for analytical instruments in Europe still fairly modest demand.
Research Division</strong> And then I mean is there anything wrong with the reporting systems? And why didn't you see it earlier? No I don't think so.
As I said I mean this is something that we track on a weekly basis up until the last 2 weeks of the quarter and then we track it on a daily basis.
And we were tracking pretty well.
And when you look at both Q4 as a percentage of our revenue during the various weeks and Q1.
I think one of the things though as we go back and analyze this in more detail now we believe what may have been happening is there were some declines that were inherent in the weekly numbers that were being masked by revenue that was not necessarily beating plan but was just coming in early in the quarter.
So while we were tracking again on a percentage we were within 50 basis points of our percentage revenue on -- in week 9 10 11 and going into 12.
But we think that what was happening was that some of the revenue for the quarter was pulled earlier in some of these areas other than the 3 I mentioned.
Research Division</strong> And in any of those 3 areas you think you've lost share? As I said we don't believe so in in vivo and we've got pretty good visibility into that.
We don't believe we're losing share in radiometric detection because quite frankly there's not a lot of people that do that.
I think there is a question with regard to Europe and I just don't know that we have enough data to have a good appreciation for that.
Our next question comes from the line of Bryan Brokmeier Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> You cited OneSource as one sort of area of strength in the quarter and you've been seeing that growth over the last several quarters.
There are numerous players in the lab services market and I was just sort of wondering how are you sort of differentiating your business? A lot of them are also talking about growth in the lab services business and wondering why customers are choosing OneSource over some of the other offerings out there.
Yes.
I would say for me it's probably 2 or 3 differentiators.
One is we've been doing it for a long time we've got a great track record and we've got a lot of experience in doing this and we've done it with a lot of customers.
I would say the second thing is because of some of the acquisitions we made in the informatics area call it 18 24 months ago.
We are now able to bundle some very unique offerings where we can provide our customers not only opportunities to manage the service aspect of what's going on in their labs but we're giving them visibility through the use of our informatics capabilities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you talked about the weakness of your instruments in the environmental market and some of your competitors have talked about strengths of their food safety businesses specifically.
I was wondering if you could provide some color around your food safety business and what you're seeing there.
Yes.
Actually food safety was up for us probably sort of high single digits in the quarter.
So we continue to see good growth in the food area.
And again the majority of the weakness that we saw was on the industrial analytics.
So the environmental piece air and water was fine the food area was fine.
We mentioned the fact that the service was fine.
It was fairly contained within Europe and Japan and largely focused in the industrial end markets.
Your next question comes from the line of Zarak Khurshid Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> So how are things developing in China around the blood screening opportunity government tenders and so forth? Yes.
So I would say we continue to be very pleased with the integration first of all.
I think that's going well into our -- in our business there.
And we continue to feel good about our win rate there.
In the Q1 we continued to win tenders there and so we think we're getting more than our fair share of the business.
So we continue to be excited about that business and think come '14 '15 that's going to be to a big contributor to our growth.
Research Division</strong> Interesting.
And then just curious on the analytical instrument business as it pertains to China how significant is that and could your issues in Europe sort of bleed into China which has issues of its own and maybe isn't immune to some of these kind of credit issues? Yes.
Our analytical instrument business is call it 60% 65% of our China business.
And as we said we continued to see very strong growth in China in the first quarter.
And the growth was sort of broad-based across all our businesses.
All of our businesses in China grew mid-teens or better including the environmental business.
Research Division</strong> That's encouraging.
And then maybe I missed it but what was the overall currency impact and if you could comment on the CapEx spend for the remainder of the year that would be great.
On the FX side we did have about a $6 million FX headwind on the revenue side.
We did have a flow-through of that.
Because of the change in the yen we don't have a very large cost base or manufacturing presence in Japan so that flowed through so we had about a $0.02 hit on the FX side year-over-year.
I think the CapEx piece we're usually about 2% of revenues.
That's pretty much on track at least thus far in the first quarter and I think we may end up being a bit below that in the second half at this stage having reviewed the projects in the pipeline.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Willoughby Cleveland Research.
Two questions for you.
First on the earnings guidance.
I was just wondering with the new guidance what you're assuming as it relates to the impacts from currency as a headwind? And then also secondly on that given the reduction here are you still having incentive comp in the guidance or was that halted as well? Andy why don't you do number one I'll do number 2.
Right.
Within the full year plan year-over-year our currency impact is going to be about $10 million that's in the forecast.
Okay great.
Revenue perspective.
Yes.
So from an incentive comp standpoint obviously our incentive comp is down significantly.
But keep in mind some of the businesses continue to do well.
And in fact some of our businesses actually did a little bit better than their forecast so obviously the leaders in those businesses will continue to expect and will probably continue to pay incentive comp in those businesses.
Obviously the businesses that have not done as well the incentive comp will be down significantly.
Okay.
And then my second question was just -- or I guess it will be my third is on your second quarter guidance and saying that you expect organic growth to be I think you said relatively similar to what you saw here in the first quarter.
I was just wondering how to think through that with the in vivo business maybe getting bottoming or getting a little bit better and the Japan business maybe not being as bad as it was in the first quarter.
Steve what I had said was the majority of the business would be similar to the first quarter but we are seeing an uptick.
And I think our guidance calls for flat to low single digit in the second quarter so that is an uptick from the negative one in the first quarter.
Thank you.
Sir you have no questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Great.
Well thanks everyone appreciate your questions.
So let me just close by saying that despite the performance this quarter by a limited portion of our portfolio I see a lot to be optimistic about for PerkinElmer for the remainder of 2013 as well as the years to come.
I remain confident that we are extremely well positioned to drive our mission of improving human and environmental health through the development of cutting-edge solutions serving attractive markets.
Our ability to weather more difficult economic times is well proven and I believe we can continue to deliver strong shareholder returns and accelerate our growth through the quality of our offerings as well as our operating discipline and the dedication of our 7 500 terrific employees.
Thank you again for your continued interest in PerkinElmer and have a good evening.
Thank you for joining today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2013 PerkinElmer Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Clinton.
I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I'll turn the call over to Mr.
Tommy Thomas Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thanks Clinton.
Good afternoon and welcome to PerkinElmer's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
With me on the call are Rob Friel Chairman and Chief Executive of -- and Andy Wilson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
If you have not received a copy of our earnings press release you may get one from the Investors section of our website at www.perkinelmer.com.
Please note that this call is being webcast live and will be archived on our website until August 15 2013.
Before we begin we need to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor statements that we have outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings.
Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views only as of today.
We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements in the future even if our estimates change.
So you should not rely on any of today's forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any other date after today.
During this call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available as an attachment to our earnings press release.
To the extent we use non-GAAP financial measures during this call that are not reconciled to the GAAP in the attachment we will provide reconciliations promptly.
I'm now pleased to introduce the Chairman and Chief Executive of PerkinElmer Rob Friel.
Rob? Thanks Tommy.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
I'm pleased to report PerkinElmer delivered solid performance in the second quarter.
Adjusted and organic revenues each increased 3% with Human Health up 2% and Environmental Health up 3%.
As a result of the strong top line performance adjusted earnings per share was $0.51 $0.03 above the midpoint of our guidance.
Andy will discuss our second quarter results in more detail.
But before he does I would like to highlight a few specific areas.
First of all the 3 parts of our business that resulted in lower revenue last quarter all showed significant improvement.
In fact the improvements in these 3 businesses accounted for approximately 3/4 of the 400 basis points sequential improvement in this quarter's organic growth rate.
Other areas of strong growth included our newborn and infectious disease screening businesses which benefited from further penetration into emerging markets.
Our informatics business continued to grow double digits including significant momentum with Spotfire.
And OneSource experienced high-single-digit growth as our differentiated capabilities continue to enable share expansion.
Also of note our radiochemical business was flat in the second quarter reversing a long period of consecutive revenue declines.
Partially offsetting this growth was a mid-single-digit decline in Medical Imaging in the quarter.
While we continue to believe revenue in this business will be flat in 2013 relative to the very strong growth we experienced last year Medical Imaging will experience significant volatility quarter-to-quarter during this year due to anticipated customer ordering patterns.
During the second quarter we completed several major productivity initiatives and announced additional actions to further improve our cost structure and enable our growth investments.
Specifically we completed product line transfers to China and Singapore to rationalize our global footprint and we made headway in consolidating Western European back-office capabilities in Kraków Poland.
We also completed the consolidation of 3 North American facilities and efforts are underway to consolidate 2 additional legacy Caliper sites further simplifying our operational footprint and improving our R&amp;D efficiency.
In addition to focusing on our cost structure we achieved a number of significant commercial wins and continued to invest in high-growth areas where we can deliver competitive differentiation and disruptive innovation.
For example we announced the launch of our breakthrough AxION iQT which combines identification and quantification capabilities in a single mass spec instrument.
We successfully executed the first customer deployments of the new version of our flagship E-Notebook platform and launched our first ChemDraw scientific applications for iPads.
On the diagnostic side we won additional newborn screening programs in Saudi Arabia and South Africa and continued to expand our newborn and prenatal testing menus adding additional assays.
In China we launched 2 new SFDA-approved diagnostic analyzers for infectious disease testing 1 targeted at fully automated larger throughput hospital labs and 1 focused on smaller clinical labs.
In the environmental area we introduced a new photodiode array with an innovative flow cell for liquid chromatography which will expand our capabilities in environmental and research labs.
Turning to our outlook we feel good about our ability to deliver organic growth and improved profitability in the back half of the year as we build momentum heading into 2014.
The macro environment is tracking as we expected continuing to be weak with recovery in some pockets.
Europe still faces headwinds with economic and political pressures and the impact from sequestration in U.S.
continues to dampen capital spending.
In Japan we expect to see improved growth in the region as funds from the supplemental budget are released.
And in China we expect the government to continue to moderate growth slightly disproportionately impacting the larger cities in the East with sustained robust growth in the West.
This month we are moving into a larger facility in Beijing.
And later this year opening an office in Ürümqi to improve our access to the growing areas in the far west of China.
Despite indications that overall growth may be slowing in China their increasing need for capabilities to improve both human health and environmental health presents us with excellent opportunities potentially offsetting any moderation.
While we remain confident in our long-term strategy to deliver organic revenue growth in the mid-single digits in light of the global economic climate we think it's prudent to assume low-single-digit organic growth rates for the remainder of the year.
While Andy will discuss our guidance in more detail we are forecasting a return to adjusted margin expansion and solid adjusted EPS growth in the back half of the year.
More importantly we believe that we can achieve this forecast while continuing to invest appropriately in our most exciting opportunities to drive profitable growth.
I would now like to turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon everyone.
Consistent with prior quarters I'll provide some additional color on our end markets a financial summary of our second quarter results and details around our revised 2013 guidance.
Then we'll open up the call for your questions.
As Rob mentioned earlier we were encouraged by our performance in the second quarter as both adjusted revenue and organic revenue increased by 3%.
Adjusted revenue for the quarter was $547 million as compared to $532 million in the second quarter of 2012.
We experienced organic revenue growth across both segments of our business with Environmental Health and Human Health growing 3% and 2% respectively versus the same period last year.
Looking at our geographical results.
Organic revenue increased low-double digits in Asia increased low-single digits in Europe and declined low-single digits in the Americas.
In China organic revenues increased high teens with the BRIC countries as a whole increasing mid-teens.
As a reminder emerging market comparisons will continue to be difficult through the third quarter of 2013 which was the high watermark of last year.
Looking at organic revenue by product category.
Recurring revenue which includes reagents consumables and service grew mid-single digits in the quarter primarily the result of continuing strength in our OneSource Laboratory Services and our informatics offerings.
Instruments and components reported flat organic revenue growth in the quarter but were up sequentially as compared to the first quarter of this year.
As Rob indicated earlier each of these -- each of the 3 areas negatively impacting our first quarter performance experienced significant sequential improvement.
First organic revenues in our In Vivo business grew organically by more than 20% despite continuing sequestration pressures in the U S.
While a portion of the second quarter growth is attributable to the catch-up of first quarter delays order demand remained strong.
Second organic revenue for our environmental instrument business in Western Europe was essentially flat in the quarter as compared to our mid-teens decline in the first quarter.
We were encouraged by the broad sequential strength experienced across the portfolio.
And finally our Japanese business also improved sequentially as organic revenue declined low-single digits as compared to our mid-teens decline in the first quarter of this year.
We expect the ongoing deployment of government stimulus which began in the second quarter will continue to help enable our ability to deliver positive organic growth in Japan for the back half of the year.
From an end market perspective our Human Health segment represented approximately 55% of reported revenue in the quarter.
We serve 2 end markets in Human Health: diagnostics which represented 27% of reported revenue; and research which represented 28% of reported revenue.
Organic revenue from our Diagnostics business increased low-single digits during the second quarter primarily due to tougher comparisons in our Medical Imaging business which declined mid-single digits.
We continued to see good results from both our screening business and our infectious disease and blood screening diagnostic offerings targeting emerging markets.
Our screening business grew mid-single digit in the quarter and continues to benefit from the stabilization of U.S.
birthrates and the expansion of our prenatal and newborn screening solutions in key regions outside the U.S.
We are also pleased with our ongoing newborn sales uptick in Asia which saw organic growth in the high teens in the second quarter of 2013.
As mentioned earlier our Medical Imaging business experienced a mid-single-digit decline in organic revenue during the second quarter a result of very difficult double-digit comparisons in the prior year.
You may recall this business will be facing strong comparisons in every quarter of 2013.
Our Research business delivered low-single-digit organic revenue growth in the second quarter versus the comparable period in 2012.
As I mentioned earlier we saw a strong recovery in our In Vivo imaging business as well a sequential improvement in our radiometric detection business.
European and Asian research markets both experienced solid organic revenue growth.
Moving to Environmental Health which represented 45% of reported revenue in the second quarter.
We serve 3 end markets: laboratory services which represented 19% of reported revenue; environmental and safety which represented 17% of reported revenue; and industrial which represented 9% of reported revenue.
During the quarter we experienced high-single-digit organic growth in the Laboratory Services business mid-single-digit organic growth in our industrial business and low-single-digit organic revenue declines in our environmental and safety business.
While we are pleased with the second quarter performance in our industrial business we expect industrial end market demand to remain soft for the second half of the year.
We experienced strong acceptance of our laboratory service offering in the quarter as we help our lab customers better manage their critical laboratory assets and related data needs.
Our OneSource offering is a key differentiator for us as evidenced by the win of a new major pharmaceutical company while also expanding our presence in other key pharma and health care customers during the current quarter.
Turning to our margin performance in the period.
Adjusted operating margins in the second quarter were 15.6% as compared to 16.9% in the comparable period a year ago.
As we mentioned earlier in the year the first half of 2013 was going to be a period of investment and this quarter's results were in line with our expectations.
As we move into the second half of this year we expect adjusted operating margins to show improvement versus the comparable period in 2012.
By segment adjusted operating margins in our Human Health segment were 21% and operating margins in our Environmental Health segment were 13% representing a decline of approximately 110 basis points and 160 basis points respectively as compared to the second quarter of 2012.
These declines were primarily the result of increased R&amp;D spending additional investments in our informatics business pricing pressures primarily in the Environmental Health segment as well as difficult year-over-year comparisons due to 2012 licensing revenue that did not reoccur in the second quarter of 2013.
GAAP operating income from continuing operations was $39.7 million in the second quarter of 2013 versus $49.8 million in the same period a year ago.
GAAP earnings per share for continuing operations in the second quarter of 2013 were $0.24 compared to $0.29 in the second quarter of last year.
Adjusted earnings per share was $0.51 in the second quarter of 2013 $0.03 above the midpoint of our guidance range.
On a non-GAAP basis our adjusted tax rate was approximately 21%.
Turning to the balance sheet we finished the second quarter with approximately $1 billion of debt and approximately $112 million of cash.
We exited the quarter with a debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.6x and a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.3x.
Looking at our cash flow performance year-to-date adjusted operating cash flow from continuing operations was $99 million as compared to $115 million in 2012.
Higher working capital requirements primarily accounts receivable negatively impacted our performance in the second quarter as extended terms and the timing of revenue contributed.
I also want to note that as planned the pension contributions made in the first quarter of 2013 will be funded by the recently announced sale-leaseback of one of our facilities in the Boston area.
And therefore the pension funding will be neutral to our full-year cash balances.
To summarize our performance in the second quarter of 2013 came in ahead of expectations and we remain focused on achieving our longer-term organic growth and adjusted operating margin expansion targets.
I'd now like to discuss our 2013 guidance in a bit more detail and highlight a few items impacting our second half outlook.
Specifically in Q4 we will face currency headwinds of approximately $5 million due to the movement of the yen which will negatively impact our reported revenue.
In addition as I mentioned earlier there is a fourth quarter revenue weighting in our Medical Imaging business due to the calendarization of end customer demand.
Medical Imaging reported revenues are expected to be down high teens in the third quarter but grow low-double digits in the fourth quarter.
This impact represents approximately $6 million shifting between quarters and should offset the fourth quarter currency headwind I just mentioned.
As a result we expect adjusted revenues for the third quarter 2013 to be in the range of $515 million to $525 million with organic revenue growth to be in the range of flat to 2%.
Adjusted earnings per share are expected to be in the range of $0.46 to $0.48.
Regarding adjusted operating margins despite approximately 40 basis points of FX headwinds in the third and fourth quarter we expect second half adjusted operating margins to improve approximately 50 to 75 basis points as compared to the second half of last year but more heavily weighted towards the fourth quarter primarily due to the aforementioned timing of second half Medical Imaging revenues.
Our adjusted tax rate is expected to be 22% for the second half of 2013 and our weighted average diluted share count for the year is assumed to be approximately 113 million shares.
Finally we expect interest and other expense to be approximately $12.5 million in both the third and fourth quarters.
So based on these assumptions we expect our full year organic growth to be low-single digits and we are narrowing our full year earnings per share guidance raising the bottom end of our guidance range for adjusted earnings per share for 2013 from a range of $2 to $2.10 to a new range of $2.03 to $2.10.
This concludes my prepared remarks.
Operator we'd like to open up the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Isaac Ro of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just want to talk a little bit about margins.
I'm wondering if you could put some more color behind in the margins this quarter specifically with environmental what was going on there.
Was there something in the way of FX versus sort of other sort of transient factors? And maybe was there something maybe more structural? Just kind of -- if you can kind of separate those 2 that will be helpful.
Well just let me start off with sort of the margins overall and then Andy can drill into the specific environmental.
But the way I would think about our margins is it was probably 3 things that drove the reduction year-over-year.
One is we talked about investments and those are both productivity and related to growth and that's probably about 1/3 of it.
I think we did see -- continued to see some pricing and mix pressures and obviously that was planned.
Probably about 1/3 of that was probably mostly related to the mix and those types of things.
And then...
Yes and then the third thing we had investments we had the mix and -- yes...
License -- yes the year-over-year.
There was some licensing year-over-year.
So about a third on the licensing about 1/3 on pricing mix and about 1/3 on investments.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
That's helpful.
And then just if you could remind us in back half of the year what's embedded in your guidance in terms of the geographic outlook in the U.S.
Europe and sort of Rest of World? Just kind of -- given the volatility in the macro picture what you guys are assuming would be helpful.
So I think we're assuming pretty similar geographic growth than what we've experienced in the first half of the year.
I would say the only difference is maybe a little moderation in China.
And as I mentioned in the prepared remarks we think there's going to be a little moderation probably more impact on the eastern side as compared to the western.
So we're anticipating a little bit of moderation there.
I would say Europe continues to be sort of flat in our view and modest growth in the U.
S.
So again in the back half we're assuming similar geographic growth patterns.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Brennan of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on the 3 businesses that were the culprits of the first quarter shortfall.
I know you gave some color about not only the growth this quarter but the expectation.
Maybe could you give a little more color about how we should think about those businesses progressing kind of in the back of the year implicit in your guidance? Yes.
So first of all in In Vivo as we mentioned we saw good recovery in the second quarter.
We think a lot of that was just a make up for the first quarter although I think the team did a terrific job because we continued to see some pressure in the U.S.
from sequestration.
So the majority of the growth occurred actually in Europe and Asia.
But as Andy said we feel good about the pipeline there.
I would say our expectations for In Vivo is probably mid-single-digit growth for the rest of the -- or the back half of the year.
I think in the case of Japan we saw that recover from mid-teens to low single.
We think with some of the release of the supplemental budget in Japan we could probably return that to low- to mid-single growth in the back half.
And we're continuing to be fairly conservative in Europe.
Although we did see positive growth in Europe in the second quarter we do have more difficult comparisons going into the third and so I think we're assuming Europe will be flat to down slightly.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Andy terms of the guidance Q3 Q4 just the way you chase that.
I mean is it fair to assume -- I know your third quarter comp from last year certainly a lot more difficult.
I know you discussed some other factors in terms of the shift between Q3 and Q4.
Maybe can you just go through that a little more again like is it really just a tougher comp for the kind of the 0% to 2% in Q3 or just maybe go through the factors again how we should think about the back half of the year progression? Well I think Q3 is a more difficult comp than Q4.
We also talked about the Med Imaging shift on the top line.
So I think if you're looking at flat- to low-single digit you're going to see a little bit of sequential improvement in the fourth quarter.
And I think if you look at from a margin expansion the rollout of our initiatives and some of the restructuring that we have just completed you will see margin expansion in both periods but more weighted towards the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And maybe one more quick one.
Rob is your expectation in '14 with some of the new product initiatives that you have ongoing I know there's no '14 guidance but you previously were talking about an accelerating growth rate in '14.
I mean any high-level color about how we should be thinking about the impact of these new products? Well I think we continue to feel good about our ability to improve growth going into '14.
And one of the things we wanted to do in Q2 when we took the restructuring actions was not only to respond to what we saw was more difficult sort of macroeconomic conditions but more importantly we wanted to create the flexibility to continue to invest in growth.
So I think I feel good about the fact that we -- I think we've given ourselves the ability to continue to fund the growth initiatives.
So again a lot of it will be dependent on macroeconomic conditions.
But I do feel good about our ability to get the new products out into the marketplace and hopefully to achieve increasing organic revenue growth as we get into '14.
The next question comes from the line of Ross Muken of ISI.
Research Division</strong> This is Vijay in for Ross.
First one maybe on Japan.
I know that you mentioned in the south [ph] the stimulus there could benefit in the back half.
And how should we think of -- in terms of growth or dollar-wise what the contribution could be? So for the second quarter as I mentioned we were down low-single.
I think as we think about the back half we could see Japan growing sort of low- to mid-single.
So I would say going from down sort of 3% to probably up in the 4% to 5% in the back half.
As you probably know Japan is about 5% of our revenue.
So it gives you a sense of what impact that might have on the back half.
Research Division</strong> Rob and just on U.S.
could you mention segment-wise sort of pockets of strength and weakness that you're seeing? So I would say if we look at the U.S.
first of all academic continues to be a headwind.
And so I think while the uncertainty around sequestration is not what it was in the first quarter I still -- we continue to see funds moving relatively slowly from a capital acquisition perspective.
So I would say academic continues to be relatively slow.
We mentioned the fact that service was strong so we continue to see good growth in the service end markets.
Diagnostic particularly in our newborn screening continues to grow in the U.S.
And we're continuing to see positive birth trends.
We continue to see birth trending up in the United States close to 3%.
I would say in the environmental area though we were down there in the U.S.
And I think that's more of a sort of an economic environment where I still think there's some headwinds from a macroeconomic perspective.
So Environmental down a little bit service up Diagnostics continuing to see good growth.
And I would say within the LST area academic headwinds but we are seeing some improvement in our pharma spending.
Pharma for us was up low- to mid-single digits.
The next question comes from the line of Dan Leonard of Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I was hoping you can give us some understanding on some of the bottoms-up efforts to improve the gross margin as the year marches along here.
Yes well we've talked a lot about some of the initiatives that we were putting in place.
And we did complete one of those and we're almost complete with the second significant leg of that.
The first being moving some manufacturing to Singapore and China that is complete.
There is primarily a supply chain savings that we have baked into the second half which I think will help grow our gross margin.
The other piece is the consolidation of facilities in North America and we're closing 3 facilities.
We've announced 2 other small facilities that we're also going to incorporate into Hopkinton and that will be completed here shortly.
And so we will see some second half savings there.
So I think if you look at our 50 to 75 basis points the majority of those savings are going to be coming in gross margin.
We're also making progress around the back-office consolidation but that really won't be completed until the end of this year.
We are underway and so we'll start to see those savings really hit the OpEx in 2014.
So it's -- as you look at the 50 to 75 we forecasted for the second half most of that is going to be around the gross margin side and then the second -- as we move into next year it will be more equally split between gross and operating margin.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then my follow-up question it seems from talking to your partner on the cell-free fetal DNA side that you're making some great progress there.
I'm wondering if you can give us an update on how we should think about that impacting the P&amp;L and modeling changeover between cash accounting into accrual accounting and also the trajectory there.
Sure.
So I think as we've been fairly consistent this year we really don't expect it to have a material impact in 2013 from a revenue or profitability perspective.
But at the same time as you alluded to we feel very good about the rapid and successful contracting with the managed-care providers for the verified test.
And we think the willingness of these providers to contract the test is really a terrific testament for the quality and importance of the testing.
Today we actually signed another we signed CIGNA.
And we're now up over $130 million contracted lives.
Clearly the most covered of any provider in NIPT.
So we continue to be excited about the uptake the receptivity from the doctors and the progress we're making with managed-care providers.
But we also think it's going to be more of a 2014 from the standpoint of a material impact on our financial results.
The next question comes from Doug Schenkel of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Based on today's updates it seems fair to assert that last quarter you suffered through a bit of a perfect storm at the end of the quarter.
It's good to see a nice rebound this quarter.
That being said comps get a bit tougher in the second half and growth in the first half was at low-single-digit levels and -- that's clearly embedded in your full year guidance.
But really where I'm going with this is as we look ahead does revenue growth really need to accelerate in 2014 for you to get to that 18% operating margin target? Or are the initiatives that you're pulling forward now enough to get you there even if growth continues at low-single digit levels? Well I would say we can continue to get margin expansion but I think to get to the level of 18% by 2014 we would need to see accelerated revenue growth.
And I think we've said for some time that mid-single-digit organic revenue growth is probably what we would need now.
We have taken some additional actions in the second quarter.
And as I said before that was largely driven by the fact that it allows us to continue to invest into growth but clearly it will -- should provide some incremental margin expansion in '14.
But I think to get to the level of 18% we would need to see an acceleration of organic revenue growth beyond what we're experiencing in '13.
LLC Research Division</strong> But with that I guess it's probably worth keeping in mind you do have a more -- the set-up from this year to next year will be a pretty favorable one and so if you kind of -- so if you maintain the current pace that alone probably would get you to mid-single-digit levels I would think.
Maybe a follow-up on the Verinata question from a second ago.
Your main competitor in NIPT talked about some reimbursement challenges and pricing challenges in the quarter.
It doesn't sound like you guys are experiencing any of that.
Is that the case? Yes I think that's fair.
I mean I think when you think about those exchanges really being talked about in the first of the year I think to a large extent we factored that in when we thought about our forecasting.
And while I don't want to get into the specifics we feel very good about the pricing we're getting.
And clearly the average rate we're seeing is higher than what we had originally anticipated in our financial models.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last question maybe a little too early and maybe a little too high level at this.
But it was reported in the mainstream press recently that China was going to announce a $275 billion plan to reduce pollution over the next 5 years.
Is that an opportunity for you in China in environmental testing? Is this something that you're actively acting on and any way to quantify the opportunity for you at this time? Yes first of all absolutely.
I mean I think that provides a great opportunity.
And again I talked in my comments about we're well aligned with what China's trying to do from both a human health and environmental health perspective.
So whether it's -- there was also a lot of discussion about soil contamination in addition to the air and some of the other environmental concerns that they have.
So clearly we -- we've -- we are very active in the environment over there in China.
We will continue to be -- and in fact we've targeted specifically air monitoring in China as a significant opportunity for us probably beginning in '14 but also expanding out over the next couple of years.
The next question comes from the line of Amit Bhalla of Citi.
Research Division</strong> A question on the changing cost structure of the business.
I appreciate that you laid the moving pieces of consolidation et cetera that are taking place.
But I was hoping you could put some numbers around the reduction in total company headcount either in absolute terms or in percentage of total employees at the business? It's a reduction over these initiatives of about 300 people.
And if you really look at the dollars it's about -- with the restructuring we just initiated it's about $40 million in total.
Now again we've -- we're spending back on about $10 million of that this year on some initiatives but I think as we look at 2013 we probably have about $10 million worth of upside in the back half.
It's offset a little bit by some price and mix in FX.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my second question is on Medical Imaging.
So I appreciate there's a lot of customer volatility in that business but I was hoping you could go into a little bit better of a geographic breakdown of how that business has performed U.S.
Europe and then the Asia Pac region.
So if you look specifically in QT -- in Q2 what we saw was America was down quite significantly sort of greater than 15% Asia was relatively flat and Europe was actually up mid-single digits.
Now the one thing I would caution you here though is when we talk about our revenue geographically in Medical Imaging again this is probably the only business in PerkinElmer where we're not selling necessarily to end customers because we're providing components here.
So in a lot of cases the geographic information really talks to the system the ultimate system provider.
So it can be a little misleading from a geographic perspective.
But anyway if you look at our revenue that's how it would break out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a follow-up there in the Asian markets for Medical Imaging did you feel like inventory in the channel was stable? Did you see any drawdowns of inventory taking place there? I think going into 2013 there clearly was some inventory in the channel and we're seeing that drawn down.
And that's why I think as Andy talked about we're expecting some fairly significant growth in Q4.
And then I think as we look out into '14 we think Medical Imaging will return to a more high-single-digit growth rate which we think is probably more representative of the opportunity in those end markets.
The next question comes from the line of Jon Groberg of Macquarie.
Rob in Asia can you maybe just talk a little bit more about some of the geographies? If I'm remembering right from the fourth quarter along with Japan Korea and other parts of Southeast Asia were weaker.
And I think you said China was just kind of okay it wasn't great.
It looks like China rebounded to the high teens you said.
But from your comments it sounds like you're expecting that to slow.
And I don't know if that's things you're seeing this quarter or if that's just kind of looking at the first half overall.
So maybe just any color you can give around Asia generally.
So first of all I would say in China I think we've gone probably 10-plus quarters in a row with 20-plus organic growth.
And our view is that's probably not sustainable forever so we expect a little moderation of that but still at a very robust rate.
So as I mentioned we were very high teens this quarter.
I think as I look out to the back half of the year it's probably going to be very similar to that.
So I would say in the 15% to 20% range we also have a very significant comp issue in China specifically in Q3.
But generally speaking I think there's going to be some moderation there but still very robust growth.
I mentioned Japan I think Japan is going to be sort of mid-single digits as we go back -- go into the second half of the year.
And then I -- if I think about the rest of Asia I think it's going to be in that range.
I think it's going to be sort of low- to mid-single digits there.
I think that's mostly for us being impacted by the industrial end markets.
And just to be clear again China you're just looking at the comps.
It's nothing that you're seeing there itself that that would suggest it would be a little bit slower.
No I think it's mostly the comps.
Okay and then on the Environmental side or the -- I guess on the Lab Services side any -- it seems to be a market that others are trying to get into.
You've been pretty successful there kind of updated views about the opportunities that you're seeing in that segment going forward? Yes I think as we said in the prepared remarks we continue to see strong growth in the Service business.
And again that was against some -- in the second quarter against some difficult comps.
So we're pleased with our progress there.
It's an area where I think we continue to invest in.
We've got a great organization.
We've talked about the fact that adding the informatics capabilities -- because I think for us it's all about providing your customers with differentiated capabilities.
And so I think our success there is a recognition by our customers or in the marketplace that we continue to provide a differentiated offering here that our customers feel valuable.
If I can what percent of Lab is just basic asset management and some basic services tied to the lab versus some of these newer offerings that you have in informatics I don't know if you want to call them higher value-add type of offerings? Well so -- I don't know if we can get into that level of detail.
But I would say that at this point the informatics offerings are still a relatively small piece.
Our expectation is that will be a larger piece but again it's pretty early days.
So I would say that's a relatively small piece of our service revenue right now.
But I think it -- the capability is a significant enabler.
And I think our customers are recognizing that the potential is fairly significant going forward.
The next question comes from the line of Dan Arias of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just to go back to In Vivo with the improvement that you saw in Europe and Asia did you find that it was a handful of large orders coming through that made the biggest difference? Or really was it just that the overall funding environment eased and what you saw was broad-based spending improvement? Well if you're looking outside the U.S.
I think it was a couple of things.
First of all clearly some of the stuff that moved out of the first quarter we were able to close in the second quarter.
So I think that helped a little bit.
I think when you look in the U.S.
there are still funding issues.
And I think sequestration is having an impact.
And then I would say generally like I said I think the organization has done a terrific job in trying to get a lot of those orders closed in the quarter and not running into the end-of-quarter issues that we had in Q1.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe on the Diagnostic side.
As the menu broadens for the noninvasive prenatal stuff over time to what extent if any might Verinata start to compete with the Signature business -- Signature Genomics business? Is that something you think about? I don't think so.
I think we continue to think of Signature as more of a confirmatory test and the NIPT has continued to be a screen.
I do think over time that NGS or next-gen sequencing does start to infringe upon the arrays.
But I think at this point again they are separate enough.
And in fact the 3 pieces of our business I think are very complementary because I think of the biochemical screen as sort of low-cost and then you go into the NIPT and then you go into the arrays as a confirmatory test.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just maybe to sneak in one more as we sort of triangulate these outlook comments Rob or Andy at this point do you have a growth outlook for instruments overall for the year -- or for the back half? For analytical instruments? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I think it's probably low-single digits.
The next question comes from Derik De Bruin of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> It's Rafael in for Derik.
Rob just regarding the business in China can you maybe compare the customer mix that you have in that country versus developed geographies? Well I would say when you look at China clearly there's a higher percentage of the environment the environmental business.
So if you look at overall PerkinElmer we're 45% Environmental 55% Human Health.
If you look at our Asian businesses it's probably 60% to 65% Environmental.
So I would say that's the first distinction.
I would say the other thing is the Medical Imaging business is a relatively small piece although growing in the China business.
And so the other mix is within the Diagnostic business much higher percentage of hospitals from infectious disease than we have outside.
So it is a little bit of a different mix relative to Environmental and Human and then even within Human Health a little bit of different mix from a customer perspective.
Research Division</strong> And I guess if I'm -- based on the comments you made earlier basically in the back half you're not necessarily expecting any one of these customer segments who radically changed from the other meaning not -- one of these customers isn't slowing down dramatically in the back half? We don't.
And I think going back to the prior comments I mean first of all on the Human Health side we think there's going to be continued demand for access to health care.
And so we expect whether it's on the newborn prenatal or infectious disease they're going to continue to grow probably north of 20%.
And then of course we talked a little earlier about the demands on the environmental issues.
So whether it's air soil water et cetera.
So we think we're going to continue to see strong growth for our products in China.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the mass spec that was introduced at ASMS can you comment on maybe on the sort of bookings or orders that have come in so far? Well we at this point are still talking to employees but we haven't started shipping it.
We'll probably start shipping that towards the end of the third quarter.
But the response to this and the receptivity to the product has been terrific.
And so while we're starting to take some orders we don't expect it to have a material impact in Q3 probably start to see some revenue in the fourth quarter.
But I think the significant impact from an orders and revenue perspective again will be in 2014.
Our next question comes from the line of Tycho Peterson of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I think maybe Rob just following up on that last question.
I mean with the new mass spec systems I mean you're going after I guess like $1 billion GC triple quad market.
Maybe just talk about your go-to-market strategy.
I mean you go to Agilent Shimadzu Thermo some fairly entrenched competitors so can you maybe just touch on your strategy there? And presumably this will have some pretty interesting appetite in China so maybe talk about how you see demand for that product over there as well.
Yes I think our approach on the mass spec side is to try and find those market niches where the innovation within this mass spec can really provide our customers with some great performance enhancements.
So as you know the AxION combines the identification and quantification capabilities of a triple quad and a TAF [ph].
And so we think that's fairly unique in a couple of specific applications.
And so our go-to-market is not to sort of try and blanket the mass spec market but to really focus on those applications and those end markets where the AxION iQT can be really differentiated.
And so -- but as you mentioned we think it's a fairly sizable market but ones where the combination of the identification and the quantification in one instrument can provide real benefits both from a result perspective and a lower cost.
So it's going to be a much more targeted go-to-market against specific applications.
Research Division</strong> And do you see an opportunity to add LC upfront? I mean it seemed like there were some potential there at ASMS when you first talked about it.
How do you think about that? Yes I think as we talked about ASMS we think about this as a generation of products.
And the first offering had a GC in front of it.
I think clearly the opportunity to put an LC is something that we would look to do probably next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then 2 other quick -- just points of clarification for academic in the back half of the year I mean you mentioned Japan continues to be okay obviously sequestration here in the U.S.
Are you assuming academic in aggregate is down in the back half of the year? Yes I would say we would think globally flat.
And the way I would think about that is outside the U.S.
low-single-digits up and in the U.S.
we think it's going to continue to be a little bit of a headwind down a couple of points.
Our U.S.
business is probably a little bigger.
So when you sort of average that together it's probably -- our assumption is probably flattish.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one radiochemicals flat in the quarter.
I mean that's been a tough business for a long time.
I mean anything to call out there? We were quite pleased by that because as you know it has been a drag on our revenue for a long period of time.
It's a little early to call it trend but we are getting a sense here that some of the pharmaceutical companies are returning back to screening particularly with kinase and GPCRs and -- are looking to do it with the radiochemicals.
We'd like to see a couple of quarters of this before we're ready again to call this a trend.
But we are encouraged by the fact that the business was flat in the second quarter.
The next question comes from Brandon Couillard of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Andy on the operating cash flow in the period can you describe sort of what happened on the DSO front and whether that should sort of reverse in the second half? I know you mentioned extended payment terms if you could elaborate there and then perhaps give us an outlook for the full year? Sure.
I mean I think from a payment term perspective we have seen some of our larger customers continue to put pressure on payment terms.
That's a little harder one to turn around in the near term.
But I would say the other piece which was also a large portion was around linearity.
I think that's a timing issue.
And I think that we should see some of those receivable built up at the end of the second quarter.
Collected in the third quarter we continue to try to work on the linearity side of the business as well.
But I think overall in the second quarter that really was the impact.
I think if you look at it from a year-to-date basis really we just had a couple of items some accrueds which were -- it's really more of a timing issue.
It includes taxes and other things and then some working capital.
I mean had some CapEx which is really around the consolidation of the business as we've talked about earlier.
So I think overall our working capital was kind of a neutral to the half but as you point out we do have some work to do on the collection side.
I think second half we're anticipating our free cash flow to net income to be a little below 1x really more like 90% because we have some additional restructuring.
But I think we're starting to make some headway there around working capital.
Research Division</strong> And then Andy just in terms of the -- given where the capital structure is at this point do you feel like you're in a position to do perhaps more M&amp;A activity? How would you characterize the pipeline? And should we expect any incremental share repurchases in the second half? Well I think we certainly have continued to remain active on the diligence side.
And I think there's a number of bolt-on acquisitions that we're in the process of reviewing.
So I think M&amp;A more of a tuck-in variety is still something that we are very interested in.
I think it really depends on how those actions progress through the second half.
If we see our ability to bring in more of those coveted acquisitions we'll probably do that.
If not we'll probably look at share buybacks.
The next question comes from the line of Zarak Khurshid of Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I have kind of a multi-part question for the diagnostic analyzer launches in China.
Can you just talk about the competitive environment there? How are you differentiated? Can you give us a sense of how big that business could be down the road and is there may be a U.S.
opportunity for that product? In the Chinese diagnostic market generally speaking the way we think about our competitive advantage is to really go after the Tier 2 hospitals.
And our approach there is -- and again these products are both designed and produced in China so we have a very attractive cost structure.
But of course we have entered a national quality and brand that we can attach that at.
So generally we've been very successful in going after -- and as you know Tier 2 is the largest piece of the market there.
So you've got sort of international branded and produced products going after Tier 3 have the tendency to be higher cost and then you've got the local producers that are really at the Tier 1.
And so we're really focused in that Tier 2 area.
And again providing the combination of lower cost with a higher quality and brand and service associated with an international company is basically how we take -- how we win there.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And then just if you could clarify an answer to a prior question on Verinata.
In the second quarter did you experience a more significant payment delay associated with the new codes versus what you saw in the first quarter? Well first of all it's a relatively small population for us but the answer is no.
The next question comes from Steve Willoughby of Cleveland Research.
First just a follow-up on the new products that you introduced in China.
I was just wondering if you could maybe provide a little bit more color on those and are those something that can even more accelerate your growth for that business in China? Well I mean basically what they are is they're analyzers for infectious disease and one of them is really targeted at the fully automated larger-throughput hospital labs.
And we've actually had that out in the second quarter and we're seeing very good receptivity.
We actually sold I think high-single-digit instruments in the second quarter.
So good receptivity on that.
And then the other one was really targeted more at the -- as I mentioned the smaller clinical labs.
And again these are products that are produced in China designed in China have a very competitive cost structure and have generally seen pretty good receptivity.
Could it accelerate our growth? I think I would say I would think about it more as it continues to support our ability to grow 20%-plus in that marketplace.
Okay.
And then just following up on a comment you made earlier regarding either pricing or mixed issues having an impact on gross margins was just wondering if you could talk about maybe kind of where or what products you're seeing those on? Yes the comment really is focused more on our Environmental business and really around and the instrumentations -- in the instrumentation side of the equation.
I think if you really look at the quarter we did see some significant instrument sales in Asia.
A lot of those were government tenders and those tended to be a little bit lower in price.
And then there was the mix with service which also had an impact there because service is a -- typically lower gross margins.
So as we talked about service grew very nicely in the quarter and instruments was sort of flattish.
And while service has very good operating margins on the gross margin side that usually causes a little bit of a negative mix.
Got you.
And then just my final question just because I don't think it's been asked and I just wanted to clarify.
If you could just talk about the pacing in the quarter and just how did the quarter kind of wrap up compared to your expectations? So as Andy alluded to on the receivables side obviously the linearity for us and I think a lot of our peers is challenging in the capital equipment side.
I would say the linearity returned to similar trends that we've seen prior to Q1.
But I would say in that regard though I think the clarity around sequestration is not what it was in the first quarter.
I think increased clarity around Japan and the releasing of the supplemental budget I think is sort of helpful.
So I think what we've seen is more clarity around the customers' ability to spend money.
But having said that clearly we continue to have a large portion of our instruments occurring in the last couple weeks of the quarter.
The next question comes from the line of Eric Criscuolo of Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just filling in for Peter tonight.
The weakness in the industrials market this quarter what kind of customer types were kind of driving that weakness? So I would say first of all on the environmental side we actually saw a little growth on the industrial side.
And so the weakness was probably more on the environmental side than it was on the industrial side.
But historically our industrial customers -- or in the chemical petrochemical end markets is increasing some on the energy side.
So I would say that's the majority of what we -- or generally in industrial.
Yes.
I think in my -- it may have been confusing but in my prepared remarks industrial was up low-single digit.
And it is at least historically over the last several quarters been down.
So we did see a sequential improvement and year-over-year growth.
My comments also said we don't see that as being the type of growth rates we expect in the second half.
We still expect second half to be flat to down low-single.
Research Division</strong> Just lastly your next-generation sequencing services and your informatics around that market maybe could you talk about how that business has been performing for you and what you see in the future? So first of all it's a relatively small business for us.
And it’s a business that has been growing fairly significantly but of course off of a very low base.
One of the things that we're doing is shifting the emphasis of that business from the research market into more of a diagnostic play and we've got CLIA certified a couple of months ago.
And so with that shift I would say more recently we're seeing a little bit of the slowing of growth there but again that continues to be a relatively small business for us.
And I would now like to turn the call back over to Rob Friel for closing remarks.
Okay great.
Well first of all thank you for your questions.
And while we're closely watching the macroeconomic environment we were encouraged by our second quarter performance.
And I feel good about our organization and our ability to deliver our improved second half guidance.
I would like to close by reiterating our confidence in our long-term strategic plans and the opportunity to create shareholder value.
Thank you for your continued interest in PerkinElmer and have a great evening.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes your conference call for today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining.
Have a very good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the third quarter PerkinElmer earnings conference call.
My name is Philip and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Tommy Thomas Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Philip.
Good afternoon and welcome to the PerkinElmer's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
With me on the call are Rob Friel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Wilson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
If you have not received a copy of our earnings press release you may get one from the Investors section of our website at www.perkinelmer.com.
Please note this call is being webcast live and will be archived on our website until November 13 2013.
Before we begin we need to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor statements that we have outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings.
Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views only as of today.
We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements in the future even if our estimates change.
So you should not rely on any of today's forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any day after today.
During this call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available as an attachment to our earnings press release.
To the extent we use non-GAAP financial measures during this call that are not reconciled to GAAP in that attachment we will provide reconciliations promptly.
I'm now pleased to introduce the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PerkinElmer Rob Friel.
Rob? Thanks Tommy.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
I'm pleased to report that PerkinElmer achieved a very good performance in the third quarter.
Despite a tough prior period comparison we were able to deliver organic revenue growth of 2% which was at the high end of our guidance.
Also during the quarter we expanded adjusted operating margins by 30 basis points and grew adjusted earnings per share by 9% to $0.49 $0.01 better than the top end of our guidance.
With regard to our end-market conditions we did not experience a significant change from trends we saw in Q2.
In the pharma biotech research market we continued to experience high single-digit growth aided by our informatics and service offerings.
In clinical screening and infectious disease the markets grew mid-single digits as birthrates in the U.S.
continue to grow low single digits and demand remains strong in China.
Both the Environmental and Safety and Industrial markets grew low-single digits during the third quarter while our academic market was down mid-single digits as budget pressures continued to dampen demand.
Geographically we saw sequential improvement in the Americas particularly in the Environmental and Research markets.
However in Southeast Asia growth is slowing as a result of delayed capital investments into mostly the industrial end markets as many countries such as India are facing currency devaluation.
Despite this uneven macroeconomic environment we made good progress in areas we can control including delivering margin expansion and productivity gains during the quarter.
We successfully completed several manufacturing moves into Singapore and China consolidated some of the legacy Caliper sites into a newly-opened center for innovation and ramped up the functionality of our customer relationship center in Kraków Poland.
As you recall we took these actions to further simplify and rationalize our global manufacturing footprint improve our R&amp;D efficiencies and reduce our back-office expenses.
In addition we made good progress on our growth investments across our key end markets during the quarter.
We significantly expanded our relationship with TIBCO for the Spotfire software product a year after launching our successful collaboration which brought the power of the Spotfire analytics platform to the global research community our offering now positions PerkinElmer as the exclusive channel for Spotfire in clinical development and translational medicine.
PerkinElmer is now a single provider of informatics and data visualization tools to all functions of life science companies from early-stage discovery through development sales marketing and manufacturing.
In Diagnostics we made good headway in expanding our offerings into niche areas and new markets.
For example we saw tangible demand and a very strong tender win rate for nucleic acid test screens from our Haoyuan acquisition in China.
As a reminder the Chinese government has announced that it will mandate these screens for blood testing starting in 2015.
In the food market later this week at the International Dairy Show in Chicago we will launch the DairyGuard Milk Powder Analyzer the first in our new food guard platform series that leverages our frontier FTIR and proprietary algorithms specifically developed for food suppliers and manufacturers.
The DairyGuard will be the only system available that tests for unknown adulterants in milk powder to help customers avoid product safety issues and protect their brand image.
These investments in growth combined with others we have discussed previously plus the excellent momentum we are experiencing with many of our key customers reinforces our confidence that we can return to mid-single digit organic growth in 2014.
Turning to our outlook for the remainder of the year we are forecasting that Q4 organic revenue growth will be similar to what we experienced in the third quarter.
While revenue growth comparisons to last year become easier this quarter we believe it is prudent to guide conservatively given the current conditions in several of our markets and the potential for some impact from the U.S.
government shutdown that may result in revenue shifting out of the quarter.
Despite guiding to lower-single-digit organic growth we believe we can still deliver significant adjusted operating margin improvement in the quarter of greater than 50 basis points given the positive impact of the productivity actions I previously discussed.
With regard to adjusted EPS guidance for the year we are increasing the bottom end of our previous range by $0.01 to reflect the third quarter b and reducing the top end of the range by $0.03 due to the revenue risks I've noted.
This results in our full year adjusted EPS guidance changing to $2.04 to $2.07 from our previous guidance of $2.03 to $2.10.
I would now like to turn the call over to Andy to share more details on our results.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon everyone and a special good afternoon to everyone in Red Sox nation.
Consistent with prior quarters I'll provide some additional color on our end markets a financial summary of our third quarter results and details around our fourth quarter guidance.
Then we'll open up the call for questions.
As Rob mentioned earlier we were very encouraged by our performance in the third quarter as both adjusted and organic revenue came in at the top end of our guidance range.
Reported revenue increased by 3% while adjusted revenue and organic revenue both increased by 2%.
Adjusted revenue for the quarter was $525.1 million as compared to $514.8 million in the third quarter of 2012.
We experienced 4% organic revenue growth in our Environmental Health business while our Human Health business was flat primarily due to a difficult comparison to the same period last year.
Looking at our geographical results.
Organic revenue increased mid-single digits in the Americas low-single digits in Asia and declined low-single digits in Europe.
We are once again pleased with our performance in China as organic revenue increased low double digits despite our most difficult year-over-year comparison of more than 30%.
We remain encouraged by the strength and resiliency of the demand for our key Environmental and Diagnostics offerings in China which help address critical needs in that part of the world.
Looking at organic revenue growth by product category.
Recurring revenue which includes reagents consumables and service grew high-single digits in the quarter primarily as a result of continued strength in our OneSource Laboratory Service business and the success of our informatics offerings.
Organic revenue for our instrument and components offerings was down mid-single digit in the quarter primarily a result of prior-year comparison headwinds at our Medical Imaging business.
From an end market perspective our Human Health business represented approximately 56% of reported revenue in the quarter.
We serve 2 end markets in Human Health: Diagnostics which represented 27% of reported revenue; and Research which represented 29% of reported revenue.
Organic revenue from our Diagnostics business declined low single digits during the third quarter primarily impacted by the previously mentioned decline in our Medical Imaging business.
Excluding Medical Imaging our Diagnostics business grew mid single digits in the quarter.
We continue to benefit from positive U.S.
birthrates and the expansion of our newborn screening solutions in key regions outside the U S.
We are particularly pleased with our SYM-BIO infectious disease diagnostic offerings in China once again delivering organic revenue growth in the mid-teens as well as the ongoing newborn screening uptake in Asia which saw organic revenue growth of more than 30%.
As we forecasted on our last earnings call our Medical Imaging business faced significant headwinds in the quarter with organic revenues declining high-teens a result of customer ordering patterns and high-teens comparisons versus the same period last year.
We did however continued to see good acceptance of our CMOS offering in the marketplace as evidenced by 2 new industrial product design wins for nondestructive testing applications.
For the quarter CMOS organic revenue grew by more than 20%.
Our Research business delivered low single digit organic revenue growth in the third quarter versus the comparable period in 2012.
Despite ongoing funding challenges we experienced solid demand in our In Vivo business as well as in our informatics offerings which were notable standouts in the quarter particularly in the U.S.
During the quarter as Rob mentioned we completed the construction of our new center for innovation located in Hopkinton Massachusetts.
The recent opening of this state-of-the-art facility represents the culmination of our manufacturing and R&amp;D consolidation activities which began in 2012.
This initiative has resulted in the closure of 5 facilities and has afforded us the opportunity to better leverage our manufacturing operations as well as more effectively focus our R&amp;D efforts across the company.
Moving to Environmental Health which represents -- the business represented 44% of reported revenue in the third quarter.
We serve 3 end markets: Laboratory Services which represented 19% of reported revenue; Environmental Safety which represented 17% of reported revenue; and Industrial which represented 8% of reported revenue.
During the quarter we experienced mid single digit organic revenue growth in our Laboratory Services business and low single digit organic revenue growth in both our Industrial and Environmental and Safety businesses.
We are pleased with the organic revenue growth in the third quarter.
And while customers continue to be cautious with their capital spending we continue to be encouraged by strong order demand in China.
We experienced another solid quarter of organic revenue growth in our Laboratory Services business as we help our lab customers better manage their critical laboratory assets and related data needs.
Our OneSource business saw a robust revenue growth driven by an expansion of services within several major pharmaceutical companies during the quarter.
Turning to our margin performance in the period.
Adjusted gross margins were 47.4% as compared to 48.3% in the third quarter of 2012.
While currency was a headwind in the quarter the decline in gross margin is primarily due to 3 factors: First we incurred one-time costs related to the closure of 2 additional facilities we highlighted in Q2 in conjunction with the establishment of our center of innovation.
As mentioned earlier this effort is now largely complete and we expect gross margin savings in the fourth quarter as a result.
Second within informatics we deployed investments supporting our rollout of Spotfire into a number of new channels.
And third we continue to face product mix headwinds and modest pricing pressures in our environmental business primarily focused in emerging markets.
Adjusting operating margins in the third quarter were 15.5% as compared to 15.2% in the comparable period a year ago.
Restructuring efforts and operating expense controls enabled us to offset the lower adjusted gross margins just mentioned.
By segment adjusted operating margins in our Human Health business increased approximately 80 basis points to 22.4% as compared to 21.6% in the third quarter of 2012.
The increase was primarily the result of positive product mix and operating expense controls.
In our Environmental Health business adjusted operating margins declined approximately 60 basis points to 10.6% as compared to 11.2% in the third quarter of 2012.
This decrease was the result of price and product mix headwinds just mentioned.
GAAP operating income from continuing operations was $57.2 million in the third quarter of 2013 versus $43.2 million in the same period a year ago.
GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2013 was $0.36 compared to $0.25 in the third quarter last year.
Adjusted earnings per share was $0.49 in the third quarter of 2013 $0.02 above the midpoint of our guidance range.
On a non-GAAP basis our adjusted tax rate was approximately 19%.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We finished the third quarter with approximately $900 million of debt and approximately $130 million of cash.
We exited the quarter with a debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.4x and a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.1x.
Looking at our cash flow performance year-to-date adjusted operating cash flow from continuing operations was $161.8 million up 8% as compared to $150.3 million in 2012.
Adjusted operating cash flows are expected to continue to improve in Q4 primarily the result of lower working capital needs.
Turning to our Q4 of 2013 guidance.
As Rob mentioned there continues to be headwinds across many of our end markets.
And as a result of these headwinds we believe it's prudent and appropriate to be conservative in our outlook.
There are 2 specific areas that I'd like to discuss further.
First we are forecasting a softer performance in certain emerging markets where we experienced a modest slowing in the third quarter this year.
We believe recent currency fluctuations in certain geographies including India and Southeast Asia have dampened capital spending in these regions and we believe these markets will continue to moderate.
Secondly a large majority of our highly sensitive instruments are shipped overseas and require the issuance of government export licenses.
As the recent government shutdown has directly impacted this area we are currently waiting for the government to work through this backlog but expect the delay to have an impact on fourth quarter revenues.
We also expect the total revenue impact of these initiatives to be in the range of $10 million to $12 million in the fourth quarter.
And as a result we expect adjusted revenue for the fourth quarter to be in the range of $582 million to $592 million which assumes low single-digit organic revenue growth.
Regarding adjusted operating margins despite the impact from the revenue headwinds mentioned above we estimate adjusted operating margins will improve in the range of 60 to 80 basis points for the fourth quarter.
Our Q4 and full year adjusted tax rate is expected to be 21% and our weighted average diluted share count for the year is assumed to be approximately 113 million shares.
We expect interest and other expense to be approximately $12.5 million in the fourth quarter.
So based on these assumptions we now expect our Q4 adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $0.68 to $0.71.
This concludes my prepared remarks.
Operator at this time we'd like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Dave Clair in for Bill.
I guess the first one for me it sounds like the In Vivo business is going pretty well for you guys.
What's behind the growth there and what's your outlook going forward? So yes as you point out In Vivo grew probably mid single digits in the quarter.
And going back to the first quarter of this year where we -- there were some delays in the ordering pattern there we think we're catching up in Q2 and Q3.
We saw a very strong growth in the U.S.
and I think that was -- we're starting to see some of the funds that have been tied up in sequestration being released.
So like I said we saw very strong growth in the U.S.
And I think that's what's driving some of the growth in this quarter.
But fundamentally I think this is a good product and I think it's an attractive market.
And I think we continue to believe that this is a product that probably grows high single digits once we get through some of the issues with the sequestration.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then can you give us an update on the AxION iQT launch? How is that going and is that hitting internal expectations? So we continue to be very excited about the iQT offering as well as the longer-term opportunities we see to leverage the platform.
It continues to garner a lot of interest and we remain encouraged by the current interest levels from both customers and KOLs.
We purposely have a little bit of a minor delay due to -- attributable to some supplier issues and have used that time to build out our application support for several key market segments that have been identified based on customer feedback.
The delay will have a minimal impact on our Q4 revenue.
But again because of some supplier issues it's been pushed back a short period of time.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Muken from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> On the panel business I mean the weakness was expected rather than you guys highlighted last call.
I admit it my memory serves me poorly but I thought we were supposed to get -- I thought that was more of a timing issue than something related to demand.
And so as we look at the 4Q assumption do we get some of that back? Is that a 2014 revenue line now? I'm just trying to get a sense for the sequential...
So specifically in the Q3 it was really a year-over-year comp issue.
I think we talked about this before based on some ordering patterns.
Our customers ordered a lot of panels in 2012.
As we think about Q4 now we think this business returns to probably mid single digit growth.
And as we go out into '14 we think that level may be even a little better than that.
So it returns to a more normal growth rate where we think it's sort of a mid to high single digit growth business.
But again Q3 was driven more by ordering patterns in 2012 that caused the decline or drove a lot of the decline in Q3.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess just mathematically by that going from a high-teens decline or to a -- to growth it's got a pretty upward impact on organic.
I guess I'm just trying to see what the delta is.
I mean the comp sequentially is not tougher.
So I'm just trying to get a sense for how much kind of conservatism you're putting into the revenue forecast just based on all the uncertainty.
I know you called out some of the delays.
It's just the first time we've heard of that.
So I'm just trying to figure out how much is you sort of assuming stuff doesn't get shipped because you don't have the export licenses plus some of the shutdown on the consumable side plus anything else in the emerging markets versus sort of some of this we're getting back.
I'm just trying to tease out...
Yes I would say relative to our original forecast at Q4 about half of that is attributable to -- and again this is -- we're trying to estimate this based on the backlog that's at the government export license right now.
But we think that could be sort of half of the issue.
And we think the other half is potentially just some slowing in the selective emerging markets as Andy talked to.
It's really just a couple of the areas in Southeast Asia where we believe that we've seen a fairly dramatic devaluation of their currency and at least we're seeing some impact there in the industrial end markets.
So again probably $5 million there and probably $5 million potential risk associated with the government licenses.
And again you hadn't heard about it before because it's never been an issue.
I mean this is something that generally works well.
But I think because of the shutdown of the government we're stacking up against a relatively tight timeframe to get this stuff out.
Research Division</strong> No that's appreciated.
And maybe for Andy on the margins you've done quite well relative to what's been a tough top line or tougher than an average year.
How does -- sort of the progression we've had so far this year how does it make you think about your multiyear targets? Do you still feel good about where that is? Is it more a top line dependent now? I'm just trying to get a sense for -- have you sort of back solved with costs for your multiyear plan or maybe the revenue outlook kind of puts a little bit of a question mark next to it? Ross I think we've always said that in order to achieve our 4-year goals we really needed mid single-digit organic growth.
So I think when we don't get that it makes it much more difficult.
But if I step back and look at what we've done to-date I think we've made great progress on the initiatives we've talked about over the last several years I think certainly the last several quarters.
We may have been a little bit late with the center of innovation at Hopkinton but it is now up and running.
And I think we're going to start see good savings from that.
I think Project Rabbit [ph] continues to ramp as we try to get supply chain savings.
This is our name for the movement of the manufacturing over to Asia.
And then on the operating expense side we should be completely moved in to Krakow by the end of this year so we will have all of our European back-office operations basically domiciled now in Krakow.
So there's a number of savings opportunities that are now getting close to or are already completed.
So I think structurally we're going to have a very good position.
I think we still need that organic growth to drive significant leverage on that but I feel very good about where we are today with those initiatives.
The next question comes from the line of Paul Knight with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Hi Rob.
Could you point to -- what was it chromatography spectroscopy what end markets as well on the Environmental Health side? Does it continue to be what a shallow recovery and weak or -- what exactly was it? So Paul actually when you look at it from a technology perspective the 4% growth in the third quarter it was fairly broad-based.
So whether it was chromatography Metcar or inorganic we saw similar levels of growth call it sort of low to mid single digit growth across the entire product portfolio.
So we were pleased to see that.
Andy mentioned the fact that OneSource continued to do well.
If you look at it geographically what you see is good growth in the Americas again sort of mid single digits a slight decline in Europe sort of low single digits and continued strong penetration in China.
So in the Environmental area China again was sort of north of 20%.
Research Division</strong> And then on the facility consolidation could you go over that again? I mean you've said it's 5 facilities I think it was less than that when you spoke to it a year ago or so.
And did it start just recently or at the beginning of the quarter? When was the exact timing you expect to see benefit from that? Right.
So our initial plan was to consolidate 3 facilities one of them in Canada 2 of those in the West Coast into Hopkinton.
And then in Q2 particularly post Q1 when we saw a revenue growth lower than we anticipated we made the decision to put 2 additional facilities in the Hopkinton.
And again Andy alluded to the little bit of pressure on the gross margin in this quarter getting that completed.
Those are now done.
Last week we actually kicked off the opening of the Hopkinton Center.
And as Andy said it's a workplace facility and we're quite excited about it.
So our expectation is we'll start to see benefits in Q4.
It is to some extent why you're seeing or at least we're forecasting greater than 50 basis points of operating margin expansion despite guiding to low single digit growth.
So some of those productivity savings that we've been talking about over the last couple quarters we expect to start seeing in Q4 and obviously as we get into 2014.
The next question comes from the line of Doug Schenkel from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> My first question is -- and I apologize if I missed this in your prepared remarks.
Did you talk about growth in Japan and specifically how stimulus is impacting your performance in that geography? And how should we think about the outlook from here related to stimulus? So we didn't talk about Japan specifically but Japan in the quarter grew across the company low single digits.
I think it was around 3%.
And I think we're starting to see some benefit from the stimulus but it's not a significant driver to the growth at this point.
We hope as we get -- sort of probably into '14 is where we'll hope to see more of an impact for that.
And I would say our expectation continues to be in sort of low to mid single digits maybe increasing a little bit as we get into '14 as we get -- as I said some of the benefits of participating in the additional funding being provided by the government.
So I think since Q1 we've continued to see sequential improvement in Japan and I think that will continue for the next couple of quarters.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful.
And during the quarter Merck announced plans to rationalize some of their R&amp;D efforts.
I believe Merck's a customer of yours.
I can see where this would be potentially a threat to revenues.
I can also see where this would be really good opportunity for you to go in and work with them as they work through this process.
Could you just help us understand how we should think about either this announcement specifically or more broadly whether the things like this are really a threat or really an opportunity for you? So I would say first of all whenever one of our customers or sort of a group of companies announces a restructuring it can be difficult for a number of constituents.
However as you sort of point out if you think about the logic and the rationale for these types of announcements it's all around becoming more efficient in how they run their R&amp;D facilities.
And that really sort of plays into the strategy of not only OneSource but real -- our emphasis in informatics.
And as you point out while specific to certain customers there may be some minor impacts.
But quite frankly that's offset by other outsourcing opportunities around relocation scientific services and asset management sort of more than offsets that.
But when we think about the opportunity to penetrate more pharmaceutical companies with our OneSource and informatics offerings we think this provides a tremendous opportunity.
And we talked about the fact that OneSource had a nice growth in Q3.
And so the dialogue now around driving productivity in the pharma and biotech markets being somewhat necessitated by the restructuring actions is really driving great demand again not only for OneSource but as our informatics capabilities are being deployed into OneSource to enable customers to better understand the capital purchases they need to make and the utilization of their assets within their labs I think it's just going to create a great opportunity to further penetrate what we think is probably a $1.5 billion to $2 billion market opportunity where we're just scratching the surface right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Amit Bhalla with Citigroup.
This is Nick Nohling in for Amit today.
First off could you talk a little bit just about trends in emerging markets.
I mean it seems coming into the quarter you were a little bit more cautious on the emerging markets in the second half.
And it seems like pretty much your market performance is pretty good in the quarter but you did cite some moving parts there.
So what's going to lead to the slowdown? Is China going to be as strong also to offset some of these other EM government regulation concerns? Yes.
So first of all to clarify we continue to see good growth.
And emerging markets generally speaking specifically and China did well and Brazil did well.
I think our comments were really talking about a subset of those countries particularly where there's been -- at least our belief has been influenced by currency devaluations.
So I think a good example is India where the rupee is down double digits over the last couple quarters.
And of course as a local company buying product that's dollar based that's dramatically increasing the price of those products.
And so we're seeing in Southeast Asia and in India specifically slowing demand where historically that's been sort of a solid mid-teens grower and that's moderating into sort of mid to high single digits.
And so that's where we're just sort of teeing up as a little concerning.
It's -- 1 point doesn't make a trend.
But as we go into Q4 we're concerned that we're not going to see a moderation of the currency pressure and therefore that's going to continue to put pressure on capital purchases and like I said particularly in the industrial markets where there's maybe some more flexibility in deferring them those purchases for maybe 1 or 2 quarters.
We don't think this is necessarily a longer-term trend but it's just something that we have identified.
But again to reinforce in places like China and Brazil we continue to see very good strength.
Okay great.
And then when you think about 2014 you are confident that you can get back up to mid single digit growth what are the businesses that you look at to see the inflection point that's going to get the overall company to get back into that mid single digit? Is it a turnaround in the industrial business? Where is the focus points to where the business is going to turn? So I would say when we talk about mid single digit growth for '14 the assumption is that the fundamental end markets are not going to change significantly.
And so what's going to make the difference to a large sense is either comps in our business and particularly where we talk about Medical Imaging.
So when I was discussing with Ross earlier if you look at 2012 we had a very strong growth in Medical Imaging clearly greater than the market.
And in hindsight it was really probably some ordering patterns that our customer maybe sort of built some inventory.
And we had to sort of burn that off in '13.
So Medical Imaging will probably not grow in '13.
And going into '14 we think we'll have that inventory burned off and you'll see sort of normal market growth of sort of mid to high single digits.
So that's an indication where it's more unique to our business rather than market.
And then I think the other areas are largely driven by new product introductions or fundamental changes in the businesses that we think can -- should allow us to get to more of a mid single digit organic growth.
The next question comes from the line of Dan Arias from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Rob can you elaborate a bit on Europe? How did the orders pace through the quarter? And I guess given where you left off in September what are you thinking for 4Q there? I think comps get a little bit easier year-over-year.
Yes.
So when we look -- and I would say this is true not only of Europe but we didn't see a significant change in ordering patterns really through the quarter relative to let's say period periods -- previous periods.
So consequently our view is that Europe in Q4 looks probably fairly similar to Q3.
And for us it was sort of slightly down down low single digits.
So that's our assumption.
In fact when we look at Q4 generally from a geographic perspective our assumption is it really looks very similar to Q3.
So Europe down slightly America is in the sort of low- to mid-single digits and Asia probably more mid single digits.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when we think about your assumption that the end market conditions next year are unchanged should we think about the natural improvement in the business that you would get just from macroeconomic conditions being slightly better on say GDP view as serving as an offset to something on the Human Health side? Or would be upside? Just sort of where your expectation's were...
No.
I would say right now if there was a better GDP growth in 2014 I think that probably would be more -- I would think of that more of upside than I would as sort of offsetting concerns in other parts of the business.
The next question comes from the line of -- from Brandon Couillard with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Andy could you quantify the 3 factors that contributed to the gross margin pressure in the third quarter? And then as we'd look into the fourth quarter margin ramp what are some of the puts and takes between mix restructuring and otherwise that gives you confidence in the uptick sequentially? Yes of the 3 items I would say the first 2 I mentioned which is really around investments as we opened up the center of innovation.
And the second one...
The informatics.
The informatics I would say that's probably about a little less than half of the impact.
And I would say the remainder of that would have been the margin headwinds the mix headwinds in emerging -- in the Environmental Health.
So that's the way I would split it.
I think if you look at the fourth quarter we are going to start to see an improvement in the gross margins because we've now completed the Hopkinton transition.
We also have completed as I spoke before the transition to Asia which provides us with some savings also on the margin side as we optimize our supply chain.
And then there were some minor restructuring that will also help us in the fourth quarter.
So I see -- there could be some continued pressures within Environmental Health but I think we'll be able to offset some of those one by not having to spend in the fourth quarter but two we're starting to realize the savings of those initiatives that we have completed.
Research Division</strong> And then on the cash flow front pretty nice progress on the DSO side but still only about 70% free cash flow conversion.
How should we think about that metric as we look out into '14? And was there also a divestiture benefit in the investing cash flow line as well? It was.
It was a small -- it was the divestiture at an Asian facility but it was single-digit $1.5 million.
The way to look at I think cash flow going forward is certainly in the last 2 or 3 quarters we've seen a buildup of inventory.
As we started to do consolidation activities around the manufacturing facilities we've had to had duplicative levels of inventory.
I think you'll start to see those bleed down in the fourth quarter.
I think you'll also start to see those improve as we get through the year.
I think on the DSO side and the receivables side that continues to be a challenge.
We have -- I think have made good progress against our aging but we have a lot of customers that are putting additional pressure on stretching those receivables out.
So we continue to have to manage that.
But I think all-in I think we should start to see more of a normalization of that working capital and I think that will eventually end up allowing us to get closer to that 1:1 conversion of net income to free cash flow but we have a ways to go to get there.
Your next question comes from the line of Tycho Peterson with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Rob I wanted to go back to the comments you made earlier on OneSource.
It sounds like you're getting good traction there.
Can you just talk to the degree that this is going deeper with existing customers? Or are these competitive wins? And then to what degree are you bundling informatics? You called that out as a decent opportunity.
So I'm just wondering how often [indiscernible] As I would say when you think about the growth we've seen it's really a little bit of both.
So it's continuing to do more with our existing customers but we've had a couple of nice wins here in the first couple of quarters of the year.
And that puts a little pressure on gross margins as well.
Andy didn't talk about that.
But when we win a OneSource contract there's obviously some investments upfront to do that and obviously that improves the profitability going forward.
But I think we have had some nice wins.
I would say not as much as penetration outside of pharma up to this point and I think that provides another opportunity but we continue to see opportunity there.
But I would say we're not getting as much traction there.
With regard to the informatics business and the deployment into OneSource we've got a number of sites where we're doing that but that's still probably a relatively small percentage of revenue.
But we think it's a nice opportunity for us and it provides a significant differentiation.
And I think when you talk to the customers as to why they chose or choose PerkinElmer in a lot of these competitive situations I think the capability to bundle informatics and our historical OneSource capability is a big factor.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if we think about the labs business you guys just launched the pre-eclampsia screening test can you maybe just talk about how you think about that opportunity and then further menu buildout? Is there ongoing opportunity? Can you just talk to the investments there? I think as we look at our screening business whether it's newborn or prenatal we continue to see that as a good growth opportunity and it's both sort of penetrating new markets but continuing to build out the menu.
And I would say the menu expansion as well as the penetration of additional whether it's countries or reaching more children it's all contributed to our view that this is an area of the business that I think can over a long period of time grow mid- to high-single digits.
And so in any given period it may be driven by penetration into countries or markets or it may be driven by menu expansion.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last one on Imaging and actually on In Vivo Imaging so for Caliper can you just talk about how that business I mean you had a nice recovery last quarter after the March quarter issues? But can you maybe just talk to whether that business is kind of back on track and the outlook there? Yes.
So it grew mid-single digits in the third quarter.
So again this has been a little bit less than what we've seen historically.
And I think sequestration continues to have an impact on dampening some of demand there.
But I think we continue to feel very good about that business.
And I think as we go into '14 we think that will be a big contributor getting to that mid single digit organic growth we talked about.
Your next question comes from the line of Zarak Khurshid from Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> So the developments with A1 sound pretty interesting.
Can you provide a little color just on the broader opportunity there and timing around the Chinese mandate and tenders and other opportunities in Asia? Yes so as you pointed out we were -- we feel good about that.
There were 7 tenders in the last quarter and we won 5 of those.
So we feel good about our win rate.
I would say the revenue ramp-up has not been as significant as we would like because some of the locations in China are sort of late in funding it.
As you may know the Chinese government mandates nucleic acid testing for blood screening by beginning of 2015.
So there's still some time to ramp up.
But we feel good about our win rate and we think this provides a significant market growth opportunity for us.
But I would say the revenue is still sort of the single million dollar range.
It will start to ramp in '14 but I think you'll see the real growth occur in the 2015 timeframe.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's very helpful.
And then the DairyGuard opportunity sounds pretty interesting to us.
Can you just maybe talk about the -- I guess the selling process there in terms of -- are these current customers that you're already selling into? And how does that business look in terms of a razor razor blade model and just overall opportunity? So we have a good food business today.
It continues to do well.
And think of this as a new product offering.
I think in a lot of these end markets it's all around getting innovation into the marketplace that allows our customers to be able to find things that they couldn't see before again sensitivity speed accuracy and those types of things.
So we're excited about the opportunity.
As I mentioned this is utilizing our FTIR capability combined with some significant capabilities that we have around algorithms.
So we think it's an exciting market for us.
We do think this is a unique offering in the marketplace from the perspective of there's not an analyzer today out in the marketplace that can look at powdered milk for pollutants or adulterants.
And so it's early days.
Like I said it's going to be introduced at a dairy show here on Friday.
But we feel good about it.
We have a channel into food already.
And so this will be largely through our direct channel into the food industry.
Your next question comes from the line of Derik De Bruin from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So one housekeeping question.
Top line FX impact you're looking for in Q4? It will be a little less than 100 basis points which is similar to what it was last year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Okay.
And there's been some chatter coming out of China about potentially relaxing the 1-child policy.
Have you heard anything on that recently? And obviously it will be a positive for your business if that were to happen.
So I would say we've heard the same chatter that you have.
But I would -- we don't have any more definitive information as to when that might be relaxed.
But like you said there's a lot of discussion around that.
And obviously that would be a positive for the business.
And we think probably over time it will probably to take a couple of years to ramp up but it could lead to a $20 million to $25 million increase in revenue for us over multiple years.
Research Division</strong> Great.
You mentioned something about some pricing pressure in the environmental markets if I heard you correctly.
Was that local vendors or is that the usual suspects just being a little bit more aggressive in the emerging markets? I would say probably more of the latter.
And where you see it more aggressively is in government tenders.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Just one final question.
A lot of noise recently in the bioinformatics space a lot of acquisitions obviously big push on it.
What's going on with Spotfire and Geospiza.
And I guess are you -- can you talk about a little bit about how you're -- are you winning any new contracts what's going on in terms of the growth rate? I'm always still a little bit curious on how to model that business.
So first of all I think the noise in that area hopefully validates that it's attractive so we feel good about that.
So as I think about our approach it's really targeted at really a higher level of integration of information.
So we're quite excited about the Spotfire clinical deal.
And when we combine that with our previous capabilities think of our approach as really building a platform through the interface of research in clinical so really more focus on translational opportunities.
And of course that leverages our knowledge not only in the research area but our experience in diagnostics.
So we're sort of more of a platform play across research and clinical versus a specialized play on a particular technology.
So maybe that helps you sort of differentiate that.
And Andy alluded to this in his comments we continue to see nice growth in informatics.
We continue to get good traction with particularly the large pharma.
In particular we had a user group meeting here a couple of weeks ago where we had what we call the Executive Customer Advisory Board.
It's attended by the top 15 global pharmaceutical companies.
And they continue to sort of embrace our strategy of this sort of translation opportunity in medicine.
So we continue to be quite excited about it.
And we think it can grow double digits for the foreseeable future from a top line perspective.
And obviously this is a business that has very nice operating margins associated with it.
Your next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the newborn business just wondering if you put a little more color on the trends you saw this quarter geographically.
Any notable tenders on the horizon as well just outside the U.S.
that we should be aware of? Well the U.S.
we get helped by the growth -- in birth.
For us it looks like it's about a 2% number sort of low single digits.
We saw some nice growth in South America.
And I think Andy mentioned the fact that in China we continue to see good adoption there so very strong growth in APAC.
We did not see as much growth in the EMEA region.
And I think some of that was just some delay in spending.
We did get some pushout -- we had mentioned a number of years ago that we had put some big installations into the Middle East.
And some of the disruption there I think has delayed some investment.
So from a geographic perspective Europe sort of down slightly Americas call it mid single digits South America and APAC very strong growth sort of north of 20%.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just a follow-up on the Caliper franchise.
If we look across the NGS landscape a lot of the major players there have made some interesting technology acquisitions and sample prep.
You guys have obviously had a pretty good track record in playing around the edges there pretty successfully.
Just wondering if you could maybe talk a little bit about the long-term plus maybe you have regarding a new product development and how you plan to participate in the continued growth of sequencing as we look towards toward 2014 and beyond? Yes I think it's similar to what we've talked about in the past where we think there's real value opportunity in the sequencing workflow to be in the front end in the automation and sample prep.
And we'll continue to innovate there.
It's an area we continue to make significant investments.
We hope to come out with some products hopefully in '14 that will continue to advance innovation in that area.
And also in the back end in the informatics area and leveraging what we're doing with Geospiza and now using some of the capabilities with Spotfire.
So I think our strategy will continue to be in those focused areas.
And as you're pointing that out that's -- we think that's a nice growth area and I think we're well-positioned in those 2 spaces.
Your next question comes from the line of Daniel Brennan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to figure out maybe on the fourth quarter guidance I know you called out the $10 million to $12 million the kind of one-timers.
If we strip those out like can you just give us a high level view how would you characterize the demand environment for your businesses in the fourth quarter? We think stable maybe weakening a bit improving a bit? How would you think about it from a high level? No I think it's stable as I sort of alluded to with the exception of Medical Imaging which is really sort of a year-over-year comp issue and so we're looking to see some improvement there.
But I think order trends and I talked about even toward the latter part of Q3 I think are fairly stable here.
So we've got some concerns as we voiced in this sort of $10 million.
But other than that we feel pretty good about the demand profile in the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe Andy to the extent the environment remains muted possibly we don't get this industrial recovery that could mean maybe PMI does I suggest and it doesn't translate into increased demand and we get to '14 and the top line hasn't recovered to the extent you hoped for how much of the margin expansion is in your control given the discrete actions you guys have already taken and how much is dependent upon top line? Such that let's say you grew 3% next year what -- can you frame a little bit of a margin sensitivity towards maybe a 3% growth and a 6% growth or however you want to phrase it to give us a sense of how much is in your control? Maybe I'll take it to an even more draconian level and say if we really are kind of volume neutral going forward we have a certain amount of savings that should generate about 100 basis points of margin expansion.
And as we start to look out at the top line starting to improve I think if we get to that 5% to 6% mid-single digit level that we hope to in 2014 we have some fairly significant leverage not only on the gross margin line but even more significantly in the operating margin line.
But I think we've -- in the past when we've been at those levels and we've been able to do certainly well north of 100 in some cases north of 150 I think we're in a much better position today.
So I think if we can get to those types of revenue numbers we should see some fairly robust margin expansion.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe one more just on the acquisition strategy I know you guys have discussed how given the business is optimized you feel you have the right pieces to the puzzle but now you're looking at maybe some tuck-ins here incrementally.
I just want to go back to the Thermo Life deal and just kind of check in with you guys now.
I think you guys have discussed in the past your OneSource business which is critical and growing nicely is sticky given some of the informatics business as you can put on that.
But just stepping back I just would love to get your take on the acquisition strategy kind of going forward from here whether directly addressing Thermo Life or just how do you think about opportunities as they come up? So I think you've characterized it well from the standpoint of we feel good about the portfolio but always looking for opportunities to improve it and so I think right now our approach is continually look at bolt-ons and look in those areas where we can continue to be differentiated in our offerings.
So I think one of the reasons I mentioned before that we've been successful in OneSource is when we combine it with deploying the informatics capability that starts to really differentiate us in the marketplace.
And so that's the area that we want to focus on.
So obviously the Imaging area is an area that we like both from a growth perspective and our internal capabilities.
You know our emerging diagnostic capabilities are ones that we think we can continue to build and work off the terrific channel we have there.
And so again it's going to be probably focused in those areas where we both have good market positions today but also see nice growth prospects and continue to differentiate us from other competitors.
And your next question comes from the line of Steve Willoughby from Cleveland Research.
Just a couple of quick ones.
One I was wondering if you could tell us how much of your total revenue comes from places like India and Southeast Asia or maybe just emerging markets minus China or something like that? Yes.
This is Andy.
Our total emerging market exposure is around 28% and.
I would say China is around 11% 12% of that and the rest is pretty widely distributed.
In total it's a little north of 25% of our total revenue.
But India specifically is around 2% to 3%.
And if you look at Southeast Asia as a whole it probably adds another 6%-ish.
So southeast Asia and India will be something sort of south of 10%.
Okay got you.
And then just on your guidance I guess for the fourth quarter for the full year I understand the $10 million to $12 million of revenue impact.
Is that the main driver to the top end of your EPS guidance coming down? Is that the right way to think about it? Because I also saw you're saying your effective tax rate is also going to come down 1% as well.
I'm just trying to think about what the moving pieces are there.
Yes I mean that's the major driver to coming off the top end because I think we felt that in order to get to top end of our guidance previously we would have had to have been closer to the top end of the revenue guidance.
And I think because of some of the things we talked about before we think it's right now prudent to sort of guide down and consequently if we're not going to get to the top end of the revenue it's unrealistic to think we get to the top end of the EPS.
Okay got you.
And then just final thing there was an article in the press a week or so ago talking about some air quality monitoring business that you've won in China.
I'm just wondering if you could provide any more color or timing or size on that.
Yes.
So that's a partnership we have with the China State Environmental Protection Administration.
And it's really a partnership with them to help set the air quality standards as well as test for heavy medical particles in the air.
To me it sort of speaks to the terrific relationships and capabilities we have broadly in emerging markets but specifically in China.
And I would say for the next couple of quarters I wouldn't think of it is a huge revenue driver.
But I think again it's the relationships we build with the government agencies.
And as we come out with more innovation and new products I think it opens up the opportunity to grow fairly significantly.
And as you know China is dedicating a significant amount of resources to improve their air quality.
So we're quite excited about it.
But I would say for the next couple of quarters that's not going to be a significant revenue contributor.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Leonard from Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to clarify so did gross margin in the quarter did it come in line with your internal plan or was there some variance from plan? It was down slightly from plan partly because of some of the mix shift that we saw in Environmental Health.
We had not forecasted that level of mix and mix headwinds.
Yes.
So when Andy talked about the 3 factors clearly the informatics investment was in our plan.
Post the Q2 announcement to move those other 2 facilities in we suspected there will be a little bit of additional cost through our cost of sales line.
But I think the mix and to some extent the pricing pressure was a little bit more than we thought.
And I think the last item is we had really hoped to complete the Hopkinton move at the beginning of the third quarter.
We really didn't open the facility until the beginning of the fourth quarter.
So the savings we had hoped to get will -- are still there.
They're just pushed out a quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally can you give us an update on how a couple of your important growth drivers for '14 are tracking maybe something around the order book for the iQT and also the cell-free fetal DNA? So I mentioned little bit before that we continue to see good receptivity in the marketplace as we talk to potential customers and KOLs but because of a specific supplier issue around one of the components the actual shipment of the product will not occur until the first quarter of 2014.
Again minimal impact in Q4.
And we really don't think it's going to have a significant impact in 2014 as well.
Again but based on early indications we feel good about that.
And we continue to make nice progress on our contracting with regard to NIPT.
I think now we're up over 160 million covered lives.
And again we feel good about the growth opportunities but that will also be more of a 2014 growth driver.
Some revenue this year but relatively small.
Research Division</strong> You said that supply issue is not going to impact you on iQT that's not going to impact you in 2014? No we don't think -- minimal but not much of a big impact.
It's a supplier issue yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Criscuolo from Mizuho.
Research Division</strong> On the facility relocations specifically the international relocations does that have any positive effect on the tax rate going forward? Well we do have an opportunity with Singapore to leverage our tax planning.
So there is potentially a modest benefit from that.
I think it really -- the bigger fluctuations around the tax rate really are around where our operating income is domiciled.
So I think it's difficult to say or pinpoint how much it's going to be.
It is somewhat of a tailwind.
And as we kind of move through '14 we'll probably update you on that progress.
Yes.
But I would say by moving the manufacturing out it does put some downward pressure on the tax rate.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And on the informatics the bioinformatics businesses that you have do they have similar margin profiles to the typical software industry margins? So it depends a little bit on what part of the software business.
So I would say the electronic notebook business I would say yes.
The Spotfire is a little lower because -- think of that as sort of a licensing agreement so still very good margins.
But because we're paying some licensing to TIBCO for that there's lower margins associated with the Spotfire business as compared to the electronic notebook business.
Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude the question-and-answer portion of today's call.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Rob Friel for closing remarks.
Great.
Well first of all thank you for your questions.
So in summary I'm pleased with how the company is executing on balancing growth investments while being responsive to global economic conditions.
Again just to reinforce I remain confident we have created a really great foundation to deliver long-term value to our shareholders while helping customers solve critical challenges in both Human and Environmental Health.
Thank you for your continued interest in PerkinElmer and have a great evening.
Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2013 PerkinElmer Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Whitney and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to host for today Mr.
Tommy Thomas Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Whitney.
Good afternoon and welcome to the PerkinElmer fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
With me in the call are Rob Friel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Wilson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
If you have not received the copy of our earnings press release you may get one from the Investors section of our website at www.perkinelmer.com.
Please note this call is being webcast live and will be archived on our website until February 13 2014.
Before we begin we need to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor statements that we have outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings.
Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views only as of today.
We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements in the future even if our estimates change.
So you should not rely on any of today's forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any day after today.
During this call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available as an attachment to our earnings press release.
To the extent we use non-GAAP financial measures during this call that are not reconciled to GAAP statement in that attachment we will provide reconciliations promptly.
I am now pleased to introduce the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PerkinElmer Rob Friel.
Rob? Thanks Tommy.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
I'm pleased to report PerkinElmer achieved a very good performance in the fourth quarter.
During the quarter organic revenue grew 3% and expanded adjusted operating margins by 90 basis points resulting in adjusted EPS of $0.73 a 12% increase relative to Q4 in 2012.
Operating cash flow is also strong increasing significantly over Q4 last year to $71 million.
All of these financial metrics exceeded our expectations.
And while it is rewarding to close the year with strong financial results more importantly we ended 2013 a stronger company.
During 2013 we made excellent progress on our productivity programs to rationalize our production footprint shift production to lower-cost regions better leverage our G&amp;A expenses and both simplify and strengthen our organization.
In addition we continue to make strides in expanding our capabilities into targeted high-growth markets with a number of innovative new products launching in the first half of this year.
We enter 2014 much better positioned to accelerate profitable growth and deliver innovative solutions to meaningfully improve human environmental health.
As Andy will describe our Q4 results in detail I will focus my comments on our end markets and discuss our guidance for 2014.
Starting first with Diagnostics.
Our specific end markets continue to be positively influenced by 2 major factors.
The first is a desire by health care professionals to identify potential health problems as early as possible because of both the clinical and economic benefits of early diagnosis.
Second the introduction of new technologies products and analysis tools particularly in emerging markets is providing opportunities for us to leverage our knowledge and infrastructure.
More specifically we expect newborn screening to continue to expand into new markets globally additional expansion of the newborn testing menus in certain geographies and noninvasive prenatal testing to grow sequentially as reimbursement trends improve.
In China we continue to introduce new products expand our product and service capabilities and gain market share in the areas of infectious disease testing.
For example we won nearly half of the Chinese tender for nucleic acid blood screening last year solidifying our position as one of the top 2 providers in China.
Due to our unique value proposition in emerging markets our strong positions in newborn and prenatal screening and the overall market expansion of these segments we are forecasting our Diagnostic business to grow mid- to high single-digits in 2014.
In Life Science Research market conditions are clearly better than a year ago.
The certainty concerning the NIH budget should avoid the funding delays we experienced last year and its 3.5% budget increase will improve public spending on research.
In addition biotech companies are increasing R&amp;D spending and we are seeing modest improvements in selected foreign accounts.
In addition to the improved market conditions we introduced several new products this month and expect to launch several more midyear which should provide incremental revenue growth.
Two of the new products I'd like to highlight are the Opera Phenix launched at SLAS last week which is a high content screening system using a proprietary technology called Synchrony Optics employing dual view confocal optics for significantly better speed and sensitivity by eliminating crosstalk between channels for 4 different markers simultaneously.
In addition we're introducing a multi-label slide scanner for research pathology called the Lamina that leverages our proprietary technology to reduce auto-fluorescence and improves the visualization of disease marker expression.
Based on the forecasted impact of our new products and the improved end-market conditions we are forecasting mid-single digit growth for the non-rad portion of our life science portfolio with continued headwinds from Radiochemicals resulting in overall growth in our Research business of low to mid-single-digits.
In our Environmental end markets overall conditions also seem to be improving as capital expenditures in the developed world are recovering with PMI data in most of Europe at levels above the average for 2013 and continuing to indicate expansion.
CapEx spending also appears to be improving in the U.S.
but we are cautious given the likelihood of continued tapering by the Fed.
We are also watching the implications of Fed tapering on certain emerging markets.
However we saw no impact in Q4 as growth continue to be double-digit.
And to date we have seen no signs of a decrease in order demand.
Looking at specific application areas.
Food analysis continue to be an attractive market as increasing regulation on food control and production and brand protection from adulteration is increasing demand for food testing mid- to high-single digits.
The environmental monitoring labs continue to consolidate and restructure but regional areas of growth exist through the new water regulations in Europe and increased air monitoring in China.
Demand from our industrial customers is largely tied to macro GDP growth.
However we do see opportunities for strong growth in materials research and testing applications particularly in alternative energy.
Finally we continue to see our pharma customers outsourcing non-core activities providing significant opportunities for our OneSource business.
Based on this outlook for end markets combined with the introduction of the iQT mass spec and several other new products we believe our environmental business should grow mid-single-digits this year.
A further contributor to our growth this year will be expanding the adoption of Spotfire visualization software.
Recently we introduced SciStream which is a new configuration of Spotfire that allows direct collection of data from instruments bypassing the need for additional programming.
Initially we are focusing this product on our line of plate readers but eventually we will deploy the growth of the majority of instrument platforms providing a significant competitive advantage to our detection and imaging products and improving our customer's ability to visualize and analyze samples.
Turning to full year 2014 guidance for the company we are forecasting organic growth of mid-single-digits for the full year with slightly higher growth in the second half due to the timing of new product introductions.
As a result of the productivity projects completed last year and the higher volume we should experience a significant adjusted operating margin expansion and our forecasted adjusted EPS in the range of $2.40 to $2.45 which represents adjusted EPS growth of 15% to 18%.
EPS growth should be evenly distributed throughout the year as the slightly higher revenue growth in the back half is compensated by the easier comps in the first half.
Also I should mention that our financial guidance does not assume any impact from the deployment of capital.
Before I turn the call over to Andy to share more details on our 2013 results and 2014 guidance I wanted to briefly mention our 3 key leadership objectives for the year.
The first is accelerating profitable revenue growth by executing on our strategic plans.
This incorporates increasing our leadership position in key end markets by leveraging our capabilities in detection imaging informatics and service.
Second is achieving sustainable best-in-class quality by producing superior products and driving efficiencies in all our processes.
And third is building employee engagement and organizational strength through collaboration and investing in our people.
We believe that engaging our employees in achieving these priorities will lead not only to a very successful 2014 but will also be fundamental in fortifying the company for sustainable long-term growth and shareholder value creation.
I would now like to turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon everyone.
I'll provide some additional color on our end markets a financial summary of our fourth quarter results and details around our Q1 and full year 2014 guidance and then we'll open up the call for questions.
As Rob mentioned earlier we were pleased with our performance in the fourth quarter.
Reported revenue increased by 4% while adjusted and organic revenue both increased by 3%.
Adjusted revenue for the quarter was $594 million as compared to $577 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
By segment our organic revenue in Human Health business grew 4% while organic revenue in our Environmental Health business grew 1%.
Looking at our geographical results.
Organic revenue increased high single-digits in Europe and Asia but declined low single-digits in the Americas primarily the result of a difficult high single-digit year-over-year comparison.
We were pleased with our performance in China as organic revenue once again increased double digits despite a difficult year-over-year comparison of more than 20%.
We continue to be encouraged by the demand trends for our key environmental and diagnostic offerings in China which help address critical needs in that part of the world.
Looking at organic revenue growth by product category.
Recurring revenue which includes reagents consumables and service grew low single-digits in the quarter on a high single-digit organic growth comparison.
Organic revenue for our instrument component offerings was at mid-single-digits in the quarter.
From an end market perspective our Human Health business represented approximately 57% of reported revenue in the quarter.
We serve two end markets in Human Health: Diagnostics which represented 27% of reported revenue; and Research which represented 30% of reported revenue.
Organic revenue from our Diagnostics business increased high single-digits during the fourth quarter primarily driven by strength in our newborn screening and infectious disease solutions and our Medical Imaging offerings.
As we guided on our third quarter earnings call the Medical Imaging business returned to a mid-single-digit organic revenue growth in the quarter and we saw strong demand from key customers in the oncology diagnostics and industrial verticals.
Our Research business delivered low single-digit organic revenue growth from the fourth quarter versus the comparable period in 2012.
We experienced solid demand in our In Vivo Imaging Microfluidics and Radiometric Detection businesses which were notable standouts in the quarter with double-digit revenue growth.
Moving to our Environmental Health business which represented 43% of reported revenues in the fourth quarter we serve three end markets: laboratory services which represent 19% of reported revenue; environmental and safety which represented 17% of reported revenue; and industrial which represented 7% of reported revenue.
As I mentioned earlier organic revenue in our environmental health business grew low single-digit in the quarter grew 1% driven by continued strength in our lab services business.
Organic revenue from industrial end markets grew mid-single digit while environmental and safety revenue declined low single-digits.
Turning to our margin performance in the period.
Adjusted gross margins were 49% as compared to 48.8% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
We're beginning to realize savings related to the completion of our manufacturing consolidation and productivity initiatives driving improved gross margins in the quarter despite foreign currency headwinds and our continued investments primarily in software.
As a reminder investments in Spotfire's software are charged to gross margin as opposed R&amp;D and SG&amp;A and therefore negatively impacted adjusted gross margins throughout the year.
Adjusted operating margins in the fourth quarter were 19.2% as compared to 18.3% for the same period a year ago.
Restructuring efforts and recently completed productivity initiatives helped to drive profitability in the quarter.
By segment adjusted operating margins in our Human Health business increased approximately 100 basis points to 24.9% as compared to 23.9% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The increase was primarily a result of positive product mix and the completion of a number of productivity initiatives.
In our Environmental Health business adjusted operating margins increased approximately 60 basis points to 15.9% as compared to 15.3% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The increase was primarily the result of savings from our restructuring actions and operating expense controls.
GAAP operating income from continuing operations was $84.7 million in the fourth quarter of '13 versus an operating loss of $30.8 million in the same period a year ago.
GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of '13 were $0.58 compared to a loss of $0.14 in the fourth quarter of last year.
Recall that the fourth quarter of 2012 was negatively impacted by noncash charges related to pension mark-to-market and our trademark name rationalizations.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.73 in the fourth quarter of 2013 about $0.03 above the mid-point of our guidance range on higher sales volumes and a lower tax rate.
On a non-GAAP basis our adjusted tax rate for the quarter was approximately 18% versus our forecast of 21% a result of the shift in jurisdictional profits.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We finished the fourth quarter with approximately $930 million of debt and approximately $170 million of cash.
We exit the quarter with a debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.4x and a net debt to adjusted EBITDA of approximately 2x.
Looking at our cash flow performance.
Full year GAAP operating cash flow from continuing operations was $158 million as compared to $154 million in 2012.
Note that our 2013 full year cash flow results were negatively impacted by approximately $87 million of pension and royalty payments in addition to higher working capital related to productivity initiatives.
These payments are not expected to recur in 2014.
And given the completion of our productivity initiatives in 2013 we expect significantly higher operating cash flows for 2014.
As to 2014 guidance.
Going back to Rob's earlier remarks on our served markets and given the new products we expect to launch throughout the year we anticipate adjusted revenue for the full year to grow organically mid-single-digits or 4% to 6% with the full-year impact from foreign currency being minimal.
Given the timing of new product introductions we expect growth to be slightly higher the second half of 2014 but both halves should grow mid-single-digits organically.
Regarding adjusted operating margins the combination of the carryover productivity initiatives completed in 2013 of approximately 100 basis points and incremental margins on 2014 revenue growth will contribute approximately 160 to 180 basis points of adjusted operating margin expansion.
Partially mitigating this expansion are higher variable compensation and benefit cost due in part to a higher stock price and lower prior year payouts as well as higher growth investments in the back half of the year.
These costs in total are expected to negatively impact adjusting operating margins by approximately 30 to 40 basis points for the year.
And as a result we now expect operating margin expansion of at least 130 basis points for the full year 2014.
Interest and other expenses are expected to be approximately $43 million.
Our adjusted tax rate is expected to be 21%.
And our weighted average diluted share count is expected to be flat or approximately 113.3 million shares.
As a result we now expect full year earnings per share to be in the range of $2.40 to $2.45 representing mid- to high-teens earnings growth for the year.
Looking to the first quarter.
Revenues are expected to be in the range of $525 million to $535 million.
Adjusted earnings per share for the first quarter of this year are expected to be in the range of $0.42 to $0.44 which represents growth of 17% to 22% for the quarter.
The significant growth in EPS is a result of the impact of our prior year productivity initiatives but will be impacted by the aforementioned compensation headwinds currencies specifically the Japanese yen as well as the negative mix impact from lower informatics and medical imaging revenues.
This concludes my prepared remarks.
Operator at this time we'd like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Dan Brennan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Maybe to start off Andy and Rob as we think about 2014 and the margin expansion is significant that you're guiding to.
However just wondering is 18% now kind of off the table given some of the investments that you're looking to make in the back half of the year plus in the variable comp? Well I wouldn't say it's off the table.
I think what we're trying to do is we guide where we think is sort of realistic and achievable.
And I would think about it that if we see a little bit improvement on the top line and we get a little bit better mix I think there's a possibility we can get there.
But we don't think it's prudent to sort of guide to 18%.
And as Andy said we think we can get at least 130 basis points of margin expansion this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe on the environmental side.
It was a bit weaker than we expected human was stronger.
Maybe can you just talk to versus your own expectations maybe how did environmental come in and maybe anything on pacing in the quarter that might give us some visibility on how it's shaping up as you look in to kind of '14? Yes.
So I would say when we reflect back in 2013 and particularly in environmental as you know we had a lot of focus around improving our cost structure particularly on the manufacturing side and the back office.
And while I feel great about how we did relative to making all those moves from the standpoint of very minimal customer disruption I think in hindsight one of the areas we're probably impacted on was our ability to get innovation in the new products.
And we've talked a little bit about the delay that we've seen in new product introductions particularly in the back half of the year and I think it impacted our environmental business.
I mean clearly we spiked out the mass spec slipping a little bit.
And a couple of other products that we would have liked have seen get out in the latter part of the year and we didn't.
And I think that clearly impacted the growth rates.
I would say the good news is obviously all those activities are behind us.
And I think from a management disruption perspective we can now be singularly focused on driving growth and innovation in the marketplace.
So again looking back we're a little bit disappointed on the growth particularly on the instrument side.
I think service continue to do well.
But on the instrument side a little disappointing.
But as I mentioned in the remarks we're quite excited about both the market trends as well as some of the new products and capabilities we've got coming out in '14.
And that's why we're fairly confident forecasting a mid-single-digit growth for that business this year.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Schenkel with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So my first question is last quarter you mentioned some challenges in Southeast Asia and also some inspection-related delays that prompted you to take I believe about $10 million out of Q4 guidance.
I may be off a little bit with that number so please correct me if I'm wrong.
But I'm just curious how did that play out in Q4 and is there any related backlog to those dynamics that you would expect to be part of Q1? Right.
So I would say I think we sort of indicated something in the $5 million to $10 million range.
So I think $10 million was probably the upper range that we talked about.
I would say when we look back on '14 we clearly did not see the headwinds that we had expected.
So as Andy talked a little bit in his comments emerging markets continue to do well.
We grew double digits in emerging markets again.
So maybe a little bit of an impact but not significant.
And with regard to the government shutdown while we didn't get everything out that we expected it wasn't a material impact to us.
I would say relative to the $5 million to $10 million impact that we were concerned about we think it's probably in the $2 million to $3 million range to sort of what we didn't get out in Q4 and that sort of spills over Q1.
Okay.
And specific to Asia Pacific Southeast Asia we did actually see that return to modest growth in the quarter primarily from SEA [ph].
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then two of the more challenging areas for the company -- and I would say especially in the early part of 2013 were In Vivo and Medical Imaging.
The silver lining there as we look ahead to 2014 is that you have some favorable comps especially early in the year.
Could you just talk about how those businesses have been trending the past couple of quarters maybe from a sequential standpoint and how would you describe visibility on those businesses heading into the new year? So first of all let me take In Vivo and Imaging.
And as Andy mentioned that was solid double-digit growth in the fourth quarter.
So ever since Q1 we've seen a nice recovery in that business.
And in fact it's been accelerating on a sequential basis.
So actually if you look at that business for the whole year despite as you know a very significant decline in the first quarter we still grew mid-single-digits.
And looking forward we think the pipeline looks strong.
And clearly with the NIH budget going up a little bit and the certainty around funding being available we think that business should have a strong 2014.
Medical Imaging was a little different situation where obviously we knew going into '13 it was going to have some difficult comps.
And what we saw in the fourth quarter is Medical Imaging return to mid-single-digit growth.
So that was great to see.
As we go into '14 we've got a little bit of an issue in Q1 because of some ordering patterns.
So we expect Medical Imaging to actually be down a little bit in Q1.
But for the full year it'll probably be growing in the mid- to high-single digits.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Muken with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> This is Elizabeth Anderson in for Ross Muken.
I just had a question in terms of you can give us an update.
I know you've done a lot in terms of productivity enhancements in the past year and restructuring and sort out what your -- a little bit more color on what your plans are for those areas in 2014.
Well as I said in my prepared remarks we're entering 2014 with about 100 basis points of margin expansion.
It's a bit north of $20 million of cost.
Some of this is the annualization of some of the restructuring activities with the second quarter.
And we had completed the 3 major projects in '13 that we've been talking about over the last couple of years.
I think as we look into '14 we obviously have leverage off the incremental volume.
We also have a couple of the areas that we've talked about that we're just beginning work on which is really around our go-to-market strategy.
And I think there are some real opportunities there as well as our investment in indirect spend.
We have consolidated all of our purchasing onto one ERP system.
That affords us the ability to look across the corporation at our spend.
And our indirect spend is actually almost the equivalent of our direct spend.
So it's a fairly significant number north of $400 million.
And we believe that there's a lot of opportunity to consolidate vendors really drive pricing savings as well as better terms.
So not only should it help us on the bottom line but it should also help us in working capital.
So I think the combination of those with the volume leverage we feel like we have potentially some additional upside.
Those are the key areas we'll be focused on in '14.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Groberg with Macquarie.
So Rob I guess just starting off what's your expectation if you had to kind of lay it what's your expectation for just kind of your underlying market growth? And what are kind of the key things that you'll be watching? It sounded like you mentioned blood screening which I thought maybe would be more of a '15 event.
You think you'll see some of that in 2014 in China or maybe just highlight some of the things that you think can get you growing a little bit faster than the market.
Yes first of all I think you're right on the blood screening.
And I mentioned from the standpoint is we continue to see the traction in the market.
But I think you're going to see a significant ramp-up in '15.
And I think that's largely probably being driven by funding than it is market dynamics.
So I would say when I think about the overall markets on a weighted basis it's probably in the 3% to 3.5%.
And I think we should be able to drive 150 basis points to 200 basis points additional growth this year largely through our new product introductions.
And as we've talked about probably now for 4 or 5 quarters we have been making a number of investments in the businesses.
And we think '14 will be the year where you'll start to see some of that throughout the year.
I mentioned a couple that have come out now; you'll see a couple more in the second quarter and then 1 or 2 in the second half of the year.
But I think that's really going to be a significant contributor to our growth.
As markets sort of recover here and probably don't get back to a full mid-single-digit growth from an end market perspective until probably the latter or middle part of this year.
Okay that's helpful.
And Rob as you and Andy sat down and thought about this year obviously if I just go back and look in 2012 you had a lot of margin expansion.
You made some investments in '13 and then the market didn't grow as expected and so it didn't work out.
I'm just curious how you thought about maybe the next 3 years and kind of what your targets will be in terms of margin expansion and EPS growth.
If that's kind of -- is it at all involved in your thinking about how much you want to spend this year how much you want margins to expand this year? I mean I think what we talk about on a multiyear basis of revenue growth starting off sort of mid-single-digits and obviously trying to drive that up further.
Operating margin expansion in the sort of 75 basis points plus or minus range.
And I think if we can get 5% top line growth we should be able to grow the bottom line greater than 2x that.
So think about a 12% to 15% EPS growth off of a mid-single digit organic growth.
And as I mentioned in my prepared comments none of that employ considers any deployment of capital.
And clearly what we'd like to do is supplement that with anywhere in the sort of 2% to 4% of additional growth through business development or acquisition activity.
So again when we think about 2017 I'd like to be able to look back and say 8% compounded growth sort of call it mid-teens EPS growth.
And that would be comprised of 75 or so basis points of operating margin expansion.
Okay.
So just to be clear that would kind of be on average over the year.
Right.
So I was just curious if like this year let's say you do 150 basis points because you had a tough year last year right and then do you still see a path for expanding margins in 2015 or do you get kind of this lumpiness or choppiness to the...
No no.
I think we see a path every year.
Again with the revenue growth in mid-single-digits of getting a 75 basis point margin expansion.
I think if you go back prior to '13 what you saw was something more on average north of 100.
And I think that's because we were being a little bit more aggressive on the production side.
And while Andy talked about some of the other activities we're focusing on this year I think as we look forward we think 75 basis points per year is probably a better average.
But clearly we'll continue to get operating margins expansion going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Knight with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Did we see the full effect of the facility consolidation in the fourth quarter Rob? This is Andy.
But no we did not.
We'll see a full impact to that in the first quarter of this year.
There were still some carryover.
And really there's no carryover expense.
There is some remaining restructuring carryover that'll hit our cash flow that'll go through '14.
But from a profitability perspective and a return that'll hit in the first quarter of this year.
Research Division</strong> What are the major things you want to get done on the environmental side to get that margin a little higher? I think it's a couple of things.
First of all obviously getting these new products out into the marketplace because they'll bring higher margins with it.
I think when you look at our margin profile in Environmental we've talked about it in the past we've got to get more consumables or make consumables a higher percentage of our business.
So obviously changing the mix out a little bit.
And then as I also mentioned driving sort of the informatics and software capabilities that we have into that business as well.
And I think if we can do those things and obviously get the top line growth you'll see improved operating margin in that business.
Research Division</strong> And then last Rob I think all of us see a stacked up pipeline of diagnostic startups out there.
Are you getting approached more and more for companies trying to leverage your distribution channel? What are the dynamics happening there? Yes I think it's fair.
As I mentioned clearly there is an emphasis on earlier detection right? And so clearly our capabilities and our share in prenatal and newborn are very attractive.
And so we do get good looks particularly at some of the exciting new technologies.
Because in many instances and you're clearly see this on the NGS side that some of the early adopters will be in that portion of diagnostics.
Your next question comes from Amit Bhalla with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just dig into two things on the guidance.
I guess first on the instruments side.
Can you help us with what's the embedded instrument growth rates in guidance? And then just second on mass spec can you just help us with the supplier issues you've been having on the mass spec side? Just get us comfortable on the timing of the launch of new products there? Sure.
Within the guidance is an assumption of mid-single-digit growth.
It's also mid-single-digit growth on the services side as well.
And again a lot of that's driven by the new products we've talked about as well as just general market conditions.
Yes.
With regard to the mass spec I think we feel better about the supplier issues and so we continue to feel like it's a late Q1 early Q2 launch.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick follow-up on the first quarter guidance.
Andy can you just go through again the hit to EPS in the first quarter? Obviously the EPS was a little bit lower than we were expecting.
And I was hoping you can just break apart the -- quantify the hits.
Sure.
Well I talked about some items at the beginning -- or at the end of my prepared remarks rather -- and we had some compensation headwinds and some benefit funding that's really more first quarter specific.
Some of the competition headwinds will continue through the year.
That's a piece of it.
As you realize our comps in some cases is tied to the share price and the share price has gone up.
So that has created a headwind.
And in addition we had a lower payout in '13 than we are currently assuming in '14.
Currency for the year is minimal top and bottom but in the first quarter it's about $0.01 on the bottom line and it's specifically the Japanese yen.
We had very little expense in Japan to offset the revenue FX change.
And then really the third thing is the mix of income.
Because of customer ordering patterns med imaging as Rob mentioned will be softer in the first quarter as will informatics.
And that's the third piece I think.
All in those 3 pieces are about $0.04 to $0.05 of headwind on the quarter.
Your next question comes from line of Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So on the bio pharma spending comments you had early.
Can you just tell a little bit of color where you are part of portfolio you see the most benefit? And I'm just trying to get a better sense of how broad-based that is.
We've obviously seen some of that elsewhere in the sector.
And at the same time you're seeing drug companies with some renewed pipeline productivity.
So trying to figure out how much of this is really secular versus maybe one-time in nature? So if you look at Q4 specifically -- let me start there.
We saw it in Asia we saw it in Europe less so in the U.S.
We believe in Europe there was clearly a -- we got a benefit from some of the budget flush I think.
When we talked to customers there were some money available and I think they were spending that before the end of the year.
However when we look forward and talk to our customers I think the benefit we'll get going into '14 is clearly in the academic area.
And that will benefit obviously the imaging area and some of the more capital-intensive products that we sell.
And then I would say the other area clearly is in the informatics area.
We continue to see nice order growth there particularly in the fourth quarter we're strong.
And as Andy said while the first quarter will be a little slow we do expect strong growth coming out of informatics.
And a lot of that is going into the pharma markets.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just while you're talking to informatics maybe to expand on that a little bit.
We did see an acquisition of the one sort of independent publicly-traded company.
And at the same time you've seen some active M&amp;A with the other players in the NGS space.
So maybe if you could just walk us through at a very big picture.
You mentioned Spotfire but across the entire portfolio of assets put together here how do you guys look at your competitive advantage in informatics relative to some of these other companies who are now getting in? So I would say a couple of things.
First of all our approach in informatics is not to be necessarily focused on one type of technology or application and to be more sort of a platform.
And so if you think about Spotfire Spotfire is a visualization and analysis capability that ultimately we think will go into research it'll go into environmental it'll go into diagnostics.
So I think that's we believe advantageous for us.
And then obviously the other thing is because we have the underlying source of the data so whether it's detection whether it's informatics or whether it's some of our diagnostics screening tests I think that provide us a significant advantage to better understand what the customer is trying to do.
And again it's the interaction or the inter-connectivity of having the detection and imaging providing the informatics.
And also through some of our service capabilities understanding what our customers -- or the information and answers that our customers are trying to drive.
So again you're already seeing a lot more activity in this but I like our competitive advantages relative to the assets we have in informatics and also again the breadth of our capabilities.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
It's very helpful.
And then lastly if I could sneak one in with Andy on the deployment of capital.
You mentioned your guidance doesn't factor that in and you guys have obviously been pretty opportunistic on tuck-in M&amp;A over the last couple of years.
But can you maybe today refresh us on your rank order priority uses of cash between M&amp;A and maybe a small buyback? Just wondering why something like that wouldn't be on the table as well.
Yes.
I think right now we have said we're going to hold our share count flat.
I think obviously we have the opportunity to do something different.
We're still working with Moody's on our credit rating.
So we've been on the negative watch.
So hopefully that will get behind us at some point.
But I think M&amp;A is really our primary focus it will continue to be.
There's a number of what I would consider attractive bolt-on and tuck-in transaction really across the portfolio.
Maybe a few more in human health.
But I think that's really probably where you're going to see most of our capital deployment in '14 and actually in '15 as well.
Your next question comes from line of Dan Arias with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Rob any way you can help us with the contribution you expect from the Verinata collaboration for the year? Well I would say we -- as I said in the comments we're -- I would say long-term we feel good about NIPT right? And you can see the ramp-up in the coverage has been very good.
The real question is how quickly the payers and the payment occurs.
And one of the things that -- we look back even at our NTD business and the biochemical screening and it does take a couple of years for that test to ramp up and to beget a sustainable reimbursement rate.
So I think that's the question for us.
It's being adopted.
Its being sort of picked up by contract.
But I still think it's going to take a little while before you'll see consistent repeatable reimbursement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe on the newborn side.
What is the outlook for getting things going on the increases in the number of screening tests offered internationally? Do you think you can have some meaningful discussions there this year? And I guess when do you think you could start seeing those menus begin to expand? Yes I mean I think -- we're in those discussions now.
And I think I mentioned a couple of weeks ago that we've seen an increase in China now.
It's on average going from 2 to 4.
There's actually some provinces that are doing 6.
And we're actually in some discussions that are actually doing some things around mass spec.
So we're clearly seen in China.
I think in Europe we're quite excited.
We just got the skits test that we deployed in the U.S.
now CE marked.
So we're in discussions with a number of countries there.
So as we said in the past these things never go as fast as we would like.
But we are in a number of dialogues where we think we'll continue to see good movement on the menu expansion.
And hopefully we'll see some maybe step moves here in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I can sneak one more in just on the informatics effort.
To what extent do you think you can leverage OneSource as sort of a vehicle there to make an impact with the accounts that that business touches? I think OneSource is having and will continue to have an impact on that.
And one of the clear synergies that we saw with for example CambridgeSoft is they had relationships with some companies where we weren't as significant on the OneSource side and vice versa.
So I would say over the last year we've been averaging those.
I think we've got good synergies on that.
And now with the Asset Genius and a couple of other products that we've evolved from the informatics side I think we are seeing good traction.
And we have a number of customers now where we're in beta test with some interesting informatics capabilities that sort of supplement what we do or complement what we do on the OneSource side.
Your next question comes from line of Tycho Peterson with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So actually kicking off the last one on OneSource.
I mean we saw the Merck news.
Maybe just talk about visibility with that business and growth assumptions for this coming year in light of obviously some pipelines being rebuilt but obviously restructuring as well.
So first of all I would say OneSource continued to do well in the back half of '13 and had a good sort of mid-single-digit growth in the fourth quarter.
And so while clearly you see some of the large pharmas like Merck restructuring.
At the same time you're continuing to see other pharmaceutical companies recognize the benefits of outsourcing some of their noncore activities.
In addition even with our existing customers as we mentioned whether it's informatics or some of the other capabilities that we've developed we continue to win new business with existing customers.
So I think the combination of new customers starting to outsource more of their non-core work as well as getting more business with existing customers we still think OneSource can grow sort of mid- to maybe high single-digits in '14.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then obviously there's been a lot of focus on margins.
But on the flip side can you talk about where you're making incremental investments in '14 either channel-wise in terms of -- you mentioned a pathology system.
Do you need to do more there? And then conversely if you could talk on R&amp;D other priorities? At one point I think it was mentioned you can add an LC maybe to the ITT and how do you think about opportunities like that? Yes so I would say first of all from an R&amp;D perspective we want to continue to keep our R&amp;D at least at the same level as revenue as a percentage of revenue and maybe increase that a little bit.
There are some technologies that we're focusing on to sort of expand our capabilities particularly in the imaging area.
You mentioned pathology.
I think the exciting thing about the new product the scanner is it's being added to a growing range of what we would refer to as quantitative pathology solutions.
So we now have a reagent of protocols for staining.
We've got imaging instrumentation.
We've got analysis software.
So that's an area that we think will provide a nice growth.
As you point out we are investing in the channel there bringing in some additional capabilities there.
And I would say incrementally in some of the emerging markets we're looking to add sales and distribution capabilities.
So sort of at the next level now beyond the BRIC.
So South Africa Turkey some of the Middle East some of the areas of Eastern Europe.
So that's the area of where we're investing where we see nice opportunities to grow.
Research Division</strong> I guess along those lines you mentioned the China net opportunity obviously that's kind of 2015.
But can you maybe help us think about whether you need to make investments there what the size of that opportunity could be in the next couple of years.
And then are there similar nat-based [ph] testing opportunities beyond China that you're going after? So first of all in the China diagnostic area that's an area where we have been investing fairly significantly probably since the 2012 timeframe.
I think we now have over 100 engineers in our Diagnostic business based in China.
And so we'll continue to invest there.
I think the opportunity for blood screening longer-term could be quite significant probably in the $30 million to $40 million per year.
That may take a couple of years to ramp up.
But I think that's -- when you look at the amount of screening that's done in the U.S.
the potential for China is could be quite significant.
And then of course India I think is another area where we think we want to leverage what we're doing in China and move that into some of the other emerging markets.
Your next question comes from the line of Derik De Bruin with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So we haven't really talked about sort of what the Caliper business has done.
And I'm curious in terms of how the sample prep portion of it is done the automation portion of it.
And I guess have you thought about what sort of the role is for the Caliper and some of the next generation seamless workflows over the next couple of years as a number of other players are sort of entering the market or people that actually sell equipment are starting to launch their own prep systems.
So let me start off with the first question.
So if you look at Q4 specifically the Caliper businesses all did very well.
I mentioned In Vivo Microfluidics had a good quarter and the liquid handling portion associated with NGS.
I think they all were probably high single low double.
If you look at the year probably a little disappointing relative to the original model.
But I think a large reason for that is just because obviously when we bought Caliper we did not assume we were going to see the academic funding issues that we saw particularly in the first part or the first half of 2013.
But overall if you look at a couple of years I think we feel good about the returns and we feel good about the traction we're getting in the marketplace.
And probably most importantly the synergies that we've been able to drive by taking some of the Caliper products and combining it to what we've done historically at PerkinElmer.
So I think we feel good.
Going forward again the Microfluidics work we continue to move that into other applications.
So we've got an interesting product coming out probably a month that'll be more focused in the diagnostic area and to leverage what we do obviously in that area.
I mentioned the fact that In Vivo was strong and I think you're going to see a good pipeline in that in 2014.
And we continue to believe there's an opportunity in Next Gen sequencing sample prep at the sort of higher volume end.
And I think that's clearly where we see the opportunity continue to play and continue to work the synergies with that in our informatics back end.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It sounds like you're going to do -- whatever your M&amp;A strategy is a lot of is going to be focused on the Human Health side of the business.
And obviously the Human Health side of the business is where a lot more of a more robust growth opportunities are.
I guess does it make sense to sort of contemplate maybe divesting some of the Environmental Health businesses and maybe making it as a pure-play on Human Health? I guess I'm thinking about -- how do you think about strategy of the company going forward? So first of all I just want to say while I think Andy mentioned that there's sort of a bias in Human Health there are a number of opportunities we're looking in the Environmental Health area.
Because we think particularly in the area of let's say air monitoring and food there are some nice growth areas there.
And we think we've got some good capabilities to pursue those.
That's one.
The second thing is increasingly when we look at the core capabilities of PerkinElmer like informatics like imaging and some of the other things we do we see applicability both -- across both areas Environmental and Human Health.
So I would say unlikely that you would see a situation where we would split.
If anything we'd like to great greater synergies across the businesses.
So when you think about the new mass spec coming out that's going to have applicability in the environmental end markets but we ultimately would like to see that also going to the Human Health.
So the core capabilities around detection imaging and informatics has applicability across -- whether its research diagnostics and environmental.
And I think over time you're going to see us continue to leverage that and gets benefits from the broader market opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one housekeeping question.
Andy the $12.6 million other expense net item is that just debt extinguishment cost? It is.
It's a make-whole.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Dave Clair in for Bill.
Sorry I missed the first part of the call.
I'm not sure if you addressed this already.
But I was just curious if you could give us an update on Japan.
Are you seeing any impact from the stimulus over there? So Japan has continued to improve sequentially since the first quarter.
And I would say slight benefit.
We do you think in 2014 we'll see a more of an impact from that.
But Japan I think for the year is in the low to mid-single-digit growth.
And again given the difficult first quarter that was pretty good improvement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Andy thanks for the color on operating margin.
I was curious if you could talk about how you're looking at gross margin in 2014.
Well I think we've said all along that we feel like we can get almost an equivalent amount on the gross margin on the operating margin.
If you look at the initiatives that we had last year the move to Asia primarily Singapore and China was really to drive supply chain savings.
There are some labor arbitrage.
That we will see I think ramp over time as we build out the supply chain there.
So it's still early days.
So I think that the mix going into the year will be probably a little more skewed towards the SG&amp;A side than on the gross margin side but we should see improvement in both.
And I think that gross margin will start to ramp up as we start to really make progress on the product side.
Yes I mean the one thing we mentioned in gross margin and we spec this out in the prepared remarks is the investment in informatics goes into gross margin.
So while Andy talked about the productivity savings we're seeing and we do expect to see gross margin improvement in 2014.
That has a little bit of an offset as we continue to build-out and that will be an area of investment in informatics.
That does cause a little bit of an offset to what otherwise would be I think fairly significant gross margin expansion in '14.
That's right.
The accounting treatment does put it into cost of goods versus -- traditionally it would be put in R&amp;D or SG&amp;A.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Criscuolo with Mizuho.
Research Division</strong> Just filling in for Peter.
Did you see I guess toward the end of the quarter and maybe even the first couple of weeks of 2014 did you see any increase in U.S.
health care utilization rates? No.
I mean that'll be probably be difficult for us to see it based on the newborn or prenatal area.
But I would say no nothing that I would say would be significant.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then given the term -- while it's kind of happening right now in various emerging markets whether it be maybe in Europe or Southeast Asia.
Has that kind of changed your outlook in any ways or are you baking in any more risk in those markets in 2014? I think we're monitoring it.
But if we look at Q4 as I mentioned it continued to do well and the ordering pattern at least in the sort of pipeline and discussions with customers.
At least in the areas where we're focused which is fundamentally Environmental Health Care we're not seeing that.
But it is something we're keeping a watchful eye.
I think we mentioned in the prior call that obviously when you see the currency devaluations that you've seen in a number of these countries that the initial impact of that is products that are based fundamentally in dollars become significantly more expensive.
And we have seen a couple of countries obviously Turkey and et cetera that have taken fairly aggressive actions from interest rate to try and offset that.
But that is something we're keeping a careful eye on.
But I would say that up to this point we haven't seen anything that it indicates that its impacting our business directly.
Yes I think part of that is due to the product set the offering that we bring over there.
And if you think about diagnostics and environmental tools I mean those are kind of critical needs right now within emerging markets.
So as far as prioritization we feel a little better about their ability to prioritize that spend maybe versus others.
But we'll continue to monitor it.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Elliott with William (sic) [Robert] W Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at the free cash flow commentary.
Can you be more specific on what you're looking for in terms of free cash flow or cash flow from operations in 2014.
And then can you give us some color on the metric business? Could you update us on the size of that business and what you're seeing for growth there? Sure.
Why don't I take the first question and Rob will take the second question.
On free cash flow we always try to shoot for 100% of net income.
We've obviously made some investments as a part of our productivity initiatives and working capital as well as with some of our informatics.
And I think that has impacted our cash flow.
But I think those are behind us.
I think I said in my prepared remark we have about $87 million of cost in the year that we won't see next year.
So I think we're going to be in that solid 90% free cash flow to net income range.
In 2014 I think the difference will be our ability to generate more working capital improvement to get to 100%.
But we still have some restructuring that is a carryover from some of the productivity initiatives we had in '13 that will dampen that a bit.
But I think if you look at operating cash flow we talked about close to $160 million.
We're looking at closer to $300 million going into 2014 it's operating not for EBIT.
A fairly significant improvement year-over-year.
Let me just talk little bit about the Radiometric Detection business and the Radio Chemical business.
So the Radiometric Detection business actually had a good fourth quarter.
It's been fairly lumpy obviously we had some issues in the first quarter.
I think that's a business that can probably be flat to down slightly.
We continue to come out with -- in 2014 potentially a refresh of that product line and so we'll have some expectations.
The Radiochemical business continues to be down in the sort of mid-to high-single digits.
Again we've seen that slow down a little bit.
But our expectations for '14 that that will continue to be a headwind relative to the growth of the Research business.
Our final question comes from the line of Steve Willoughby with Cleveland Research.
Two quick questions for you.
First just a housekeeping.
Andy the Service business did you mention how much that grew in the quarter itself? Mid-single-digits.
I don't think I did mention it but it grew mid-single-digit.
Okay.
And then secondly I was just wondering if you can provide a bit more color within the diagnostic business both in the quarter and kind of looking to 2014 as it relates to growth in the newborn business versus growth in the Infectious Diseases.
Yes.
So both of them I think should have strong growth in 2014.
So if you look at the newborn business we're anticipating.
That's probably going to be in the high single-digit growth.
And it's fundamentally -- the couple of drivers that I mentioned about before we're going to -- we expect to see continued adoption in some of the countries and we expect to see menu expansion.
The other thing is if you look in China in 2013 births were down about 15%.
And what caused that phenomena is in 2012 you had the Year of the Dragon.
And in 2013 you had the year of the Snake.
And so what we expected is in China you'll see a rebound of births to a positive number.
And again that should be a contributor.
And then of course of the last aspect of it -- although we don't think it's going to be huge driver is obviously the relaxing of the one child policy in China will also be a contributor.
In the case of infectious disease that's a business that's consistently grown in the sort of high-teens to over 20% for us.
And we would say we think that's going to continue to be a strong grower.
It may moderate a little bit.
But I think it's still going to be something in the sort of mid- to high-teens growth for us.
That concludes our Q&amp;A.
I will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Rob Friel.
Please proceed sir.
Okay great.
Well first of all thank you for your questions.
So let me in closing just say we entered 2014 optimistic about our end markets and enthusiastic about our capabilities.
We look forward to leveraging opportunities this year to deliver differentiated value to both our customers and our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued interest in PerkinElmer and have a great evening.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good evening ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you all for joining.
Welcome to the First Quarter 2014 PerkinElmer Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lisa and I'll be your coordinator for today.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Following the prepared remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I'd now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tommy Thomas who is the Vice President of Investor Relations for opening remarks.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you.
Thanks Lisa.
Good afternoon and welcome to the PerkinElmer first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
With me on the call are Rob Friel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Andy Wilson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
If you have not received a copy of our earnings press release you may get one from the Investors section of our Web-site at www.perkinelmer.com.
Please note this call is being webcast live and will be archived on our Web-site until May 8 2014.
Before we begin we need to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor statements that we have outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings.
Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views only as of today.
We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements in the future even if our estimates change.
So you should not rely on any of today's forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date after today.
During this call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available as an attachment to our earnings press release.
To the extent we use non-GAAP financial measures during this call that are not reconciled to GAAP in that attachment we will provide reconciliations promptly.
I'm now pleased to introduce the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PerkinElmer Rob Friel.
Rob? Thanks Tommy.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
I'm pleased to report that PerkinElmer is off to a solid start in 2014 delivering strong performance in the first quarter.
Our financial results exceeded expectations with organic revenue growth of 5% strong operating cash flows a significant increase in operating margins and adjusted EPS growth of 28%.
We are benefiting from strong demand for our differentiated solutions and improving trends in many of our end markets compared to last year.
Productivity improvements we made in 2013 to simplify and strengthen our operational footprint an effective operational execution by the entire organization.
While Andy will discuss our end markets and Q1 results in detail I would like to highlight the progress we made during Q1 to improve our core capabilities of detection imaging informatics and service enabling us to grow our share in key end markets.
Turning first to imaging we launched the IVIS SpectrumBL which features a patented optical imaging technology and increases in vivo throughput in preclinical imaging for drug efficacy safety and toxicology.
We also jointly opened an in vivo imaging demo lab in Fudan University's Shanghai Medical College the first center of excellence in APAC with the ability to provide direct demonstration and training for preclinical animal models.
Researchers at the lab will use PerkinElmer's bio-imaging technologies to advance the understanding of biology and find improved alternatives for disease treatment.
In detection we broadened our leading prenatal and neonatal diagnostics offerings both in the U.S.
and in China including setting up additional lab in a lab testing for severe combined immunodeficiency syndrome where we embed a full-service operation and several PerkinElmer technicians directly into a customer's laboratory to screen new born samples using PerkinElmer's assets.
We also recently signed an agreement with the National Health and Family Planning Commission in China to be the exclusive partner in a three-year newborns training project to cover more than 600 rural communities and train more than 3 000 doctors and lab technicians.
This unique collaboration which employs PerkinElmer's detection technologies knowledge and infrastructure will not only grow our market share but more importantly help to save millions of lives.
Additionally we announced an exclusive partnership with Good Start Genetics to sell its GoodStart Select genetic carrier screen tests to our maternal fetal health customers in the United States.
This partnership further expands our prenatal menu and enables us to leverage an already strong market for us.
Also as a prime example of how we can deliver greater customer value through linking together our complementary capabilities we introduced the NexION 350 ICP-MS spec instrument and paired it with new workflow-based software called Syngistix.
This solution enables superior levels of nano material detection and is significantly faster than anything on the market making it ideal for single particle detection and for applications within the environmental food and pharma markets.
This product further demonstrates how the breadth of our product offerings can be brought to solve real issues facing our customers.
Turning to informatics a strong driver behind the business' growth in Q1 was our ability to further deploy our Spotfire data visualization software across our instruments platforms.
For example we won business with the Genome Institute of Singapore to provide a bundled solution consisting of our JANUS liquid handling technology EnSpire Plate Reader and Spotfire software.
This integrated solution will enable the efficient discovery of next-generation cancer therapeutics and personalized genomics.
We also launched Elements our first cloud-based scientific collaboration tool that will revolutionize how students and researchers collect and share data.
Early feedback from several beta users at large universities has been very positive.
We also continued our investments in mobile platforms with the INconX application for our Optima spectrometer which enables user to remotely monitor and control the operation and analysis from anywhere in the world.
In addition we added mobile capabilities to our OneSource offering to allow the scheduling and monitoring of service calls and access to a complete history of the service records through the use of an iPhone.
While innovating across our core capabilities is critical to accelerating growth so is providing an exceptional customer experience.
During the quarter we began to put together better processes to ensure that PerkinElmer is the easiest company to do business with in the industry from the time a customer purchases the product through installation.
Our renewed focus this year on improving the customer experience will generate even greater customer satisfaction and build long-term brand loyalty.
In closing it was a great to kickoff the year strong and build momentum heading into Q2.
Most of our end markets are experiencing improving trends with the remaining stable.
Diagnostics was strong reflecting our market leadership and the attractive segments we serve.
Solid mid single-digit growth in our research business reflects some recovering pharma and a continued uptake in our informatics offerings and the environmental business experienced robust service growth and strong interest in our upcoming new product launches.
Our focus on elevating differentiated innovations and serving our customers well will continue to fuel our growth and provide a competitive advantage for PerkinElmer.
Critical to this are our many employees located across the globe who in the first quarter not only executed well operationally to achieve revenue and margin expansion but also continued to drive our strategic priorities while remaining passionate about serving our customers.
Consequently I feel good about our ability to accomplish both our short-term goals and long-term objectives as we have an incredible opportunity to grow and innovate and most importantly make a difference.
I would now like to turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon everyone.
I'll provide some additional color on our end markets the financial summary of our first quarter results and details about our second quarter and full-year 2014 guidance and then we'll open up the call for your questions.
We are pleased with our performance in the first quarter.
Reported adjusted and organic revenues all increased by 5% with essentially no top line impact from acquisitions or foreign exchange.
Adjusted revenue for the quarter was $533 million as compared to $507 million in the first quarter of 2013.
By segment our organic revenue in Human Health grew approximately 6% while organic revenue in our Environmental Health business grew 4%.
Looking at our geographical results organic revenue increased mid-teens in Asia mid single digits in the Americas and flat in Europe due in part to the timing of shipments in the fourth quarter of last year.
We expect to see low to mid single-digit organic revenue growth in Europe for the full year driven in part by new product introductions and an improving economy.
In China organic revenue increased low double digits.
We continue to see positive demand trends in our key environmental and diagnostic offerings specifically our infectious disease newborn and prenatal screening as well as applied market applications focused on food air soil and water detection capabilities.
Looking at organic revenue growth by product category recurring revenue which includes reagents consumables and service grew high single digits in the quarter while organic revenue for our instrument and component offerings grew low single digits in the quarter.
From an end market perspective our Human Health business represented approximately 56% of reported revenue in the quarter and consist of diagnostics which represented 29% of reported revenue and research which represented 27% of reported revenue.
Organic revenue growth from our diagnostics business increased high single digits during the first quarter primarily driven by demand for our newborn screening and infectious disease solutions with particular strength in emerging markets.
Not only are birth rates beginning to rebound in China as evidenced by prenatal trends we saw in the first quarter but thereafter greater access to newborn screening in rural areas is also increasing.
Additionally we continue to gain share in infectious disease testing in China having won over 30 new Sym-Bio customers during the quarter.
Medical imaging was essentially flat in the period but an improvement from our guidance provided in January.
We continue to expect solid organic revenue growth for the year driven by emerging market investments in the healthcare infrastructure and the rising trend to advanced medical diagnostic x-ray capabilities.
Our research business delivered mid single-digit organic revenue growth in the first quarter versus the comparable period in 2013.
The pharma and biotech segment contributed to this performance and is in line to grow mid single digits for the year.
In academia and government the funding remained somewhat choppy in developed regions impacting CapEx decisions yet there are indications the market should rebound and lead to greater opportunities in the second half.
The tone coming from our customers is definitely more upbeat at this time than last year and we remain optimistic on the outlook for the year.
Moving to our Environmental Health business which represented 44% of reported revenue in the first quarter we serve three end markets laboratory services which represented 20% of reported revenue environmental safety which represented 16% of reported revenue and industrial which represented 8% of reported revenue.
As I mentioned earlier organic revenue in our Environmental Health business grew 4% in the quarter driven by continued strength in our services offering which was up low double digits.
On the product side of the business organic revenue was flat in the quarter as growth in Asia was offset by softness in the U.S.
while Europe was essentially flat.
We're excited about our new product pipeline which will ramp up in the second half and meet strengthening demand.
For the NexION [indiscernible] team aspect in particular we continue to see investment orders and expect to ship the first several instruments in the second quarter.
Turning to our margin performance in the period adjusted gross margins in the first quarter of 2014 were 46.8%.
A higher service revenue mix initial OneSource startup cost related to a number of new contracts in the quarter and FX headwinds negatively impacted gross margins by more than 100 basis points.
We expect moderate improvement in adjusted gross margins for the year as we launch our new products and as our revenue mix returns to a more normalized rate.
Adjusted operating margins in the first quarter were 14.7% as compared to 12.6% for the same period a year ago.
SG&amp;A and R&amp;D contributed approximately 116 and 120 basis points to our margin improvement respectively most of which is the result of prior year restructuring efforts as well as our shift of R&amp;D resources to China.
I would like to note that approximately half or 60 basis points of the year-over-year R&amp;D improvement is due in large parts to the timing of new hires into our R&amp;D center of excellence in Hopkinton.
Thus R&amp;D expense for the balance of the year will increase approximately $2.5 million per quarter.
The 2013 consolidation of R&amp;D facilities into Hopkinton along with the consolidation of shared service operations in Krakow Poland afford us the opportunity to more efficiently and effectively manage our SG&amp;A and R&amp;D spend going forward.
By segment adjusted operating margin in our Human Health business increased approximately 320 basis points to 21% as compared to 17.8% in the first quarter of 2013.
The increase was primarily a result of volume leverage prior year productivity initiatives and restructuring activities.
In our Environmental Health business adjusted operating margins expanded approximately 80 basis points to 11.2% as compared to 10.4% in the first quarter of 2013 due primarily to these same factors.
On a non-GAAP basis our adjusted tax rate for the quarter was approximately 22% versus our guidance of 21%.
Adjusted earnings per share was $0.46 in the first quarter of 2014 approximately $0.03 above the midpoint of our guidance range as higher sales and strong incremental margin flow-through more than offset a higher tax rate and incremental foreign currency headwinds that combined [maybe] (ph) impacting results by approximately $0.02 versus our guidance provided in January.
Turning to the balance sheet we finished the first quarter with approximately $930 million of debt and approximately $224 million of cash.
We exited the quarter with a debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.3 times and a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 1.7 times.
Looking at our first quarter of 2014 cash flow performance operating cash flow from continuing operations was $68 million.
Free cash flow defined as operating cash flow less capital expenditures was $62 million representing a free cash flow to adjusted net income conversion of 118%.
Looking to the second quarter of 2014 adjusted revenues are expected to be in the range of $565 million to $575 million.
Adjusted earnings per share for the second quarter this year are expected to be in the range of $0.57 to $0.59 which represents growth of 12% to 16% from prior year levels.
Assuming the midpoint of our second quarter guidance range adjusted earnings per share growth for the first half of 2014 are expected to grow approximately 20% as compared to the same period a year ago giving us greater conviction in our ability to meet or exceed our adjusted operating margin expansion guidance for the year.
For the full year 2014 we continue to expect our adjusted revenues to grow in the mid single-digit range so we are raising our adjusted earnings per share guidance range to $2.42 to $2.46 from our previously guided range of $2.40 to $2.45.
This concludes our prepared remarks and operator at this time we would like to open up the call to questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question is from the line of Doug Schenkel Cowen and Co.
Please go ahead.
This is actually Chris [indiscernible] in for Doug today.
So congrats on your quarter.
My first question is your incremental margin was strong this quarter and clearly the quarter came in ahead of expectations.
How should we think about the operating margin guidance in context of the solid quarter should we expect you to take advantage of the strong start and perhaps decelerate some investments? I think at this point we only have one quarter under our belt.
We feel good about it.
Some of it as I mentioned in my prepared remarks is related to the timing of some hiring in R&amp;D and some spend in the R&amp;D area.
So that will actually be a bit of a headwind in the second through the fourth quarters.
But I think we still – I think we have more conviction now that we can deliver possibly north of 130 basis points but I think it's still early days.
I think if we end up significantly outperforming in the first half we might look at some investment but I think at this point we feel good about where we are and I think we feel good about our margin expansion opportunity.
And so I think as we said in the prepared remarks I think we feel good about possibly exceeding the 130 but have made no decisions on spending anything [indiscernible].
Okay and just one more.
So OneSource and the pharmaceutical end market have been consistent areas of growth.
Given the recent [flurry of] (ph) pharmaceutical activity can you just give us an update on sort of what expected impact on your business would be? So as you mentioned we've seen strong growth in OneSource and I think the reason is because our customers are doing more outsourcing and we're seeing greater customer penetration and when you really think about it it makes sense for our customers it helps them to drive productivity.
When you think about the potential for further formal consolidation that really just more further supports this outsourcing model because when you think about it OneSource can be helpful in harmonizing practices or simplifying the supply chain.
So we think it probably continues to drive strong growth in OneSource.
Your next question is from the line of Dan Leonard of Leerink Bank.
Please go ahead.
Just wanted to talk a little bit more about gross margin.
I'm trying to think about how to balance the benefits of all the heavy lifting you did in manufacturing last year with sort of the secular trend that your service business is a faster grower than the corporate average and that's a lower margin business and you have done a couple of distribution relationships in the diagnostics side lately and perhaps those are lower margin.
So just in light of the gross margin result of the quarter I'm wondering if you could elaborate a bit more on the trajectory there.
I would say one other thing Dan I think as the new products start to come out in the second half of 2014 I think that will be a big contributor to expanding gross margins.
So I think you're right from the standpoint of one of the reasons you're seeing this service business outperform the product business right now is because we haven't seen a lot of the benefits in the new products [yet] (ph).
So I think with the benefits of the new products our expectation is you'll see stronger gross margin.
Okay thank you.
And my one follow-up I guess today is another example that the market is willing to pay for deals right now.
What can you comment on your M&amp;A pipeline and your ability to do transactions in 2014? As Andy mentioned another good quarter strong cash flow and so we're fairly active we've got a pretty full pipeline here.
So we're hopeful that we'll be able to get some deals done this year.
But again as we've talked about in the past probably nothing of significant size I think we'd be more comfortable in sort of bolt-on but hopefully we'll get a couple of [indiscernible] this year.
Got it thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Knight Janney Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Rob I know the software business and informatics was software specifically has been a long time in development.
Do you think you're finally there with Spotfire and surrounding technologies? Paul I think we've made good progress in Spotfire but I think we still see a significant opportunity continue to expand Spotfire with our instrument platform we introduced something fairly recently called Skystream which really helps pull data directly in this case plate readers right on the Spotfire without having to download data to a server and then subsequently upload it.
So there's a lot more work we can do in making Spotfire more applicable to our instruments and then of course building out Spotfire application in some other areas.
So good progress but I think we still see a pretty good runway to continue to build on our capabilities in informatics.
And Rob you're more optimistic sounding than most regarding China on these conference calls.
Is it because of the high diagnostics and environmental exposure I guess the tougher question is is private sector such a small part that you don't see that impact? I think it really speaks to where we are in the selective markets that we serve.
So when you talk about diagnostics we're obviously in and around newborn and prenatal and so we're getting the benefit of increasing growth.
Obviously we have nice share there.
And then I think we've got a great product offering in the infectious disease and so we're continuing to take share there.
So specifically on the diagnostics side we feel great about that.
On the environmental side there just continues to be more focus and emphasis on cleaning up the environment.
This is something that just came out recently.
I think it was either in the last day or two we're now putting a more difficult or more stringent penalties for environmental violations across the government so whether it's monetary or actually jail time.
And so I think you're going to see much more monitoring of environmental.
Of course that's driving some of our growth as well.
So I think potentially we're optimistic because of both the positions that we have in China as well as the markets we serve.
Okay.
And then lastly is big pharma specifically big pharma are they stable growing or what's your color there? I think they have stabilized and maybe even we're seeing a little bit more of an optimistic tone there.
If you look at our research business particularly the areas that we focused over the last 24 or 36 months in the areas of imaging and informatics and microfluidics all those areas actually grew double digit in the first quarter.
Our next question is from the line of Ross Muken of ISI Group.
Please go ahead.
So I wanted to dig in a little bit more on the gross margin line so in terms of the year-over-year comparable pull-through is that more a function just with some of the mix from last year given some of the disruptions you had maybe there was a higher software component or something because it seemed like the pull-through was a little less I would have expected given sort of the revenue outperformance? I think as Andy talked about we have a couple of dynamics going on in the quarter.
First of all at least looking at gross margin the service business has lower gross margins but have very good operating margins.
So with the service business growing sort of low double digits that's going to put pressure on gross margin.
The other thing is because we want to couple fairly significant OneSource contracts in the first quarter there is an upfront investment associated with those contracts often in the first couple of months that we win those and so we're making investments et cetera and of course that flows through gross margin.
I think another big component was I think it was sort of 30 or 40 basis points of impact from foreign exchange.
So we think when you sort of strip that out the sort of core actually expanded gross margins probably 60 70 basis points.
Okay that's helpful.
When we gave guidance and talked about the year and the fourth quarter we had indicated that we thought service and instruments were both going to grow about 5% but that mix shift as Rob said does have a significant impact.
And the investment that makes sense.
A lot of folks have kind of highlighted weather and days impact all sorts of messiness in the quarter.
It seems like your consumable recurring revenues were kind of strong.
I guess in your mind is that just a function again of some of the markets where you're seeing extra-normal growth or sort of non-U.S.
based? I'm just curious like the pacing in your consumable businesses and sort of the U.S.
versus ex-U.S.
did you see any sort of different month on month? Not really.
I mean it might had a minor impact but not anything of significance.
So I don't think I'd spike that.
The other thing to keep in mind is that a big part of our reagent revenue is the flow-through on newborn screening and babies are not impacted by weather.
I'm about to have one so hopefully not.
And then lastly sorry just to be quick I know we talked [indiscernible] where are we on sort of open the kind of buyback I mean the sale – you buys obviously are kind of running at a leveraged position where you have some flexibility and you haven't done a ton of deal work it's been a tough market for that in general up until recently.
How are you sort of thinking about kind of the trade-off right now with the stock between M&amp;A and share repo? So I think what we've said Ross is our preference is to try and do some of these deals to sort of build out our capabilities but it's a point that we don't see that as likely in the pipeline we probably get a little bit more aggressive on the stock buyback.
I would say the only other thing that's out there is we continue to be on sort of negative watch for Moody's and we'd sort of like to get that behind us but at some point that becomes less relevant.
The next question is from the line of Isaac Ro Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Just want to ask a question on academic spending.
We've obviously seen some expectations set by other management teams in this space that maybe first quarter was a little soft but hopefully will pick up as the year progresses so I'm wondering if you can share that sentiment number one and if so kind of what will be sort of the anecdotal items you could share if any to support that view? [indiscernible] struggling with reading the [indiscernible] on the academic picture at least in the U.S.
I probably agree with that.
I would say we didn't see it in the first quarter.
Clearly it was better than it was in Q1 of '13.
I would probably define it as – or describe it as more stable but I think in the discussion in the dialog with the customers it does seem like there is more of an advertiser spend.
I would say the pipeline we probably have the greatest visibilities in the in vivo area and there seems to be a pretty good pipeline there in the U.S.
And so in our sense it probably improves a little bit here in the back half of the year.
And actually on that product line [that wasn't] (ph) really what you had of in vivo imaging product line.
You had a bit of a challenge there first quarter last year.
Can you sort of talk about how that's doing year to date and maybe – what some of the key drivers are not only for that product but also the microfluidics business just sort of thinking about the rest of the instrumentation portfolio you guys got from Caliper mark-to-market on that? So I mentioned it briefly.
A couple of the areas that we've sort of really emphasized over the last couple of years actually we did see good growth in the first quarter so both microfluidics and the in vivo imaging grew greater than 10% or double digits.
So we are pleased with that.
If you look at in vivo specifically it was very strong in U.S.
not as strong in Europe.
And so that's the one area where we are seeing a little bit of weakness let's say specifically in vivo area and as well in Asia.
So overall double digits but a little bit of a weakness on the European side.
Microfluidics again we saw a nice growth there.
That was pretty much across the board geographically.
Our next question is from the line of Jon Groberg of Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Congratulations on a solid quarter.
So Rob can I actually – over the last call it 12 months or so you obviously made a deal with Verinata this quarter you did a deal with Good Start I'm just curious I mean you guys have your own genetics lab and sequencing lab you have other capabilities can you maybe just talk about how you evaluate some of these newer technologies and product offerings when to be just a distributor for a test and why not just offer the test yourself? I think there's obviously a number of factors that go into that.
One is how quickly the market will ramp up and probably more specifically how quickly the reimbursement will ramp up.
so there is a trade off there.
With some of these cases there is intellectual property that's involved.
I would say that's probably more the case in the non-invasive prenatal testing area.
So I would say it's a number of things we look at which is how quickly do you think this thing has become the market becomes sort of a contributor from a profitability perspective and our own internal capabilities and where we want to focus those.
So I would say that's what we think about.
And where are you today or when do you expect these to potentially be meaningful contributors to your top line relief? I think we have talked to a fair amount about the Verinata and the non-invasive prenatal area and I would say we continue to see a relatively slow ramp-up on the reimbursement.
That sort of continues to be a challenging area.
So we're not forecasting a significant impact for 2014 from that area.
I think contrast that a little differently with carrier screening because there you've got a fairly well-established medical policy pretty good reimbursement.
And that sort of fits well into our channel or call point.
So I think in that instance we would be say disappointed if we didn't see $5 million to $10 million of that in the back half.
Okay.
And then Andy can you just clarify I just want to make sure I understood what you were saying about R&amp;D again so I think they were supposed to increase $2.5 million I think you said per quarter but I was trying to make sure I understood exactly what you were saying and putting that in context like looks like your guidance for the second quarter is just a little bit light of the street although the revenues are in line so maybe just kind of talk to me a little bit about what you expect for margins in the second quarter? Specifically around R&amp;D we did a lot of work on consolidation which included quite a bit of R&amp;D consolidation into our [indiscernible] in Hopkinton.
As you can imagine as we shift that facility as we get to hire in the Hopkinton facility that takes time.
So there was a timing effect of that in the first quarter.
We hope to be fully hired in the second quarter.
The impact of those hires and related expenses is about $2.5 million and that's per quarter.
So the spend that you see this quarter will go up about $2.5 million each of the successive quarters this year and so that will obviously have a little bit of a headwind on the margins going forward but that's factored into our full-year outlook.
So just to be clear on that so on an absolute level it's going to go up $2.5 million and then kind of stay at that level for the next couple of quarters? Yes that's exactly right.
It's $2.5 million in the second quarter and it will be stable at that level in the third… Okay I think there was some confusion about going up $2.5 million every quarter okay.
And then what's your margin expectation for the second quarter your operating margin? We said 130 for the year but I think operating margin we think is pretty much in line with that.
Maybe – yes I would say in line with that.
Perhaps we're looking at a slightly faster ramp than we had guided in January.
Our next question is from the line of Peter Lawson Mizuho Securities.
Please go ahead.
Just back to the pharma consolidation question how do you see the benefit playing out do you see it as kind of an initial dip the first few months when consolidation is announced and then you kind of see long-term effect? I think you have to separate it between the service business and the product business.
I think what I mentioned before is really directed more on the service side with OneSource and historically what we've seen is almost growth right out of it because not only do we do the OneSource on the sort of maintenance and repair of instruments but we do summary location efforts and recalibration certification of the instruments.
So generally when there is consolidation the service business does better.
Contrast that with the product side of things and that's where we have seen sort of a temporary dip because what will happen or at least historically what has happened is when two large pharmaceutical companies come together they are sort of [appraising] (ph) almost of the purchasing and then it sort of sorts out and hopefully returns to some more normal level.
So I would say again based on history service can see a little bit of a bump and we probably see a little bit of a negative impact on the product side.
Thank you that's helpful.
On the diagnostic side is there any color you can give us around pricing and utilization trends you're seeing with diagnostics? First of all I would say PerkinElmer generally pricing was sort of flattish when you look across the corporation sort of depending on the business.
I would say in diagnostics it's probably a slight help but it wasn't significant.
Utilization for us is not that significant of a measure and because where we're focused on it is in the sort of newborn and prenatal areas and it's not as relevant on the [churn in] (ph) infectious disease area.
Our next question is from the line of Brandon Couillard of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Rob we've heard from a handful of companies about there being some slowness in the release of funds from government customers in China.
To what degree are you seeing any of that in your environmental business if at all? I wouldn't say that's – we haven't seen that or maybe we've seen a little bit but insignificant.
Understood.
And then Andy are you able to quantify the – of the $20 million of productivity and cost savings expected this year how much of that was captured in the first quarter? I think in the margin expansion we provided for the year if it was linear we would have captured certainly the 100 basis point the carryover.
There is somewhat of a ramp in the margins during the year because of some of the supply chain initiatives we have that will improve as the year goes on.
But I think of what we communicated we thought we could do we actually did that and a little bit better and that's after taking into account the R&amp;D upside we had.
Okay and then one more are you able to quantify the impact of the lower pension and royalty payments the benefit to operating cash flow from those and then how should we be thinking about the free cash flow conversion for the full year after a pretty good start? If you look at cash flow and the income statement or the statement of cash flows it's actually – operating cash flows are $68 million versus $11 million and essentially the difference between those is the pension which we talked about was about $47 million and the rest was a mixture but the majority of that was what was royalty.
So when we talked last year about adjusted operating cash flows we added those back.
Are you still there? Yes I'm good.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of Tycho Peterson JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
A follow-up on the commentary on prenatal screening.
I understand obviously some of the reimbursement [indiscernible] verified because obviously you've been talking about that moving [low-risk] (ph) can you maybe just talk about your thoughts on the trajectory of that business as it moves into [indiscernible] and how you might be able to benefit there? So I guess so our point of view on that is I mean we don't think that's going to happen in the short term but we think for the foreseeable future that is going to stay in high-risk and that you're not going to see a low risk for I would say a number of years.
Okay.
And then just as we think about the product portfolio… I want to say Tycho the way we think about [indiscernible] I think the growth is really coming from the replacement of [indiscernible].
I think that's really driving the adoption.
So I don't see it I guess in the short term here in the next couple of years really getting into the low risk [indiscernible].
Okay.
And then as we think about just kind of the suite of products you've introduced and obviously you had a busy year last year with these introductions any of these [indiscernible] the ability to move the needle more? Just trying to kind of rank order some of the introductions whether it's the NexION the AxION or the [iQT] (ph)? I think we'll first of all would say there's been a couple of introductions in the first quarter but I would say the more meaningful sort of needle moving [indiscernible] or probably really coming out more in the latter part of the second quarter here.
I would spike out the iQT I would also spike out the Opera Phenix which is a new high content imager.
And then probably getting into the third quarter you'll see a new suite of microfluidic products coming out that we have sort of branded touch.
So I would spike those three out of the significant contributors to our revenue growth.
And then Andy just one on the operational initiatives.
You've talked in the past about the premature [indiscernible] expense in the year.
Can you maybe just quantify what you think you can get from the direct spend initiatives and how much working cap [indiscernible]? We set the initial goal for this year of $10 million.
It actually – the leader of the indirect initiative reports directly.
I think we have made good progress.
I think we see our ways to hopefully that numbers if not more and I think this is going to be an ongoing initiative that will continue to help us both in the gross margin on the indirect side but as we do get in to expend there but for sure on the is SG&amp;A.
Our next question is from the line of Bill Quirk Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
First off can you elaborate on the comment you had [indiscernible] regarding the new [indiscernible] China contract maybe just help us frame that in terms of timing duration time? I don't think it's going to have a significant revenue impact in the short term.
I mean what I would think about that is it's – we're giving them some capabilities we're training them and I would in fact it's probably even in 2014 more of a cost than it is profit but I think when you look out two three years and we've done this in other situations as well we sort of plant some seeds and then we see probably revenue in '15 and beyond.
Okay got it.
And just staying on the topic first [indiscernible] changing geographies early diligence around sort of the [indiscernible] birth rates in two largest states in the U.S.
are continuing to be pretty positive.
So can you talk guys just as a category assuming that we see these trends continue kind of what that kind of translates into for the U.S.
franchise? Our data would suggest that if you look over the last 12 months the U.S.
is birth rates are expanding in sort of 1% to 1.5%.
And the way I would think about that is it's single millions of dollars for revenue for us.
Okay got it.
And then shifting gears last question here just thinking about the Caliper and microfluidic business and I guess specifically around the NGS [indiscernible] side we have certainly seen an increasing interest outside of the traditional areas of sequencing here really going back over a year now Rob can you just talk a little bit about how you look at that from a sales gain standpoint? Do you have to bring in some new hires to get back on some of these non-traditional accounts they deleverage the existing team just help us think a little bit of that.
When you think of non-traditional accounts you're thinking more into [indiscernible] and those types of areas is that trying to… Both [indiscernible] but then also certainly the interest within the clinical lab has been certainly for initially a lot of oncology applications for example? No I mean I think we feel right now that we've got a team that's sort of calling those accounts and so I think we don't see a big investment at this point in sort of expanding the front end there.
Our decision if demand starts to pick up we'll take a look at that but we think we've got the appropriate capabilities to be able to going to those accounts.
Our next question is from the line of Zarak Khursid of Wedbush Securities.
Please go ahead.
As we think about this Good Start strategy and in the event that NIPT starts to move into the average risk setting I'm just curious how you would characterize or quantify your ability to drive adoption within those plain vanilla [OB] (ph) practices out there? I know there's quite a few of them.
As I said before that sort of fits right into our sort of wheelhouse from a call point perspective.
So we've got I think very good distribution into those doctors.
And so I think that's the benefit of the collaboration.
We feel good about their test and their capabilities and technology and we think it's a strong combination with our distribution capabilities.
So before – well established medical policy I think it's good reimbursement so I think we're fairly optimistic on the adoption rate and to be a pretty good business for us.
How many reps do you have? About 40.
Got it great thanks.
And then just to follow-up on the lab services side of business anything happening to potentially leverage your business there into completely new areas of manufacturing or chemicals or anywhere else? I would say that the bigger focus is really sort of trying to build out the informatics side to allow us to sort of continue to expand what we're doing with existing customers.
I mean we continue to try and we've had for some time move OneSource into markets outside of pharma.
I would say up to this point we've had sort of limited success there.
So our focus has really been more on sort of building more businesses with our existing customers and I think we've seen some nice success with sort of lab IT offerings I talked a little bit in the prepared remarks about I think some mobility and mobile applications to what we're doing with OneSource and so that's probably been a more area of focus with [indiscernible] verses expanding into other end markets.
Our next question is from the line of Bryan Brokmeier Maxim Group.
Please go ahead.
You commented on the prepared remarks about the positive trend you're seeing and the birth rates in China.
Do you expect that strength to accelerate as we go further into the year? And also is the positive trend you're seeing largely due to the Chinese calendar or are you seeing any impacts from the one child policy that you're able to identify? So the answer to your first question is yes.
We think that continues to accelerate into the year and of course one of the advantages we have is being a significant player in prenatal we have some good insights to what happens in newborn.
I guess that's sort of I'd say synergies of the two businesses but we believe the trend is more driven by calendar than it is by changing the policy.
I mean it's a little hard to determine precisely but we had a pretty good sense that how should we turn to a much stronger growth rate because of the calendar.
And [indiscernible] the question about the one total policy is probably more anecdotal than statistical but we don't think that's having much of an impact.
Okay thanks.
And I don't know if I invested but did you provide the organic growth rate of the individual end markets in the Environmental Health business? We typically don't provide that level of detail but we did have some – in the prepared remarks I did talk about gross rates broadly.
I mean the way to think about it is service was strong product was basically flat and it was pretty much flat across most of the end markets I mean up down a little bit but fundamentally you're up a little bit or down a little bit but whether it is industrial environment or safety they are all around zero.
Our next question is from the line of Derik DeBruin Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
So you have a really interesting sort of aspect in the baby and women's healthcare I mean between you've got the newborn screening business the NTD lab you got the core blood business Signature or Verinata the Good Start relationship I guess are you trying to sort of round it out with doing like in pre-implementation generic screening and I guess Signature is done okay but I don't know how big a product that is I mean do you need to get even bigger in the cytogenetics market could you just talk about how you sort of want to build out the baby business? So we actually do some of the pre-implementation outside the U.S.
So sort of add that to your collection.
But yes I mean I think as we've talked about this before I mean the diagnostic business for us is sort of mixed alright and the way we think about it is at one level [indiscernible] we want to do a lot of things in and around whether you call it births or reproductive health whatever term you are using our view is we've got a nice position there and so we want to leverage that to continue to build that out and we've talked about at times even maybe going into early childhood with some screening analysis.
So I would say that's one.
And the other is infectious disease but largely focused in emerging markets and today that's mostly China.
So that's how we think about our business.
I guess you could go upstream and do partnership with the Harmony if you wanted to but that will be there.
So another question is in the software space for inspection sequencing.
You acquired [indiscernible] a couple of years ago.
I'm just wondering sort of how you look at the bio informatics market and how you want to sort of build out that? It's like does that become a bigger part are there more assets out there how do you see sort of coming into the bio informatics space and how are [indiscernible] products competing with that from Ingenuity and some of the other things that are out there? So I would say generally speaking we would like the bio informatics business to be a bigger part of PerkinElmer.
I think when we look at our capabilities it starts with detection and imaging but increasingly as those products get more and more sophisticated and generate more data it really gets to what do you do with that data.
So that's a big focus of ours and rather than say it in one specific area whether it is NGS or imaging or protein analysis we're really looking to do it across all those.
And so what we're trying to develop is more of a platform that allows you to take various pieces of data from various pieces of instrumentation and provide better information and analysis and makes then sequencing as a piece of that but it's only a component of what we think is a broader opportunity that being more sort of an informatics platform.
So more of a systems biology but it's integrated [indiscernible]? Yes.
Our next question is from the line of Jeff Elliott Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead.
My first question is on the revenue guidance.
I understand mid single digits you left that unchanged but [indiscernible] in the first quarter and then some of the new growth drivers that are coming on and looking at the commentary on end markets I guess can you help me square the guidance staying unchanged with all the different moving pieces there? It seems like that the guidance is pretty conservative.
Yes I would say that [indiscernible] single-digit but we came in at 5 in the first quarter so the mid-single digits probably a little bit better than we thought.
I think what we said was we would do 4 to 6 we thought the first half would be a little on the 4 side and the back half would be more on the 6 side we came in a little bit better.
But I guess to my perspective it's a little early to take up the revenue guidance.
So we'll see how Q2 comes in.
I would say we're sort of cautiously optimistic but I would say at this point it's a little early.
I mean there are a couple of headwinds out there that have this concern.
I mean while it's not a huge business for us the Russian currency is impacting our newborn and prenatal business there the Indian currency is having a little bit of an impact on it.
So we like to get a little bit more comfort around those types of things before we be prepared to sort of take the numbers up.
Got it.
And just to follow up on the incremental R&amp;D spend can you talk about what areas you're hiring in? What Andy was talking about is the fact that we took a number of facilities that were sort of desperate R&amp;Ds mostly in the U.S.
and consolidated them into Hopkinton.
So we sort of let engineers go in California Chicago and places like that and we're hiring them back in Hopkinton.
And so it's a number of the skill sets that we had previously.
We're just sort of replacing them so as more sort of a geographic split for us.
But I would say the emphasis is really around our imaging capabilities.
So even in vivo imaging the microfluidics capability is one that we sort of moved from the West Coast into Hopkinton and we're continuing to look for both chemists and biologists.
Our next question is from the line of Steve Willoughby Cleveland Research.
Please go ahead.
My apologies if you already talked about this but I was wondering regarding Japan I know a year ago that was one of the three areas that you called out as an area of weakness so theoretically [indiscernible] your comps there as well as like the tax changes that are happening [here] (ph).
So I was just wondering if you could if you haven't already talk about your performance in Japan and then I have a follow-up.
I would say Japan grew for us.
I wouldn't call it was robust.
It was sort of mid single digits.
So it was obviously a nice recovery relative to the first quarter of 2013.
But I would say with regard to the tax changes in April 1 I know some of the other companies talked about seeing some benefit for that.
I wouldn't say that was material for us but like I said sort of solid mid single growth for us in Japan.
Got you okay.
And then on the OneSource business I believe you mentioned you won some larger contracts more recently.
Just wondering if you could provide maybe a little bit more color around that and also are those companies that you won the contract from another competitor or that these are new companies that are finally consolidating their service? So I would say from a [indiscernible] standpoint although we don't get into our specific customers.
It was basically around it was a large pharma.
I would say in one instance it was a competitive bid that we won and in two other cases it was where we picked up additional business with existing customers and that's [indiscernible] trends you see where some of the customers will put us in a couple of sites and as we continue to do well they broaden it out.
Thank you for your question.
Ladies and gentlemen that's what we time for.
I'll now hand back to Mr.
Robert Friel for closing remarks.
Over to you.
Thank you.
Great.
First of all thank you for all your questions and so in closing let me just reinforce if I could we are confident in our long-term plans to accelerate growth and deliver strong financial returns.
We have a clear path forward and an outstanding team around the world that is committed to our mission of improving Human and Environmental Health.
Thank you for your continued interest in PerkinElmer and have a great evening.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2014 PerkinElmer Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Tony and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Tommy Thomas Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thanks Tony.
Good afternoon and welcome to the PerkinElmer Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
With me in the call are Rob Friel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Wilson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
If you have not received a copy of our earnings press release you may get one from the Investors section of our website at www.perkinelmer.com.
Please note that this call is being webcast live and will be archived on our website through August 14 2014.
Before we begin we need to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor statements that we have outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings.
Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views only as of today.
We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements in the future even if our estimates change.
So you should not rely on any of today's forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date after today.
During this call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available as an attachment to our earnings press release.
To the extent we use non-GAAP financial measures during this call that are not reconciled for the GAAP -- to GAAP in that attachment we will provide reconciliations promptly.
I am now pleased to introduce the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PerkinElmer Rob Friel.
Rob? Thanks Tommy.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
PerkinElmer once again achieved good performance in the second quarter.
We increased adjusted earnings per share by 16% expanded operating margins by 110 basis points and generated strong cash flow.
We grew organic revenue by 2% which was lower than our expectations going into the quarter largely due to several market headwinds we encountered which resulted in an overall slower growth environment than we anticipated.
Specifically our business in Asia was negatively impacted by timing-related issues in China and we experienced a weaker-than-expected global academic demand.
In addition to the solid financial performance in the quarter we continue to make progress on our key strategic priorities including the introduction of a number of innovative new products creating even greater customer value throughout our end markets.
Before Andy covers our second quarter financial results in more detail I would like to highlight some of our recent accomplishments in expanding our core capabilities of detection imaging and informatics.
In detection we launched several new technologies including the LabChip GX Touch which enhances the genomics research process through nucleic acid quantification; and the GXII Touch which provides better protein quantification to help accelerate biotherapeutic drug development.
We also debuted the EnSight Multimode Plate Reader the first of its kind to offer labeled and label-free detection together with well-imaging technology on a single benchtop system.
EnSight will enable researchers to generate more predictive results earlier in the drug discovery process.
During the second quarter we also launched Elm an evolution of our detection capabilities that leverages our expertise in environmental monitoring to help transform how air quality is understood.
Elm is an innovative air monitoring service that provides local real-time air quality analysis for individuals smart cities and sustainable communities opening up adjacent markets outside the lab.
Turning to imaging.
We were excited to announce our partnership with Sophie BioSciences to exclusively commercialize and sell benchtop PET X-Ray and 3-dimensional CT imaging systems.
PET imaging is an essential preclinical research tool for understanding biology of disease biological impact of drugs and clinical translation.
I would like to emphasize that clearly it's just -- it's not just the power of our discrete capability that differentiates PerkinElmer.
Rather as customer needs cross our markets and applications and as our portfolio expands with even more breakthrough innovations it is the intersection of our capabilities that will drive the greatest value.
Our recent announced partnership with Australia's Monash Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences is a prime example of how leveraging both our detection and imaging solutions can be the deciding factor behind a customer success.
The institute will establish Australia's first translational pharmaceutical science research lab using PerkinElmer's AxION iQT mass spec instrument our new EnSight Multimode Plate Reader and the JANUS workstation to support the development of new medicines and provide world-class training at the pharmaceutical sciences.
Additionally as we build up our informatics capabilities and bridge those across our entire product portfolio we were actively carving on new possibilities to offer customers unique value-added solutions for a variety of applications.
One of our latest informatics offerings for example is the High Content Profiler powered by our Spotfire visualization software.
It provides automated high throughput and high content data analysis in a single platform that can be combined with our instruments for better phenotypic screening and biological research and drug discovery.
So to recap the first half despite a slightly lower growth environment than we had originally forecast we feel good about where we are at this point in the year.
We delivered nearly 4% organic growth 160 basis points of margin expansion and EPS growth of 22% during the first half of 2014.
And we are on track to deliver on a robust list of new product launches.
As we look to the second half we are assuming that conditions within our markets will mostly remain unchanged.
And we remain confident in our ability to deliver our previous full year commitment of mid single-digit organic revenue growth and adjusted EPS of $2.42 to $2.46 which represents growth of 15% to 17% over 2013.
I would now like to turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon everyone.
As I've done in the past I'll provide some additional color on our end markets a financial summary of our second quarter results and details around our third quarter and full year 2014 guidance.
Then we'll open up the call for questions.
Reported revenues for the second quarter increased by 3% while adjusted and organic revenues both increased by 2% with essentially no top line impact from acquisitions or foreign exchange.
Adjusted revenues were $557 million as compared to $544 million in the second quarter of 2013.
By segment organic revenue in our Human Health business grew 1% while organic revenue in our Environmental Health business grew 2%.
Looking at our geographic results.
Organic revenue increased mid-single digits in the Americas low single digits in Asia and declined low single digits in Europe due largely to the timing of academic funding and a difficult prior year comparison.
In China organic revenue increased high single digits despite the deferral of a number of tenders in the quarter due to government funding delays resulting from state-mandated internal reorganizations.
From an end market perspective our Human Health business represented approximately 55% of reported revenue in the quarter with diagnostics representing 29% and research representing 26% of reported revenue.
Organic revenue growth from our diagnostics business increased high single digits during the second quarter driven primarily by strength in our newborn and prenatal screening and infectious disease testing solutions which continued to be in strong demand throughout emerging markets.
Birth rates continued to improve with a modest increase in the U.S.
and a rebound in China.
Once again we saw solid performance from our SYM-BIO business a leader in infectious disease testing in China as organic revenues grew mid-teens.
In Haoyuan our Chinese blood screening offering continued to garner a large share of tenders in the quarter and the business is now well positioned for the start of mandatory nucleic acid screening in 2015.
Medical imaging revenues grew organically high single digits in the period driven by growth in industrial applications as well as strong demand for our new wireless cassette detector used in diagnostic imaging and veterinary applications.
We continue to expect solid growth for the balance of the year as a result of emerging market investments in health care infrastructure and the increasing demand for our advanced medical diagnostics x-ray capabilities.
Our research business declined mid-single digits in the second quarter driven primarily by softness in academic end markets.
We believe the slower release of funding in first half of the year plus lighter capital spending in Europe will start to improve in the second half.
Moreover global pharma and biotech customers are progressively targeting their spend on large molecules and clinical analytics increasing demand for in vivo imaging as well as informatics capabilities for predictive modeling.
Moving to our Environmental Health business which represented 45% of reported revenue in the second quarter we served 3 end markets: Laboratory services which represented 27% of reported revenue; environmental which represented 17% of reported revenue; and industrial which represented 8% of reported revenue.
As I mentioned earlier organic revenue in our Environmental Health business grew 2% in the quarter driven by continued growth in our service offerings which grew to mid-single digit organically.
Organic revenue from industrial and environmental end markets was down modestly in the quarter but is expected to be improve as China demand strengthens and as our new product launches gain traction.
In addition we continue to see significant opportunities for our inorganic offerings as longer-term regulatory changes such as USP 232 for trace metal analysis and prescription drugs are broadly implemented.
On the new product front the AxION iQT mass spec began shipping in the latter part of the second quarter and demand for this innovative new mass spec continues to build.
Customer feedback has been very bullish and we will continue to focus on the commercial ramp of this product in the back half of 2014.
Demand also remained strong for our OneSource offerings as customers increasingly seek the right partner to help improve productivity in their lab.
Turning to our margin performance in the period.
Adjusted gross margins in the second quarter were 46.8%.
We expect moderate improvement for the balance of the year as new products gain more traction in the second half.
Adjusted operating margins in the second quarter were 16.8% as compared to 15.7% for the same period a year ago.
We continue to experience strong adjusted margin leverage in SG&amp;A and R&amp;D from prior restructuring efforts.
As a reminder from last quarter's call our R&amp;D spend is still expected to ramp higher albeit more modestly in the back half of '14 as we to continue to efficiently add resources into our center of excellence in Hopkinton.
By segment adjusted operating margin in our Human Health business increased approximately 150 basis points to 23% as compared to 21.5% in the second quarter of 2013.
The increase was primarily the result of sales mix prior year productivity initiatives and restructuring activities.
In our Environmental Health business adjusted operating margins expanded approximately 70 basis points to 13.2% as compared to 12.5% in the second quarter of last year.
The increase was primarily the result of savings from prior year restructuring activities and improved operating expense controls.
On a non-GAAP basis our adjusted tax rate for the quarter was approximately 21% and in line with our previous guidance.
Adjusted earnings per share was $0.59 in the second quarter of 2014 at the high end of our guidance range a result of strong margin realization on incremental revenues.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We finished the second quarter with approximately $895 million of debt and approximately $205 million of cash.
We exited the quarter with a debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.1x and a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 1.7x.
During the quarter we repurchased 750 000 shares of the company's stock for approximately $35 million.
Looking at our cash flow performance.
Operating cash flow from continuing operations was $54 million in the second quarter and $123 million for the first half of 2014.
I'm pleased to note that during the quarter Moody's update -- upgraded our debt rating to a Baa3 stable and we're now investment grade across all 3 agencies.
Looking back at the first half of 2014 results.
We are pleased with our organic revenue growth in a lower-growth environment strong adjusted earnings per share of 22% adjusted operating margin expansion of 160 basis points and very strong cash flow from operations.
Operationally it was a solid first half and we continue to feel confident in our ability to deliver in our full year commitments.
Looking to the third quarter of 2014.
Adjusted revenues are expected to be in the range of $545 million to $555 million.
Given our strong first half adjusted operating margin expansion performance we remain confident in our ability to deliver at least 130 basis points of adjusted operating margin expansion for the year.
Our share count and tax rate are expected to be consistent with the results in the second quarter and cash flow is expected to remain robust in the second half as we continue to better leverage our working capital.
In summary adjusted earnings per share for the third quarter of this year are expected to be in the range of $0.55 to $0.57.
For the full year 2014 we continue to expect our adjusted revenues to grow in the mid-single digit range and we are reiterating our adjusted earnings per share guidance of $2.42 to $2.46.
This concludes my prepared remarks.
Operator at this time we would like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Mr.
Ross Muken of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> This is Vijay in for Ross.
Maybe I'll start off with -- on the guidance part Andy.
So sort of -- if you do the math on what the implied number for fourth quarter is right based off the 3Q revenue guidance it implies high single digit organic in fourth quarter.
Sort of -- can you just walk us through what gives you the confidence on that back half ramp? Are you talking about the -- on the top line? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Actually the top line the way we've modeled the second half is essentially mid-single digit.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And maybe one follow-up on the -- your comments on the Chinese blood screening market pretty interesting.
Can you help us -- in trying to size that market what's the market opportunity? Who do you compete against? And sort of how do you feel about share price positioning from a pricing and a market share perspective? This is Rob.
I -- we would say right now it's probably about a $50 million market for molecular nucleic acid testing in China.
We think probably over the next couple of years that probably more than doubles with the significant pickup or improvement here in 2015.
Relative to competitors I would say right now relative to our market share we think we're probably #2 and we continue to win a number of tenders.
I think the one -- a disappointment has been -- is I think some of the funding has been delayed consistent with what I think we're seeing in some of the other areas in China.
But we do feel good about the opportunity to expand revenue fairly significantly in 2015.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Paul Knight of Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Bryan Kipp on behalf of Paul.
So I just want to start off on the top line I think or just kind of going back with the first questions in line with those.
In context to your commentary I mean I'm thinking about the European market I guess specifically to start.
What are you guys seeing there? And do you -- to get to that mid-single digit? What do you -- are you expecting kind of continuation of -- how it played out in the first quarter do you think -- or second quarter do you think it's going to accelerate from here? So I would say as we think about Europe in Q2 it was down 2%.
I think for the back half of the year we think we can get that to flat or maybe slightly positive.
And I think generally when you look at the back half what we believe will happen as I mentioned in my comments not a significant improvement from a market perspective.
But really what you're going to see is the impact of the new products start to really sort of drive more positive growth in both the geographies and the applications of markets.
The other thing I would say is clearly in Q2 we were impacted and we saw some slowing in China particularly with government tenders.
And the area that we saw a fairly significantly -- impact for us was in the food safety area.
As you may know there's been consolidation of testing labs in China the CDC the CIQ and the QTSB was initially to supposed to be consolidated in the SFDA.
That didn't go particularly well so it's now being consolidated into our new organization called the Market Supervisory Bureau.
I think as a result of those changes from the government perspective tenders has been delayed.
We do believe and we do assume in our forecast that you see that come back probably in the latter part of Q3 and clearly in Q4.
So we do think we'd see some release of those tenders in the back half of the year until China returns to a more normal demand pattern.
Because if you look in both environmental and the research area our China business was relatively flat.
And so we expect that to go back in the sort of high single low double digit growth area.
The diagnostic business was not really impacted by that and continue to see strong growth there.
So I would say that's one contributor to the back end growth.
But probably more importantly it's the new products getting traction.
And in Europe it probably goes from minus 2% to low single digits.
In the Americas which has been growing about 4% we think that probably stays about the same in the back half.
And the big change will be Asia with low single digits in the second quarter.
And we expect that to migrate more to sort of mid to high single digit in the back half which is even sort of down from what we've seen historically.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate it.
I guess a follow-up to that is the size of the tender deferral -- deferred tender in China can you put some additional context behind that maybe number-wise? And...
I would -- go ahead.
Research Division</strong> I was just going to say on the split on the core business for PerkinElmer relative to the new products kind of what your thought is on the back half growth whether it's a 50-50 split or kind of some color there as well would be helpful.
Okay great.
So with regard to the impact of the tender I would say that if you look at how our environmental business in China you can sort of break it up in the sort of 4 end markets.
You have the industrial you have the sort of air and water and soil you have the food and you have the pharma business.
The food business if you go back to Q2 '13 was 35% 40% of our business.
And that's the one that for us has been significantly impacted.
The environmental the air and water and the pharmaceutical and industrial was less impacted but we saw a fairly dramatic slowdown in that business again because of the tender delay.
I would say another impact on that business was that if you go back to Q2 '13 and clearly there was some tough comps because of the food scares that occurred in the first half of 2013 that was clearly factored into our guidance.
But I don't think the tender delays or at least the severity of the tender delays was impacted as much as we experienced.
With regard to the NP the new product impact in the second half we're saying that's probably going to be about 150 basis point improvement in growth just to calibrate so -- across all the businesses.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Greg Schenkel of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is actually Chris for Doug today.
So I just want to quickly talk about China again.
When did you start experiencing the China funding delays given that last quarter you know that it wasn't a big impact? So this was -- this seems a little bit surprising.
Yes.
I would say it was clearly -- as we've gone into the second quarter because we saw a good pipeline of orders.
But what was happening was they kept continuing to be pushed out.
And initially it was -- it will be pushed but we'll be able to do it within the quarter.
But as we got to probably the middle of the quarter we did see that it was just going to get to the crunch where that was going to be -- we were unable to do that.
Consequently we try and control a little bit of our costs and that's why you're seeing strong margin improvement in the quarter.
And we're able to still show good margin expansion and hit the top line of our guidance from an EPS perspective.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the global economic demand weakness.
So we haven't really heard this from many of your peers.
So I guess can you talk about the specific geographies that were impacted? I know you called out Europe but also called out global.
So I guess why was there seemingly a delta with your peers? Yes.
Well I guess I might take a little exception on that one.
I think we have heard so many other peers talk about academic weakness and clearly not academic strength because we've seen it pretty much across the board.
For example if you look at NIH right now the success of grants right now is at an all-time low.
It's at about 16% which is running about 50% below the historical trend.
If you go to China clearly China's slowing down funding in the research area.
Now we think that's going to start picking up a little bit here.
And we have not seen much release in Europe from the Horizon 2020.
So we think it's pretty pervasive across the entire globe.
And I guess from my read of some of the transcripts I think there was a number of competitors that pointed that out.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you could talk a little bit about what contribution from new products is baked into your guidance for the second half.
I just went through some of the recent transcripts and presentations and was trying to track down exactly what was in the pipe here.
I think you've identified a couple of them but it sounded like there was also maybe some other -- maybe -- or perhaps unannounced products in the back half.
I just want to kind of confirm that there's more products on the way and just wondering how much do you think they'll contribute.
We believe right now from a growth perspective it's -- it adds let's say at least 150 basis points.
So if you think about a little more than a billion in the back half sort of $1.2 billion that's approaching's $17 million $18 million maybe we'll do better than that.
But at least that's what's built into our forecast.
I would say if you go through the new products and I'll try and hit them relatively quickly.
I mentioned on the imaging side the Opera Phenix is -- will be shipping this quarter.
That EnSight Multimode Plate Readers that's shipping already.
The LabChip Touch that's shipping already.
We talked about the Hybrid torch which is in our Environmental area.
And we've got a number of collaborations that we've announced.
Sophie Bioscience brings our -- brings us PET imaging.
And then also in the informatics area we announced a new sort of collaboration internally with our High Content Screening business that we think will be -- will get some nice traction in the market.
And like I said that's already been introduced.
But just give you a sense of some of the stuff will be impacting the back half.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe just on the SG&amp;A side I think your other question about the expense leverage you got there.
It sounded like you were saying that wasn't really sustainable because it's obviously somewhat of a reaction to just sort of the bigger operating environment.
So I'm wondering if you can kind of give us a sense of what's reasonable on the operating leverage given the back half growth you're looking for.
Just want to make sure that we understand kind of the nature of -- what kind of operating leverage is fundamentally available versus what sort of short term? So I think if you look at the second quarter the operating -- or the incremental flow-through was close to 50%.
I think historically we've talked about 35% and depending on mix maybe it could be a little bit better than that.
We do feel like the new products will be better from a gross margin perspective.
And clearly when you look at the back half while we still expect to have let's say north of 100 basis point operating margin expansion in our forecast we anticipate taking R&amp;D up and start to fill those jobs as we talked about previously.
So I think in our forecast we're assuming that we'll take our operating expenses up but obviously doing it in a prudent manner that still allows us to have good flow-through and probably north of 100 basis point margin expansion.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Brandon Couillard of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Rob on the research business can you peel back the onion a little bit for us and give us some more color in terms of the modest decline there between the product categories or customer end markets? Yes.
So I would say first of all on the academic side that was down fairly significant for us as I sort of alluded to before.
We really saw across the board a pull back.
And then combined with sort of this tender issue that clearly impacted the -- our research business as well that was down sort of low double digits.
Pharma was flat and then what we saw in the informatics side was good growth in the analytics so the Spotfire and the visualization offerings we have there.
In the ELN area we saw some softness there.
And clearly what's happening is our customers are moving from client server-based applications to both web and cloud-based.
We mentioned last quarter that we introduced our Elements offering into the academic market it will probably take us another quarter or 2 to get that out into the pharmaceutical industry.
So we've got an issue right now where we've seeing an acceleration in the move away from client server and it will probably take us a couple of quarters to catch up to that.
And so that's having some impact on our research market as well.
But fundamentally difficult headwinds on the academic side pharma's sort of flattish and informatics sort of a tale of 2 cities with analytics doing well and ELN facing some headwinds.
Research Division</strong> And then Andy gross margins down about 40 bps in the first half of the year.
It sounds like you're looking for a nice improvement in the second half.
Can you quantify the effects of mix and currency in the second quarter and then kind of what you're discounting for the second half of the year? Yes.
We did have -- it was probably equally split between mix which is primarily a ship to service and rest was FX.
And that was primarily the move in the pound and the euro on our cost base.
So those combined were about half the miss.
I think we assumed going forward that we should see some sequential improvement in the third quarter and some year-over-year improvement in the half albeit modest probably because of that mix in service.
But we think that's going to tick up a bit because of the new products that should add some growth to the gross margin line on a year-for-year basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Dan Arias of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Rob or Andy the instrument business looks like it comes up against some favorable comps next quarter.
I think you guys are looking at down mid-singles if I remember correctly.
So I guess with that as a backdrop and given what you're seeing out there should we look for instruments to be up above the corporate average in 3Q? Or are some of the things you're seeing out there are going to have it more in lineage with PerkinElmer? Our forecast is for the corporate average to be mid-single.
And so my expectation is the environmental business will be there as well.
And so it will be hopefully a combination of service and instruments.
I would say right now service may be a tad higher and instruments may be a tad lower but we are expecting a nice rebound on the instrument business in the Environmental area which will be partly easier comps but also again some of the traction from the new products.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a high-level question on China following the growth questions.
Given the business mix that you have there what do you think the revenue split might be say a year from now just in terms of diagnostics versus core instrument consumables? Just trying to sort of understand the pacing of the business mix.
Based on Q2 the diagnostics grew significantly better.
Now I don't know that that's sort of a normal quarter for us.
But if you continued on that trend within a couple of quarters I don't know within a year but our diagnostic business could be probably close to the size of our Environmental business.
But I don't think that's the right trend because I do think our expectation is Environmental comes back and gets to sort of a high single low double digit growth in the back half and continuing to '15.
Diagnostics probably continues to grow high teens maybe low 20%.
So clearly there's going to be a bias towards the diagnostic revenue.
But I think if you go a year out I think the Environmental business it will still be greater than 50%.
But the diagnostics I think continues to have very attractive macro trends both on the infectious disease side with obviously the ramp up in the blood screening.
And then of course we continue to see strong growth in both newborn and prenatal side.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Jon Groberg of Macquarie.
Rob so maybe just digging in a little bit more or maybe I didn't hear it quite right.
But in Human Health I think overall you grew about 2% organically.
And I think you were saying high single digits in diagnostics and imaging and then the mid-single digit decline in academics.
Just wanted to...
Yes.
Mid-single digit decline in research and high-single digit growth in diagnostics and medical imaging that's correct.
But to your point the research decline was driven by the weakness in the academic markets.
Right.
I guess I mean it seems like from the mix of your business -- by the way I guess isn't the -- isn't your diagnostic business larger than your research business? No.
Actually they're pretty comparable in size.
Okay.
Maybe I misheard Andy in terms of the mix -- the split of the business.
And then on -- specifically on tenders in China can you maybe quantify a little bit more in terms of the impact of that just in the quarter and any numbers you can put around those? Well as we mentioned...
[indiscernible] As I mentioned it was largely felt in the area of our food safety business.
And as I mentioned if you go back to Q2 '13 that represented some 35% or 40% of our business.
That was down year-over-year over 20%.
Now some of that we knew because of the spike we had last year.
But clearly a lot of that was a delay in tenders.
So call it 35% of our Environmental business was impacted by the delay in tenders.
And given what's going on in China still it seems like a little bit of a mixed bag from listening to everybody.
You're expecting that to go from -- you grew high single digits this quarter to going back to growing kind of high double in the second half of the year.
Is that correct? Yes.
I would say high teens is what we've experienced.
And of course a big driver of that is diagnostics.
Diagnostics continued to do very well in the second quarter.
They grew north of 20%.
So our expectation is diagnostics continues on as it has been.
And what we'll see is we'll see both the Environmental and the research business return to sort of mid to single-digit growth.
If that occurs then the overall China business will get more into mid to high teens.
Okay.
And then sorry lastly on the -- your leverage levels are back down.
You bought a little bit more stock this quarter.
But I guess what are you thinking from an M&amp;A perspective over the next 12 months or so? I think we're really looking at capital deployment similar to the way we've looked at it in the past.
I think first preference would be acquisitions.
I think we -- right now we've talked about our leverage.
We'd probably to get to the mid-2s have $300 million to $400 million of powder.
And I think our first priority would be to bring in some acquisitions.
Absent that I think we would look at buybacks.
And the third is the dividend and we continue to review that each quarter.
But I think that would probably be the order I would prioritize them.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Zarak Khurshid of Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned prenatal earlier on the call as a source of strength.
Were you referring to NIPT or serum screening? And generally could you tell us what's going on with the Verinata relationship? We saw that they inked a deal with Progenity.
What does that mean for you guys in the marketplace? So first of all when I was referring to the prenatal strength it was -- for us it was really outside the U.S.
And while we saw strength in Europe we saw good strength in the emerging markets mostly China.
So our strength is really coming sort of outside the U.S.
from a prenatal perspective.
I think with the Verinata relationship I think it's similar to what we've said in the past where we are seeing good sort of uptake of the test.
But the reimbursement or more specifically getting paid cash continues to move in the right direction but it's slow.
And so I would say for us NIPT is -- continues to be somewhat immaterial from a revenue perspective and our expectation is that probably continues through the majority of the remainder of the year.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe another one on women's health.
How are things going with the Good Start collaboration? So we're now distributing that and it was I mean -- I would say it's early days.
But I would say the thing that sort of excites me about that is it allows us to really have a complete offering in the whole area of prenatal health.
So obviously with our NTD biochemical screen with the NIPT we referenced before and now we're now bringing in the carrier screening from Good Start we really -- as we have our discussions with our doctors and it fits very well with our channel.
It gives us that holistic offering.
And so I think that's really important for us.
Early days and we'll just see how it does in the latter part of the year.
But like I said we're -- it's in our channel and we're starting to sell.
Research Division</strong> Sounds good.
One last one for me just on the SYM-BIO business sounds like the strength -- there's continued strength there.
Could you just talk about what do you think the potential opportunity or the total opportunity there is? And what inning do you think we're in today for that business? So I think we're early days.
I think there's a significant opportunity when you look at -- first of all the growth in the middle class in China over next couple of years is going to put tremendous pressure on health care system within China.
And so our ability to provide at a very good cost and a very good quality infectious-disease testing and now adding on to that the ability to do blood screening.
We think this is a business which today call it $50 million over the next couple of years could be well north of $150 million $200 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Derik De Bruin of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So just I keep -- hate -- I hate to keep beating on this just on the terrific confidence in the back half ramp can you give us some sort of like backlog number? To just give a sense of what you've already -- so feel confident that you booked for the back half? Yes.
I would say the backlog we haven't sort given historically.
Not that we couldn't give it I just -- it hasn't been as meaningful a number because a good portion of our business is really bookings shipped.
So I guess what I would say is if you look at orders through the month of July we're up high single digits.
So I think that gives us the confidence that we do expect to see a pretty good ramp here in both Q3 and hopefully into Q4.
I would say that fact -- and I would say and the other thing is we are seeing good receptivity to almost all of the new products that are out there.
So I think the combination of that combined with what we saw was pretty good order strength during the month of July it gives us the confidence to reiterate the guidance for the year and talk about getting back to mid-single digit top line growth for Q3 and Q4.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
On the imaging business I'm talking about the in vivo imaging I know there's starting to be some more competitors in that market.
And I know there's some patents that are rolling off from some of the Caliper products.
I guess can you talk about how that in vivo end market is sort of -- your expectations for that sort of going forward and sort of how that is? And I guess this sort of leads into the question about -- if you sort of -- we haven't heard about some of the other aspects of the old Caliper business in terms of some of the automation platform that's been added.
So just I think sort of what's going on with that business and the various segments would be helpful.
Yes.
Obviously first of all the expectation for the in vivo imaging business is -- continues to be high single digits.
In fact if you look at the U.S.
it had very nice growth in the U.S.
but had some significant headwinds outside.
Again we think that's unique to Q2 and as I mentioned some other research headwinds or academic headwinds that we face.
But I think we continue to feel good about high single digit growth.
I think the opportunity is to take this business and particularly some of the other imaging capabilities that we've got from Caliper and move them into some adjacent markets.
And the one that we're fairly excited about is we think some of competencies from Caliper combined with some of the things we historically had at PerkinElmer can give us a nice offering into the quantitative pathology market.
And so I think when we look at the opportunity to broaden out the applicability of our imaging capabilities we feel very good about single -- high single digit growth and maybe even getting into the low double digit.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Andy could you just sort of go over the gross margin again over the quarter? I know last quarter it was down about 100 bps because of the FX headwinds impacts.
So what is it -- was it sort of like just the lower volumes that was the impact in the gross margin this quarter? Well there are really 2 pieces in the lower volume obviously has some impact.
But it was primarily FX and as I mentioned it was the euro and the pound.
And the other piece was a mix within the portfolio with the higher percentage of service and the instruments versus prior year.
And as I also indicated we think that will improve in the second half just given new product introductions and given some strength we think we see in the order rates on instruments as we go into the third quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Bill Quirk of Piper Jaffray.
This is Alex Novak [ph] on for Bill.
I was wondering if we could get an update on how the China newborn screening is going.
Well I think we continue to see nice growth in China on our newborn.
With regards to the rollout are you talking about our collaboration with the western provinces? And I would say that continues to go well.
It's on track.
And well as I think we mentioned in the past that probably doesn't have a dramatic financial impact in '14.
It really seeds the market for continued growth as we get into '15 and later years.
But it continues to go well.
And as I said we continue to see very good growth in traction within the newborn business.
I would say emerging markets broadly but specifically in China.
Okay great.
And then staying on newborn there was a Wall Street Journal article this morning on the impact of stem cells for treating SCIDs.
And how the -- and how more states might be pressured into including their test for the newborn screening requirements.
What are your kind of -- what are your thoughts on this? And what have been the conversations with states that are not currently offering the test? So one of the challenges with SCIDs has been -- there's -- we do not -- we have not received FDA approval yet for our tests.
It is in with the FDA.
And as I'm sure everyone on the phone knows that's a little bit hard to predict.
And so our response has been because obviously this is a critical need from a health care perspective is -- and we've been setting up what we call labs in a lab.
And so in a number of states we actually go in PerkinElmer employees and do the testing within the labs.
And we've had good success there but it's limited the ability for the states to do SCIDs testing.
So one of the hopes is that as more and more of these articles come out maybe has some impact on accelerating the approval of our FDA kit or kit for SCIDs.
But again the way we're trying to deal with this is that for our people in the labs to continue to sort of permit or allow the testing of this incredibly debilitating disease that there's a cure for as you pointed out.
And we want to be able to have as many children as possible have the opportunity to be tested for it.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Tycho Peterson of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups to questions that were asked earlier.
Derik's asked a question about imaging commenting a little about the medical imaging business.
I mean is there a chance you could see some acceleration there? It's been a tough business for a while.
But with the work you're doing in PET and CT do you potentially expect that to pick up a bit? Yes.
I think it was a possibility as we sort of mentioned before is we continue to look at sort of adjacencies of where we can take our competencies and our capabilities.
So I wouldn't be surprised to see improved growth in those areas.
Research Division</strong> And then on China I mean you've had a ton of questions on it.
But are you baking anything in for the net tender in terms of stocking ahead of mandated testing in '15? No not significantly.
Like I said I mean the one area that's been a little disappointing there is the funding for that has been so much delayed the Chinese government.
And so maybe there'll be this sort of big ramp-up in the last 5 or 6 months but we're not baking that into our forecast.
Research Division</strong> And then how big an opportunity do you think that could be in '15 for you guys though once they do migrate to net? It probably goes in '15.
It's probably a $10 million to $15 million opportunity for us.
Today at most single millions so it's...
Research Division</strong> And then I know you had a question earlier on M&amp;A and just thinking a little bit about the landscape can you maybe talk about your appetite for larger deals? I mean you've largely focused on bolt-ons.
But how do you think about potentially doing some [indiscernible] Yes.
I think we'll continue to focus on those deals.
I mean I think that they reduce the level of disruption to the business.
And so I think our focus to a large extent has been on I would say smaller deals.
As I think I've mentioned in the past I would like the average size of our deal to go up.
I think if you look over the last couple of years our deals have been sort of sub-100 from a value perspective.
I'd like to get them up a little bit more meaningful from a revenue and an OP impact perspective.
But I still think that's going to be the major focus of our efforts.
Research Division</strong> So what's the maximum leverage you think you'd be willing to take on? Well I don't know that I ever wanted to set a maximum.
I mean if you look at the Caliper deal that put us in the sort of mid-3s.
And so we went to that because we felt pretty confident that we could get back to the mid-2s in a relatively short period of time which we were able to do.
So I mean I don't know Andy if there's a different view but I...
Our comfort is in the mid-2s.
We would lever up if we saw an ability to bring that down quickly.
But I would say it just kind of would be event specific.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Jeff Elliott of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Most of my -- have been asked already but -- so I'll just ask one here on the Elm product.
Can you talk about your ability to monetize that product and perhaps expand that into other adjacent markets? So I think those are the things we're in discussion right now with some of the cities and some of the other communities.
And so I think when you talk about when we launched it this is an exciting product.
It got some interesting capabilities and technologies.
And from a financial perspective while we don't think there's going to be significant impact in '14 I think as we get into '15 we hope to see some revenue that as we have a have a better perspective on whether this is a sort of subscription model whether we're selling data so on and so forth.
So I think that's still to be worked out and it may vary a little bit by the individual customer.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then could we just get an update on pricing what you're seeing across the portfolio? I would say it varies a little bit by business.
But I think for -- if you look the company in total it's probably even relatively flat relative to the impact on gross margins.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Eric Criscuolo of Mizuho.
Research Division</strong> So just on the -- it looks like there was about a $15 million delta between your results and your 2Q guidance for the top line.
And I know you said that there was the basically the China timing issue and the academic weakness.
Could you maybe quantify or put a percentage on which -- how much came from each basket of the miss? Yes.
So I would say first of all I mean as we sort of reconciled to let's say the midpoint of the guidance there's a couple of million dollars that were associated with signature that one ended discontinued.
Not that there was a big number but just sort of to help reconcile.
And then as we think about it we think there's probably about a $7 million to $8 million impact from China and probably about a $4 million to $5 million impact from the research slowdown attributable to the academic.
So that's how we would sort of quantify the impact of the 2 items that I talked about.
Research Division</strong> Great that's really helpful.
And on the academic environment could you just tease out by geography North America Europe Asia how those 3 segments did this quarter? The 3 geographic segments by academic? Research Division</strong> Yes just academia.
Yes I would say clearly Europe was down fairly significantly.
And again one of the things when you look at these numbers is it's also taking into consideration sort of comps year-over-year.
And so Europe and the research the academic market was very strong in Q2.
That was driven by some in vivo imaging placement.
So it's a little bit distorted when you start to go down by segment by region because of the comps.
But what you see is U.S.
was sort of positive Europe was down significantly and APAC was down largely driven by softness in China.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just lastly as you went through the quarter did you start to see signs that the academic trends were improving in those geographies? I would say that we -- as we went through the quarter not as much.
But as we're now into the third quarter we are starting to see some improvement in the trends.
And I think that's all factored into the sort of 8% growth in orders that we saw through July.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Steve Willoughby of Cleveland Research.
The first one is just a follow-up to the last question as it relates to the improved orders you've seen so far here in the third quarter.
I was just wondering what's driving the improvement versus what you saw in the second quarter.
It sounds like maybe academia is getting a little bit better.
Have you seen any of the orders in China have come through yet if you could just maybe talk about that [indiscernible]? Yes.
I would say it's 3 things.
I think we are seeing a little bit of improvement in China we're seeing some improvement on the research side and we're seeing the new products.
And I think the combination of those 3 which is really I think the basis for call it just under 4% in the first half to something in the sort of 5% to 6% in the back half.
Okay got you.
And then just secondly SG&amp;A I understand obviously the quarter is a little bit slower from the top line.
You pulled back a little bit it sounds like on operating expenses.
As we think about SG&amp;A in dollars or in the back half of the year I would suspect that it would probably be up a bit from what you spent $137 million or so you spent this quarter.
But how much of a step up-up are you expecting in the back half of the year with regards to SG&amp;A? Yes.
It will step for -- in total SG&amp;A for -- really a key reason is in the second half we're going to be lapping with first probably have some additional spend because we're in R&amp;D.
But if you just look at SG&amp;A by itself we had some restructuring that took place in the second quarter last year and we're -- we'll be lapping that in the second half of this year.
And so there will be some headwinds there.
So and it will be an increase in the percentage.
But it won't be a dramatic increase in dollars.
Okay.
And then just the final thing is can you guys kind of go through what your thinking is on share repurchases about $35 million this quarter? A couple of quarters before that you hadn't been buying any.
So just how do you think about the timing of your share repurchases? Well I think what we said at the beginning of this year and I think what is consistent is at the minimum we said we wanted to keep our share count flat for the year.
And I think that still holds true.
I think if we look at the opportunities on the M&amp;A side I think that will then help us decide what we want to do on the buyback side.
But again as I mentioned before I think our first priority is to bring in some acquisitions that can add some profit and the second would be the share buyback.
So -- but we'll be looking at that constantly as we go through the second half of this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Paul Knight of Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up.
On the Hopkinton facility I know you guys kind of talked about the step-up in costs.
I think you alluded to in the past $2.5 million in incremental costs associated with new hires.
How far along are we in that? And did you step back in 2Q and expect to ramp in 3Q and 4Q? Well there's a couple of factors Paul.
This is Andy.
One is I think the savings we're getting from some of the overhead is a little better than we thought and we're -- the number of people we're hiring is a little less than we thought.
I think we've done a nice job of efficiently building out Hopkinton.
But I think what you'll see is from the second quarter the third quarter will step up a little over $1 million and then another $1 million on top of that in the fourth quarter.
So the second half is going to be north of $4 million higher than the first half.
And I'm sorry it's Bryan not Paul.
There are no further questions in the queue.
I would now like to turn the conference back over for closing remarks.
Okay.
First of all thank you for your questions.
And just in closing I want to reiterate that we feel very good about our progress to date and believe we have good traction towards accelerating our growth while creating differentiated value for our shareholders customers and employees.
Thank you for your continued interest in PerkinElmer.
Have a great evening.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference call.
Thank you so much for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 PerkinElmer Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Sarah and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Tom Thomas Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Sarah.
Good afternoon and welcome to the PerkinElmer's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
With me on the call are Rob Friel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Wilson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
If you have not received a copy of our earnings press release you may get one from the Investors section of our website at www.perkinelmer.com.
Please note that this call is being webcast live and will be archived on our website until November 13 2014.
Before we begin we need to remind everyone of the safe harbor statements that we have outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings.
Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views only as of today.
We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements in the future even if our estimates change.
So you should not rely on any of today's forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date after today.
During this call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is available as an attachment to our earnings press release.
To the extent we use non-GAAP financial measures during this call that are not reconciled to GAAP in that attachment we'll provide reconciliations promptly.
I'm pleased to introduce the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PerkinElmer Rob Friel.
Rob? Thanks Tommy.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
I'm pleased to report that we had a strong quarter.
We grew organic revenue by 4% expanded adjusted operating margins by 110 basis points achieved good operating cash flow increased adjusted earnings per share by 14% to $0.57 coming in at the high end of our guidance.
As Andy will discuss the Q3 financial results in greater detail I would like to mention a few highlights from the quarter and comment on trends currently impacting our end markets.
In the quarter we continue to grow market share and further strengthen our already solid positions in core areas of the business such as diagnostics and service.
Our strategy to further increase our adjustable markets in these areas continues to be through geographic expansion and broadening our capabilities to meet growing demand.
In diagnostics we grew low double digits as we continue to benefit from improving birthrates and increasing purchasing power of the middle class outside the U.S.
which is creating a nice tailwind for our newborn and prenatal screening and infectious disease testing solutions.
During the third quarter these 3 product lines actually generated more revenue outside the U.S.
than within whereas several years ago over 60% of the revenues were U.S.-centric.
We expect this trend to continue as we have recently secured a number of new international customers and are driving expansion of our diagnostics business deeper into new markets.
In our service business which grew high single digits in the third quarter we are experiencing strong growth as our customers continue to seek innovative partners like PerkinElmer to help improve productivity and outsource their lab services.
Our OneSource solutions are playing a vital role in meeting this demand.
Our recently announced acquisition of Ceiba Solutions will help expand our deep software and services solution with lab IT capabilities focused on lab computing applications management and scientific development.
Similar to our diagnostics business service grew faster outside the U.S.
with high-teens growth in the Asia-Pacific region.
On innovation front our recently launched new products have been gaining interest among customers and we are on track to meet our goal of $15 million to $20 million in the second half new product revenue.
Specific application areas where we are gaining traction include the food forensics and environmental markets with our new mass spec the Biotherapeutics drug discovery area with our new microfluidics and MultiMode Plate Reader products and the preclinical cellular analysis space with our new High Content Imaging offerings.
In the research and environmental markets new innovations are critical to driving growth as these end markets are currently experiencing modest overall growth rates as certain geographies face more challenging macroeconomic headwinds.
In particular Europe experienced low single-digit growth consistent with recent declines in broader European economic indicators.
And in China while we grew high single digits we continue to encounter headwinds in the environmental business due to delays in converting tenders to orders.
Despite these delays we remain bullish on our long-term outlook as the demand for our solutions in analyzing and monitoring environmental conditions in this market continues to grow.
The U.S.
remains an area of increasing strength as we grew mid-single-digits in the quarter and experienced accelerating order patterns as we exited the quarter.
So overall our performance within the major geographies was consistent with our expectations except for Asia-Pacific where China which fell slightly below our expectations of low double-digit growth.
In addition to our revenue growth we are also quite pleased with our operational execution in the quarter.
Despite the impact of foreign exchange our incremental revenue to adjusted operating income came close to 50% reflecting good leverage of our operating expenses and improving mix.
Furthermore our operating cash flow was roughly equal to our adjusted net income demonstrating our effective operational execution.
So in summary we feel very good about our results for the quarter and our progress through the first 3 quarters of the year.
On the top line despite less favorable-than-expected macroeconomic conditions reporting revenue increased about $60 million or 4% organically representing a 300-basis-point improvement over our 9-month growth rate this time last year.
Additionally adjusted operating income increased $32 million to $264 million translating into 150-basis-point improvement in adjusted operating margins and resulting in a 19% increase in adjusted EPS despite this year's significant foreign exchange headwinds.
And free cash flow to-date is significantly higher than this time last year reflecting a greater-than-90% conversion of free cash flow to adjusted net income.
However arguably more important than our financial success has been the progress we've made in improving our growth profile to introducing more new products and strengthening our organizational capabilities in key growth markets.
This progress positions us extremely well to take advantage of the attractive opportunities we see through advanced smart solutions enabling better screen for adulterants in food and contaminants in water and air earlier and a more accurate disease detection and more efficient drug discovery.
I would now like to turn the call over to Andy who will cover our Q3 financial performance and guidance for Q4 and then we'll open the call for your questions.
Andy? Thanks Rob and good afternoon everyone.
As we've done in previous quarters I'll provide some color on our end markets a financial summary of our third quarter results.
I'll provide some details about our fourth quarter guidance and we'll open up the call as Rob mentioned for questions.
Reported adjusted and organic revenue each increased 4% for the third quarter of 2014.
Adjusted revenue was $543 million as compared to $523 million in the third quarter of 2013.
I want to note the foreign currency exchange rates had a negative impact of approximately $3 million versus our third quarter adjusted revenue guidance provided in late July.
By segment organic revenue in both our Human Health and Environmental Health businesses grew 4%.
Looking at our geographic results.
All the regions performed better on a sequential basis as organic revenue increased high single digits in Asia mid-single-digits in the Americas and were up low single digits in Europe.
Across China organic revenue increased high single digits driven by strong demand in our diagnostics business and renewed strength in our research business.
While we believe that much of the government activity impacting our Environmental business over the last couple of quarters is winding down funding continues to be delayed.
Despite these challenges as Rob mentioned we continue to believe that our product portfolio is well positioned and we expect to see a high single to low double-digit organic revenue growth in China for the year.
From an end-market perspective our Human Health business represented approximately 56% of reported revenue in the quarter with diagnostics representing 29% and research representing 27% of reported revenue.
Organic revenue from our diagnostics business increased low double digits during the third quarter and as Rob mentioned strength in our newborn and prenatal screening and infectious disease testing solutions was driven by healthy demand throughout emerging markets bolstered by key wins in Thailand Brazil and Mexico during the quarter.
Once again we saw a solid performance from our SYM-BIO business as infectious disease testing in China grew double digits organically.
Our Haoyuan business had another solid quarter capturing a number of new tenders in the Chinese blood-screening market.
We are now beginning to see earlier wins translate into revenue as some provinces have begun to roll out screening ahead of the mandated 2015 start date.
Medical Imaging organic revenue growth was up double digits in the period driven by growth in our new wireless cassette detector using diagnostic imaging and veterinary applications and an easier comparison.
We expect to see somewhat more moderate growth in the fourth quarter as a result of OEM buying patterns as well as softer European demand.
Our research business declined low single digits in the third quarter.
Low single-digit growth in pharma and biotech was offset by continued softness in academic end markets which declined low single digits.
A bright spot within the research business was the performance of our microfluidics franchise up double digits in the quarter.
As we look to the fourth quarter we expect to see a sequential improvement in our research business driven by our new product introductions focused on High Content Screening and microfluidics.
Moving to our Environmental Health business which represented 44% of reported revenue in the third quarter.
We serve 3 end markets laboratory services which represented 21% of reported revenue; environmental and safety which represented 15% of reported revenue; and industrial which represented 8% of reported revenue.
As I've mentioned earlier organic revenue in our Environmental Health business grew 4% in the quarter driven by continued strength within our service offerings which increased high single digits.
In our industrial environmental and safety end markets organic revenue was up low single digits in the quarter as funding delays in China were the primary drivers impacting our instrument revenues.
While the volume of tenders being released is modestly improving we expect to see instrument revenue growth in the fourth quarter similar to what we saw in the third quarter.
As Rob mentioned we recently acquired Ceiba Solutions a leader in Lab IT.
The acquired capabilities from Ceiba will help expand our multivendor software and services offering with enhanced information technology focused on lab computing applications management and scientific applications development.
Ceiba will have a de minimis impact on our financial results in 2014.
Turning to our margin performance in the quarter.
Adjusted gross margin in the third quarter of 2014 was 47.3%.
As our new product introductions continue to gain traction we expect to see sequential improvement in the fourth quarter offset by the negative impact from foreign currency and certain revenue mix.
Adjusted operating margin in the third quarter expanded 110 basis points to 16.8% as compared to 15.7% for the same period a year ago.
We continue to experience strong leverage from SG&amp;A and R&amp;D productivity initiatives.
As we noted in our second quarter call our R&amp;D spend is still expected to ramp in the fourth quarter as we continue to efficiently add resources and investments in our center of excellence -- our Center for Innovation at Hopkinton.
By segment adjusted operating margins in our Human Health business increased approximately 50 basis points to 23.2% as compared to 22.7% in the third quarter of 2013.
The increase was primarily a result of productivity actions and volume leverage.
In our Environmental Health business adjusted operating margins expanded approximately 140 basis points to 12% as compared to 10.6% in the third quarter of last year.
The increase was primarily the result of sales mix and ongoing productivity initiatives.
On a non-GAAP basis our adjusted tax rate for the quarter was approximately 20% and our full year guidance is expected to remain at approximately 21%.
Adjusted earnings per share of $0.57 was at the high end of our guidance range despite being negatively impacted by just over a $0.01 from foreign currency.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We finished the third quarter with approximately $860 million of debt and approximately $204 million of cash.
We exited the quarter with a debt-to-adjusted-EBITDA ratio of 2.0x and a net debt-to-adjusted-EBITDA ratio of 1.6x.
We are pleased with our cash flow performance year-to-date as our operating cash flow from continuing operations was $63 million in the third quarter and $186 million for the full 9 months -- first 9 months of 2014.
I'd like to note that the board has approved a new 2-year 8-million share repurchase program to replace the existing program which expired last week.
Looking back on our results through the first 9 months of 2014 we are encouraged by the resiliency of our organic revenue growth particularly in light of a somewhat softer global economic backdrop.
Productivity initiatives and volume leverage remained key contributors to our year-to-date adjusted operating margin expansion for approximately 150 basis points and working capital improvement that helped contribute to a strong year-over-year cash flow performance.
Turning to the fourth quarter.
Foreign currency is expected to negatively impact adjusted revenue by approximately $13 million and adjusted earnings per share by approximately $0.03.
As a result we expect reported revenue to be in the range of $595 million to $605 million driven by improved demand in the U.S.
and a slightly weaker Europe a result of a difficult prior year comparison.
Our outlook for APAC is consistent with our performance in the third quarter as strength in our Human Health business is offset by soft environmental safety demand which continues to be negatively impacted by longer government funding cycles.
We remain confident in our ability to deliver 130 basis points of operating -- adjusted operating margin expansion for the year and our guidance assumes a fully diluted share count of approximately 113.8 million shares.
Taking all these items into account adjusted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of this year is expected in the range of $0.77 to $0.79.
For the full year adjusted earnings per share guidance is expected to be $2.39 to $2.41 with the midpoint of $2.40 a result of a negative impact of approximately $0.04 of foreign currency headwinds in the second half.
This concludes my prepared remarks.
Operator at this time we would like to open up the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Doug Schenkel from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Chris Lin on for Doug today.
So despite revenues coming in I think a bit lighter than expected you still delivered a solid operating margin expansion on a year-over-year basis.
As I look at your OpEx you were able to control R&amp;D and SG&amp;A expenses quite well.
And overall OpEx declined year-over-year even though the prior year quarter you decreased operating spending as you went through your restructuring.
My question is can you talk about how many more levers are there left for you to pull on operating expense side given that you've had 2 impressive areas of operating expense control? Sure.
We have obviously done a lot over the last couple of years that is really driving that improvement.
And I think as we look forward we feel like -- we will continue to get the benefit of a smaller footprint we'll continue to get the benefit of leveraging our facility our back-office facility in Poland.
And we also on top of that have other things we're looking at.
We have mentioned before our supply chain opportunities in China are still ramping and we feel like that's going to provide us with some upside over the next couple of years.
In addition we also have an issue around indirect spend.
Our goal this year was to take $10 million of indirect spend costs out of the system.
I think we're going to have equally if not greater goals for next year and so I think we can continue to see good leverage from that.
I think I did mention on the R&amp;D side we are going to continue to build out the R&amp;D facility.
So some of that upside that we saw in the second third quarter will start to anticipate in the third quarter.
But I think overall we are much more efficient on the R&amp;D front and we will continue to be very diligent on the G&amp;A front.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just one more question.
So I think at today's spot rates it will appear FX represents about a 2% headwind.
Revenue for --at '15 revenue is that about right? And I think you guys have a decent and natural hedge in most geographies with few exceptions.
Does the revenue headwind via FX trickle down to EPS at slightly above the net margin? It is slightly higher flow-through it is a slightly higher flow-through than we've seen in the past primarily because most of the volatility has been with the euro where we do have a fairly significant cost base.
So we are somewhat naturally hedged.
I think if you look at the strengthening of dollars since -- if you look at the spot rate the dollar strengthened about 6% and a lot of that is in areas where we don't have a significant cost position such as Japan and some of the emerging economies.
The flow-through on that top line headwind from FX is a little bit higher and that's why you're seeing the $0.03 on top of the $13 million of revenue headwind.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sorry I think -- can you just comment on what the FX headwinds for -- on 2015 will be at today's rates? We will probably talk to you a little bit more about that when we talk about 2015 guidance and things could change between now and then so I'd probably defer that until that time.
Our next question comes from Paul Knight from Janney Montgomery.
Research Division</strong> Rob can you talk about the service business a little? And specifically the question I have is some of your competitors are focusing on services more of an offering is it because you've taken share? What are the dynamics going on with some of your peers trying to be a little more focused? And are you worried about it is my first question.
So first of all I would say within our service business as I mentioned we continue to see good growth there.
What we're focusing on is continuing to expand there particularly in the emerging markets.
What we saw in Q3 was strong growth clearly across all the regions but particularly strong in the Europe and emerging markets here.
I think I mentioned high teens in the APAC area.
So our approach is to continue to expand in the emerging markets.
I would say with regard to why the competitors are focusing more on service first of all I think you guys talked to them about that.
But I think what we're -- what we've always felt is the service engineer creates much more relevance with the customer.
And as you become more relevant with the customer hopefully that allows you to pull through additional products.
From our perspective what we're looking to do is to continue to build out our capabilities.
And so the Ceiba Solutions acquisition which we've announced fairly recently is an example of where we're continuing to add in that case Lab IT.
So hopefully differentiate our offering on the services side relative to just sort of repair and overhaul.
Research Division</strong> And you mentioned that China was I think showing better bookings.
Could you talk about that you're not actually guiding the higher China growth though in Q4? Yes I think that's correct.
I mean as I think about China what we've seen there is diagnostics continue to do very well really sort of unimpacted by any of the say overall slowdown.
We saw in the research market in Q3 that come back.
And so we actually saw good growth in research.
The area that sort of lagged a little bit and I think we talked about this last quarter is particularly around the food safety area that continue to be down.
We did see decent growth on environmental.
And so given that that has not snapped back particularly in Q3 we're being somewhat hopefully conservative and cautious into Q4.
But Andy did mention we are seeing a little bit of improvement on the orders and the tenders.
But again this continual delay in sort of funding has sort of led us to be more conservative in Q4.
Our next question comes from Bill Quirk from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Dave Clair from Piper Jaffray.
So I was hoping to get a little bit more color on the global academic markets.
It sounds like those were a little weak this quarter.
Can you give us some more info there? Yes.
I would say for us the academic markets will decline let's say low single digits.
But what I would point out a couple of things there is this is where our Radiochemical business is.
And of course that continues to be a drag on the academic markets.
And the second thing I would point out I think we've talked about this in prior quarters in our in vivo imaging business in the third quarter some of the royalty revenue or licensing revenue that we had received historically sort of has come off.
And so when you look at our low single-digit decline in the quarter it was really driven by those 2 things.
The radiochemical business and the reduction in our licensing revenue in the in vivo business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know you guys aren't giving 2015 guidance today.
But how should we think about 2015 operating margin expansion? Well I think we have communicated fairly consistently that we believe we can drive 60 to 80 basis points of margin expansion on mid-single-digit growth.
And I think that calculus still holds.
I think we're always looking for ways to accelerate that.
In some cases we may end up expanding margins faster.
In some cases we may spend it back but I think that's probably a pretty good proxy going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last one for me.
And it sounds like you're making some good headway on the China and AT [ph] opportunity? Can you just give us a little bit more color on the number of tenders that you're winning? And it sounds like actually testing might be starting out on a regular basis in some areas a little bit faster than expected.
Yes I think we continue to feel good about the blood-screening market in China.
We talked about the fact that we continue to do a nice job on winning tenders there.
We're continuing to build out our production capacity in China.
So I think we feel good about the opportunity that that presents itself.
And I think as I mentioned in the past it's currently sort of single-digit millions for us from a revenue perspective but we do -- we would expect when you look out a couple of years this is probably a $20-million or $30-million business for us in a couple of years.
Our next question comes from Ross Muken from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Maybe on the capital allocation side obviously you re-upped without the 8-million share buyback.
Can you talk about how should we think about sort of pacing there and transpose that again sort of the more recent activity over the last few years which has been more tuck-in driven.
You've obviously gone through a period here where you've probably been a little bit less active than maybe you wanted but valuations have also been up.
And so help us put that puzzle kind of together.
And so I would say Ross first of all I think our preference is to do the tuck-ins as they obviously make good strategic sense and have good financial returns associated with them.
As you mentioned that's been a little challenging in this environment.
I will tell you more recently the pipeline looks -- I would say we're more optimistic with our pipeline.
And so I think that was one of the reasons why in Q3 we weren't as active in the share buyback as maybe we could have been.
But at the same time we want to have the flexibility so that if we're not successful with the tuck-ins we want to be sort of aggressive on the share buyback area so that was really the basis behind -- or the background behind asking the board to sort of not only re-up the historical 6 million shares but actually increase it to 8 million.
With regard to how we would specifically pace that out I think that's going to be largely dependent on what kind of success we have with the bolt-ons or the tuck-ins.
Research Division</strong> And I guess as you look at your core debt [ph] activity in the last 6 to 12 months or year-to-date and do you feel like you've wanted to be more active and you're -- you just seen assets trade away from you? And has that been more on the higher growth areas? I mean maybe just give a little bit of color of what's transpired over the course of the year.
Because it's been a fairly inactive year for you in general.
I would say probably the single biggest reason for our lack of doing some of the deals is probably valuation you're saying -- and of course that would be largely around the higher-growth assets.
So when we look at some things that we felt were particularly attractive from a strategic perspective we were just challenged by coming up with the valuation numbers.
And so I think one of the things -- hopefully we'll continue to be as disciplined in the returns that we look at from an acquisition perspective.
I think we sort of tried to point out in the past that while we will be opportunistic and we will look for bolt-ons we don't feel like there's anything that really we sort of have to do.
And so I think we can be a little bit disciplined.
But at the same time we recognize that particular to assets that's got good growth prospects that in this environment people are paying up for it and to be competitive we'll have to be aggressive.
And so we've got to make sure that that asset fits well with us strategically that we can try to put synergies and that sort of 1 plus 1 is greater than 2.
Our next question comes from Dan Leonard from Leerink.
Research Division</strong> So it looks like your gross margin's going to be down pretty sharply in the fourth quarter.
How much of that is foreign currency versus other factors? And is there any -- are there any actions you can implement to help offset? I think FX is clearly a piece of it.
I would say it's maybe not quite half.
The rest of it is clearly ongoing mix with very strong service revenues we think we'll continue into the fourth quarter which is fairly consistent with kind of what we've seen historically.
I think the one thing that could change that is the uptake in our new products.
We are seeing very strong gross margins on the new products we've launched.
So if we can see a pickup there I think that will be a positive.
And again some of the things I talked about for operating margin also affect gross margin which is around our supply chain.
I think going forward we hope to start to see some pickup on procurement in Asia in the fourth quarter but more so in the second half but we should see some benefit from that.
I think the other thing I would mention is -- and we've talked about this in the past as we continue to grow in emerging markets the dynamic there from a P&amp;L perspective is it usually puts a little pressure on gross margins but it's accretive from an operating margin perspective because our operating expenses in that region of the world has the tendency to be lower.
And so again this growth in emerging markets is also putting pressure on -- as I said it's accretive to operating margins but it does have the impact of being dilutive to our gross margins.
Research Division</strong> And I guess my follow-up.
So I feel like your services business has been growing faster than the corporate average for years.
But the negative impact on gross margin seems to have shown up more recently.
Is that fair? And if it is is there maybe -- to the extent that -- are people just needing more things repaired now than previously to the degree it's kind of an insurance business and folks are...
I would say first of all as you point out the service business has been going well.
And as we've talked about in the past the service business is in most part accretive to our operating margins.
So that's actually been one of the contributors when you look at the significant operating margin expansion that we've had over the last couple of years.
Depending on the type of service that's done and whether it includes our spare parts or not will also get to the point of whether it's accretive or dilutive in the gross margin area.
Our next question comes from Isaac Ro from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On Europe I want to spend a minute on that region.
Now I'm just curious how you're paced throughout the third quarter just given what we're seeing in the macro picture here and curious what is baked into your expectations for the fourth quarter this year? Well we actually saw Europe get a little bit better through the third quarter.
But what we've built in is actually down a little bit in Europe relative to the growth we saw in the third quarter and that's fundamentally driven by comparisons or comps.
If you look at our -- our fourth quarter in 2013 we had a very strong Europe and it was up high single digits.
And so we're -- again hopefully we're being conservative.
But given the comp that we have in the fourth quarter in our guidance we're assuming Europe actually is down low single digits.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just on the newborn business as we think about the overall trend globally on birth rates at least in the U.S.
it seems like things have gotten better throughout the year.
And I'd be curious if you guys are expecting that to accelerate into the end of this year and into next year? Or if we're on a slow-but-steady kind of improvement? No I would say the U.S.
birth rates for us while they're increasing they're not increasing -- they're not improving at an increasing rate.
So U.S.
birth rates the ones that we track are probably at 1% 1.5% increase year-over-year.
The growth that we're really seeing in the newborn area is really outside the U S.
And some of that is birth rates but quite frankly more of that is adoption.
So I think Andy mentioned a little bit of this in his prepared remarks but what we saw in the third quarter were significant wins in Thailand Brazil.
We've recently signed a big contract in Mexico.
China grew over 20% in newborn.
So newborn is really expanding outside the U.S.
Some growth in Europe but again it's largely in the emerging markets.
Our next question comes from Miroslava Minkova from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Let me just start with the new product.
I'm curious -- if you could give us some color on how your new products are doing in the marketplace is particularly the AxION iQT.
And you did mention in the script that you're comfortable with the $15 million to $20 million contribution.
Did the new products help in the third quarter? And how -- where are you with the launches? So as I mentioned we feel very good about the progress and with the new products.
What -- we think we're tracking well for the $15 million $20 million if you look at Q3 we think the benefit was probably in the high single millions probably call it $8 million to $9 million is what the benefit was in Q3 so again tracking well for the sort of high teens for the back half of the year.
If you look across -- I think we feel good at the traction on all of them.
The Phoenix the EnSight the Touch and the AxION iQT I think that continues to see good feedback from customers.
So I think we feel pretty good about that.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And a follow-up.
I was wondering if I could get you to reflect a little bit on the overall growth trend in your business towards that mid-single-digit growth trajectory targeted organic growth rate? You came close to that this quarter but you're still sort of at the low end of it.
What will it take for you to get more consistency towards the 5%-ish kind of growth rate? Is it all about China? Well I think that was probably a little bit of an issue relative to our guidance.
But I think for us let's say in sort of through the cycle is we've got to get some growth out of Europe.
I mean I think it's going to be difficult to get to sort of 5% or 6% growth if Europe continues to be flat or low single digits.
So I would say that's the biggest contributor from a geographic perspective.
I think from an end-market perspective we are seeing nice growth in diagnostics.
We're seeing decent growth in the Pharma area.
Academic is still a little slow and I think that's probably attributable to the government funding side.
And then again in some of the emerging markets some of the areas of industrial and environmental if we saw a pickup there I think that'd helpful.
So as I would think about getting the sort of mid-single-digits.
Our next question comes from Steve Tosha from Morgan Stanley.
I wonder Rob if I could ask you to reflect for another minute on the comment that you made about the strength in the U.S.
You made a comment specifically indicating that the U.S.
picked up through the quarter exited a little stronger.
And was that a comment more on the end markets? Or was that a comment on Perkin? Was there any contribution from new product flow embedded in that comment about the U.S.? So the comment specifically was about PerkinElmer.
So I was talking about our specific ordering pattern.
We did see it increasing through the end of the quarter there so we felt good about that.
By the way I do -- it does feel like the end markets seem to be improving as well.
And if you look at some of the macro indicators it does seem like the U.S.
economy is sort of improving maybe not as quickly as everybody would like.
But our forecast for Q4 actually assumes the U.S.
improves over Q3.
And to some extent going back to my prior comment where we're assuming Europe comes down a little bit fundamentally because it had difficult comps.
We're looking to sort of offset that or replace that with a little higher growth coming out of the U S.
Got it really helpful.
And then I wonder if you could think about the path forward in China for growth.
We're all focused on the potential for these budgetary constraints to be resolved.
But I wonder if we're in a scenario where the budgetary constraints are resolved how we should think about growth? You could argue that there's a potential for China to return to something akin to its prior growth profile but then in the next few quarters we'll have easy comps.
So if you just do a really simple arithmetic you might argue that it could be a strong double-digit growth driver.
Should we take the view that maybe the growth recovers or maybe it's healthy growth on top of easy comps? So I think when you look at our China business you really got to break it into the 3 components.
So first of all our diagnostics business has consistently been growing let's call it 20% maybe even a little better.
I think for the foreseeable future that continues.
Because we're getting good penetration as I mentioned before on both the newborn and the prenatal.
We're seeing infectious disease continue to grow nicely.
Some of that's new products.
And of course we've got blood screening coming on we think more significantly in '15.
If you look at research we've started to see some good recovery there in Q3.
We think that continues into Q4.
So again I think that's going to be a more modest increase over the next couple of quarters and maybe will return to sort of double digit or midteen growth there.
I think the area where your sort of comments are more germane is really around the environmental or more specifically for us the food area where we have seen sort of declining revenue over the last couple of quarters as these tenders have sort of backed up.
And there's a possibility it could snapback very quickly.
My sense is when it does open up it will sort of open up the funnel and it will be more measured.
Now you will have easier comps in that area but I don't think there's going to be a huge snapback in growth and you won't see it pop up in 1 or 2 quarters.
I think that will be more measured over a longer period of time.
Next question comes from Dan Arias from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Rob on blood screening in China as we move towards 2015 here how are you thinking about the pacing of revenues there as the mandate becomes effective? Do you see that being pretty metered? Or are you expecting a bolus one way or another as everyone sort of...
I think it's probably -- our sense is it's probably more in the back half as this thing sort of gets ramped up.
I think as you know it's supposed to start 1/1 but we think there will be a probably a little bit of delay and not all the provinces will probably start that the same time.
So we think by the time we get to Q3 we'll probably been where we probably need to be.
So at least our -- as we're thinking about it now that sort of paces out somewhat in the first and second quarter.
But by the time we get to the back half you probably got everybody sort of complying with the requirements.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then if I could just go back to China once more.
Last quarter you kind of quantified the scope of the tender delays by saying that I think 35% of the Environmental Health business was affected by that dynamic.
So I guess based on the way that you just talked about the different end markets where would you sort of put that number at this point? So I think that's probably still a pretty good number.
I mean if you look at the environmental business right now again it's really focused for us in really the food area what we would call safety and security.
And that's probably in the 35% to 40% of our business in China.
That's when it's been slow.
Actually environmental grew fairly significantly in the quarter.
And industrial sort of flattish.
So I would say it's probably 35% to 40% of our Environmental business which right now is about half of China so just to give you a calibration there.
Next question comes from Jeff Elliott from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> My question for you Andy on the indirect spend side you mentioned the savings there $10 million you targeted this year.
Can you talk about the areas you're targeting? And how much flexibility do you have to perhaps step that up next year? Well I think we have a lot of opportunities to step it up.
I mean I think really what we were trying to get across this year is really exposing the entire workforce to the initiative.
We've put tools in place.
We have all kinds of opportunities that we're going after at a facility level.
But I think if you look at our overall indirect spend it's well north of $400 million.
So if you just look at our percentage improvement year-over-year it doesn't take much to get to $10-plus million.
I think it's interesting as we end up rolling out initiatives across PerkinElmer we tend to have a great uptake.
And I think there's been a lot of work around this and I think as we start to put together our plans for next year I think you'll see something hopefully well north of that $10 million target for next year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just to clarify how much of that is volume dependent? Is that all independent of what the top line looks like next year? Some of it does have a volume dependency.
But I would say a large slot of it is not volume dependent.
And it depends on how you want to classify it I mean travel is a very significant expense it's somewhat volume related but office supplies and so forth tends to be less so.
Next question comes from Tycho Peterson from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I won't ask about China.
On neonatal I'm wondering if you can just talk on that.
You talked about -- or actually prenatal I'm sorry.
Your 20 months into this Verinata collaboration.
Maybe just talk about how that's trended relative to expectations.
And then are you getting any traction from the Good Start collaboration as well? So I would say prenatal for us grew I think was sort of high single digits in the quarter.
A lot of that was outside the U S.
Let's say as we've talked about in the past specifically in the U.S.
so the Verinata arrangement it's really -- gets down to how quickly the cash payments sort of flow from the payers.
We are I would say over the last 90 days we have seen good progress there so we're at a point now where I think the cash collections are getting much more I would say reasonable.
I would say the other thing in the quarter we reached agreement with Alumina on a couple of issues and we've now extended our contract for another 2 years.
So we feel good about that.
And I would say the third thing that I think helping us to some extent is we've seen a lot historically some of the competitors in the space do some things with regard to guaranteeing minimum payments or out-of-pocket.
And we're starting to see some of the payers sort of impose what I'll call a more level playing field there.
And I think the combination of those things I think make us feel much better about the business as we go into '15.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then going back to the question on M&amp;A before you don't have a lot of leverage.
You're focused on tuck-ins.
I guess can you maybe just talk about the thought process for not looking at larger deals.
I understand there's maybe some valuation disconnects out there but it's still a very fragmented industry.
And maybe talk about the maximum leverage you could consider taking on if larger deals did hit your radar screen.
I would just say one of things that -- when you look at larger deals our sense is it's much more disruptive to the enterprise.
So whether you can manage that or not.
But probably more importantly when we look out there we're not necessarily looking to build scale for scale's sake.
What we're really looking is where are the opportunities for us to build significant relative market scale.
And so we want to look for acquisitions that build in the spaces where we're strong and it's just hard to find big targets that do that.
And I think that's probably the bigger issue.
It's just that there isn't something out there at least from our perspective that is attractive that's large that builds in our areas of strength.
So take for example newborn screening or imaging or any of the areas where we think we're differentiated and focused.
And so I think that's fundamentally the challenge for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then one last one since you did mention imaging any thoughts on the flat-panel market? It looks like CapEx budgets are freeing up a little bit in the U.S.
Has that business picked up for you at all? As Andy mentioned we had a very strong Q3.
We think we're going to do sort of probably mid single in Q4.
We are seeing some push outs from a timing perspective but I think as we've talked about historically we think this is a business that probably grows mid- to high single digits.
We've introduced some new products most notably around the cassette and we're also starting to get some FDA approval of our panels which will open up adjacencies into the clinical market.
So I think -- we still feel good about this business and like I said can grow sort of high single digits.
Our next question comes from Brandon Couillard from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Rob early in the script you mentioned market share gains in the quarter.
Could you elaborate on exactly which verticals you experience the most acutely? Yes I would say specifically in the diagnostics and service area where we're seeing double-digit growth rates there.
Our view is we're able to go in and take some share.
In some cases it may be -- in case of service it may be customers that are outsourcing internal or it may be the case of -- in our diagnostic business is where we're taking business away from local competitors.
But clearly at sort of double-digit growth rates we feel like we're growing faster than the market.
Research Division</strong> And Andy a 2-part question for you.
You made some nice progress on the working capital front.
Can you remind us if you've made any or planned any U.S.
pension contributions this year? And then secondly what type of free cash flow conversion ratio would you expect is achievable for 2015? We -- I think noted in the previous call we did make a fairly significant pension contribution last year and we don't really have a need for a pension contribution in the U.S.
planned over the next few years.
So I don't foresee any cash outflow in that regard.
I would say if you back out some of the restructuring activity as we go forward and I think you will see that abate somewhat I think there's no reason we shouldn't be at that 100-plus free cash net income conversion.
We're about 92% year-to-date.
And that's certainly our goal.
That will certainly be our target as we go into 2015.
I think some of the improvement -- there's still a lot more improvement left to be done on the working capital side.
I don't see any reason why we shouldn't be reporting that 100-plus in the near future.
Next question comes from Derik De Bruin from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> You'd never -- you didn't specifically say an organic revenue growth target for the year.
I mean it was 4% to 6% you didn't really update that.
Could -- I assume we're -- just sort of given some of the headwinds in China and Europe we're probably for the full year we're tracking closer to the 4% to 5% range rather than 5% to 6%.
Yes.
I think that's a fair assumption.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I mean do you think it's still achievable? I mean do you think the higher end could potentially happen if things go away? Or you just -- is that out of the question? I'd hate to say it's out of the question but we would need some fairly significant growth in the fourth quarter to be able to get to 6%.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I guess just sort of -- through doing the math here it's like what -- do you have sort of impact on sort of relative to where your initial expectations were sort of Europe and China are in terms of where you thought you're going to be on an organic growth basis to where you ended up? Basically are those weaker markets cutting you by 1 point 1.5 points just some color on where the impact is? If we look at Q3 for example I would say America's at call it 4 mid-single-digits.
That's about what we expected.
If you look at Europe at sort of low single digits that's about what we expected.
If you look at APAC which again was sort of high single digits that's about what we expected maybe 100 basis points short and it really gets down to China.
And so I think as we mentioned China came in at high single digits which isn't a bad number.
But we historically and actually expected it could be sort of low double.
So that was really when you sort of cut through from a expectation to actual it really gets down to a little bit light in the APAC and it was fundamentally China.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you mentioned sort of the imaging royalties coming off.
What -- does that create a significant headwind in 2015? It creates a headwind I don't know if it will be significant.
But what I would say is we've got a fairly extensive intellectual property portfolio.
And while there were some coming off on the in vivo side we continue to make good progress in some of the other areas.
And so in any given quarter we've got probably a couple million dollars of licensing revenue maybe positive or negative.
So it's just sort of something that we deal with in any given quarter.
But I would say the headwind in '15 I wouldn't call it a significant headwind.
And it's really more Derik in the first half because some of those patents fell off kind of midyear so we've seen some of the impact to that in the second half.
So that V will really be a first-half V.
Our next question comes from Zarak Khurshid from Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Rob so how should we be thinking about the growth in the prenatal serum screening NTD business? I think that's a business that probably over time it's flat and maybe down a little bit.
It's not as much from a volume perspective but it's continued pricing pressure.
I would say so -- and when you talk about NTD in the U.S.
when you go outside of the U.S.
for the kids we continue to see strong growth there.
But I would say the NTD business over time is sort of flat to down slightly.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then how should we be thinking about NIPT potentially eating into that average risk market? And just generally how big of a like kind of a long-term headwind is the NTD business long term? Can you give us a sense just of the size of the business? I think eventually that probably occurs.
I think we're still some time off that from NPT going to sort of average risk.
But for us right now the NTD business is I want to say it's $20 million or something so not a huge part of our business but I'll give you that rough size.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then last one.
Just on -- while we're talking about the IP on the in vivo imaging side how is the licensing revenue coming through on the caliber side of the business? I know they're pretty good at asserting that microfluidics IP.
Yes I was sort of -- to some extent what I was referencing before when I was talking at -- with the microfluidics again it's a little bit lumpy depending on any given quarter.
But for example this quarter we did have some nice microfluidics licensing income come in that helped offset the in vivo runoff of the patent.
So I think we continue to appropriately enforce our IP and consequently that periodically allows us to put some additional income in any given quarter.
Next question comes from Peter Lawson from Mizuho.
Research Division</strong> Just thinking about 2015.
Which businesses excite you the most heading into '15? And which new products could be meaningful? Peter I would say all of the businesses excite me going into '15.
And I hope all my business leaders are listening to this.
But seriously look I think we have nice growth prospects across the board.
Clearly the macro indicators would imply that the diagnostics business I think continues to do quite well.
And probably the service businesses sort of spike those 2 out earlier.
But look our expectation is that all the businesses should be able to get the sort of mid-single-digit growth or better.
With regard to the new products I think we continue to feel good about the products around the research area.
We're making good progress there.
The Alpha Phoenix has had very strong demand as is some of the other products.
And we continue to feel good about the AxION with regard to the applications in some of the end markets there.
And I would say clearly while we've talked specifically about the products that we introduced in the back half of the year our expectation as we get into '15 that we'll continue to roll out significant amount of new products.
And that will continue to be a big contributor to our growth next year.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick question.
Andy I joined the call late.
The EPS impact for 2015 what would that be on the bottom line? We'll probably provide that when we give guidance for '15 because obviously it could likely change.
We just mentioned it was $13 million and $0.03 in the fourth quarter.
And our next question comes from Bryan Brokmeier from Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> There appear to be a few more locations on the map of your Elm air-monitoring system.
Are you generating interest in that system? And how is -- I think the largest is probably in Massachusetts in Boston.
How is that pilot program going? And any other comments that you have based on the early adoption of it.
I would say we continue to get a lot of interest.
We were at analytical over at Shanghai a couple of weeks ago and got some good interest there.
And we're seeing good interest not only from the municipalities but also industrial companies as well.
So we've got a couple of pilots here.
We'll probably be taken off in the latter part of the year or early '15.
And so we continue to be sort of excited about it.
Again what we tried to explain to people is we don't think there's any revenue in '14 but as we get into '15 here it could be incremental to our growth.
There are no further questions in queue.
So I'll turn the call back over to Rob Friel for closing remarks.
First of all thank you all for your questions.
And I hope you got a sense that we feel great about our performance in the third quarter and year-to-date.
And we believe we're in a great position to achieve a solid finish to the year as well as continued long-term success.
Thank you for your continued interest in PerkinElmer and have a great evening.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
You can disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2014 PerkinElmer Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Joyce and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Tommy Thomas Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Joyce.
Good afternoon and welcome to the PerkinElmer Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
With me on the call are Rob Friel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Wilson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
If you have not received a copy of the earnings press release you may get one from the Investors section of our website at www.perkinelmer.com.
Please note that this call is being webcast live and will be archived on our website until February 12 2015.
Before we begin we need to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor statements that we have outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings.
Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views only as of today.
We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements in the future even if our estimates change.
So you should not rely on any of today's forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any other date after today.
During this call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures that we plan to use during this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available as an attachment to our earnings press release.
To the extent we use non-GAAP financial measures during the call that are not reconciled to GAAP in that attachment we will provide reconciliations promptly.
I am now pleased to introduce the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PerkinElmer Rob Friel.
Rob? Thanks Tommy.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
I'm pleased to report that we delivered very good performance in the fourth quarter capping off a successful year in which we've made significant progress against our strategic priorities and delivered strong financial results.
Over the past year we've expanded our organizational capabilities introduced new innovative solutions for our customers focused our investments in the most attractive end markets and exceeded our financial forecast despite challenging macroeconomic conditions.
Turning to our financial performance in the fourth quarter.
We experienced a general strengthening of the business as we saw good growth throughout all products and geographies with organic revenue growing 5%.
We expanded adjusted operating margins by 200 basis points to 21.5% delivered strong operating cash flow of $97 million and increased adjusted earnings per share by 15% to $0.85 coming in at $0.06 above the high end of our guidance.
To mention a few commercial highlights from the fourth quarter in the diagnostics markets we were proud to receive market authorization from both the FDA and Health Canada to offer the first commercially available newborn screening test for SCID in the U.S.
and Canada.
Testing for SCID which is an inherited metabolic disease that impacts an estimated 1 in 58 000 newborns each year represents yet another important milestone as we expand our newborn screening menu.
Moreover as we aggressively spur our footprint to meet demand for prenatal neonatal and infectious disease screening we announced the opening of PerkinElmer's state-of-the-art clinical testing lab in Suzhou China.
This new facility will offer a complete solution for hospitals and patients and supports the country's investments toward detection and prevention of birth defects and infectious disease.
Also during the fourth quarter we made significant traction against our strategy to further penetrate the multibillion-dollar global food testing market through our acquisition of Perten Instruments Group a leading supplier of analytical instruments for quality control of food grain flour and feed.
We're excited about the opportunity to combine Perten's product portfolio customer relations and technology with ours and make greater impact on the world's supply of safe food.
In the life sciences market our new innovations are creating incremental market demand including our Opera Phenix High Content Screening System which has experienced an outstanding order rate since launching in the third quarter.
Contributing to the Opera Phenix's success is its ability to work seamlessly with our High Content Profiler a powerful new scientific analysis and visualization application powered by Spotfire.
The High Content Profiler helps customers better interpret their high-dimensional big data and draw critical insights more quickly.
Customers are finding that by pairing these 2 capabilities they have a line of sight towards moving into the next phase of gene targeting for personalized medicine drug discovery.
Finally in our efforts to adopt a more market- and customer-focused organizational approach earlier this month we announced the move of our OneSource service group from the Environmental Health business into our Human Health business.
With the predominant OneSource customer base being in the pharma and biotech markets this realignment will better equip us internally to serve our life science customers with complete solutions targeted toward their needs.
Reflecting on the full year I'm very pleased with our financial performance especially in light of the current macro environment.
In 2014 we grew organic growth -- we grew organic revenue by 4% expanded adjusted operating margins over 160 basis points increased adjusted EPS by 18% to $2.47 and generated strong operating cash flow of $282 million.
With that said 2014 marked the final year of the plan we set 5 years ago to generate significant adjusted operating margin improvement through both productivity and growth investments.
Adjusting for the recent stronger dollar we would have exceeded our goal of the 18% operating margins.
More importantly since establishing this goal in 2009 we have increased revenue at an 8% CAGR and EPS at an 18% CAGR.
Furthermore throughout the last 5 years we have elevated our leadership positions within the markets we serve.
Today 75% of our total revenue derives from products that hold 1 of the top 3 positions in their markets.
All in all our portfolio today is better focused on those areas where we can deliver exciting capabilities targeted towards meeting demand in the fast-growing markets and geographies.
In that regard we are pleased to be recently named by Instrument Business Outlook as the Company of the Year for 2014 in which they highlighted our ability to commercialize innovation as a key strength.
Building on our track record I'm confident that we have the right roadmap as we head into the next 5 years to continue to expand operating margins and grow our top line.
Before I turn the call over to Andy to cover our fourth quarter financial results in more detail I would like to briefly share some perspectives around the current growth environment.
From a geographic standpoint the outlook in APAC remains stable with China experiencing continued growth in diagnostics and some recovery in the research environmental and industrial markets.
Europe continues to face a weakened economy and should pose similar challenges in 2015 as it did during the majority of last year.
The U.S.
economy on the other hand is improving although the stronger dollar is creating new challenges especially in emerging markets.
We do anticipate a material headwind to growth in 2015 as a result of the unfavorable FX impact.
Looking at our end markets pharma is stabilizing as customers move back into development mode and away from restructuring.
We also expect to see strong biotech growth for Europe and the U.S.
in 2015.
In particular we are poised to benefit from investments in the area of cancer immunotherapy as well as the rising trend of outsourcing instrument maintenance and scientific services.
The academic and government sectors most likely will stay flat over prior year driven by soft funding in the U.S.
and austerity in Europe.
In the environmental and industrial markets growth is expected to remain at similar levels as in the second half of 2014 dependent on impending global environmental regulations and macro GDP growth rates.
We are optimistic about the rapidly expanding food market which has become one of the fastest-growing segments of the analytical instruments sector.
Finally the global diagnostics markets that we participate in continue to be very good driven by higher U.S.
birth rates prenatal and neonatal screening menu expansion and the long-term emerging market demand especially in China.
From an innovation standpoint we exceeded our goal of achieving $15 million to $17 million in new product revenues during the second half of 2014.
Market response to our new offerings has been quite positive and we anticipate that new innovations will help contribute to continued growth this year.
Notably in the Environmental Health business a robust pipeline of novel products will start to launch in the first half and gain scale in the back half of 2015.
As we drive innovation forward our focus will increasingly center on developing solutions that leverage capabilities from the full breadth of our portfolio with the goal to enable critical insights and discoveries in Human and Environmental Health.
As we enter 2015 we are optimistic about our opportunities to accelerate growth and further drive competitive differentiation.
We remain cautious however given the recent PMI data indicating a decelerating global economic growth which is somewhat tied to China's lower near-term outlook drop in oil prices and foreign currency headwinds.
While Andy will get into more detail I want to give a high-level overview of our 2015 guidance.
Due to the significant impact of foreign exchange changes relative to the average rates last year I will discuss our forecast on a constant currency basis assuming exchange rates remain where they are currently.
On a constant currency basis we are forecasting top line growth of 6% to 8% with organic revenue growth of 3% to 5% and about 3% of revenue coming from acquisitions completed last year.
Based on the top line performance -- based on this top line performance we believe we can grow adjusted EPS 11% to 13% on a constant currency basis.
We expect the impact of the stronger dollar will reduce revenue by about $100 million and reduce the bottom line by about $0.15 relative to our forecast based on the current currency outlook.
Consequently our reported revenue guidance is $2.28 billion to $2.32 billion which would represent 2% to 4% growth over 2014 and our adjusted EPS guidance is $2.58 to $2.64 which represents growth of roughly 5% to 7% off the $2.47 we delivered in 2014.
I would now like to turn the call over to Andy to walk through our financial results in greater detail.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon everyone.
As I've done in previous quarters I'll provide some additional color on our end markets financial summary of our fourth quarter results and I'll provide some details around our first quarter and full year 2015 guidance.
And then we'll as usual open up the call for questions.
I'd like to start by saying we had a very strong finish to the year.
Organic revenue growth in the quarter was 5% with recent acquisitions adding approximately 1%.
This was offset by unfavorable foreign exchange which represented a headwind of approximately 3%.
Reported and adjusted revenues each increased 3% in the fourth quarter.
Adjusted revenues were $609 million in the fourth quarter as compared to $593 million in the same period a year ago.
Since we last provided adjusted revenue guidance back in October foreign currency has negatively impacted our results by an additional $7 million.
Fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share grew 15% to $0.85 with full year adjusted earnings per share growing 18% to $2.47.
Our quarterly results were $0.06 above the high end of our guidance range the result of both volume leverage and strong incremental margins driven by favorable geographic and product mix as well as a modest impact from Perten.
I'd like to note that approximately $5 million of revenues recognized in the fourth quarter related to sales that had originally been forecasted for the first quarter of 2015 but were shipped prior to year end at the request of our customers.
Looking at our geographic results.
We experienced broad-based growth across all major geographies and end markets with improved results in academic markets and stronger analytical instrument demand in China.
Our fourth quarter organic revenue increased high-single digits in the Americas mid-single digits in Europe and Asia with China also growing at a mid-single digit rate.
As to our operating results fourth quarter adjusted gross margins were 49.5% up 30 basis points from the prior period.
Volume leverage along with geographic and product mix including new products were the key drivers offsetting the negative impact to foreign exchange.
Fourth quarter adjusted SG&amp;A was 23% down 110 basis points from Q4 of 2013 benefiting from the impact of successful productivity initiatives and foreign exchange.
Fourth quarter research and development spending was down approximately 50 basis points from the same period a year ago due primarily to efficiencies resulting from the consolidation of our R&amp;D activities and to our research Center for Innovation in Hopkinton.
We expect modest increases in R&amp;D spending throughout 2015 as we continue to invest in innovative new product development.
Our operational performance in the fourth quarter was very strong as we expanded adjusted operating margins by 200 basis points to 21.5% this in spite of the negative impact of foreign currency.
Net interest expense in the fourth quarter was approximately $9 million in line with guidance and lower than the prior period by approximately $5 million due primarily to costs associated with the retirement of our private placement notes a year ago and the resulting lower interest costs resulting from refinancing at a lower interest rate.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased 600 000 of the company's outstanding shares for a consideration of $26.5 million.
For the full year 2014 we repurchased 1.3 million -- 1 350 000 shares for a total consideration of $61.3 million.
Our adjusted tax rate for Q4 was approximately 20% and 20.5% for the full year essentially in line with our guidance.
Switching gears I'd like to walk through the performance of our business segments for the fourth quarter.
By segment Q4 organic revenues in our Human Health business grew 3% and the Environmental Health business grew 7%.
From an end-market perspective our Human Health business represented approximately 55% of reported revenue in the quarter with diagnostics representing 26% and research representing 29% of reported revenue.
Organic revenue growth from our diagnostics business increased mid-single-digits during the fourth quarter.
Our results were driven primarily by strength in our newborn and prenatal screening and infectious disease testing solutions which continue to garner strong demand throughout emerging markets.
In addition birthrates in the U.S.
grew at a 2% rate showing a modest improvement from a year ago.
This performance was partially offset by the expected decline in our medical imaging business due to customer ordering patterns.
Organic revenue in our research business grew low-single digits in the fourth quarter.
Our Q4 results were driven by a number of new product introductions including the Opera Phenix EnSight and Touch as well as improved demand for our innovative automation quantitative technology and informatics platforms.
Moving to our Environmental Health business representing approximately 45% of reported revenue in the quarter.
Analytical instruments sales represented approximately 25% and service represented approximately 20% of reported revenue.
As Rob mentioned earlier effective in 2015 we will be moving our OneSource Multi-Vendor Service offering into the research segment within Human Health to better serve our customers in the pharma biotech end markets.
As a result of this change we'll be restating our historical financial results ahead of our first quarter 2015 earnings call.
A non-GAAP reconciliation will also be posted on our website in the next few weeks to help you with your models.
Environmental Health organic revenue increased high-single digits in the fourth quarter and mid-single digits for the full year 2014.
Our fourth quarter results were driven by strong demand in both food and safety end markets with particular strength from our ICP-MS product portfolio and continued strength at our service offerings.
Turning to balance sheet.
We finished the fourth quarter with approximately $1 billion of debt and approximately $175 million of cash.
We ended the quarter with a debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.4x and a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.0x.
This compares to a net debt-to-adjusted-EBITDA ratio in the fourth quarter of 2013 of 2x as we essentially utilize our operating cash flows to fund acquisitions and share buybacks during the year.
Operating cash flow from continuing operations was $282 million versus $157 million in 2013.
Improved working capital efficiency and completed operational investments were key drivers to this significant level of improvement.
Free cash flow for the fourth quarter was a record $90 million.
Looking back at 2014 results we feel very good about our performance.
Our mid-single digit organic revenue growth was encouraging particularly in light of economic headwinds in Europe and China aided in part by successful new product launches.
As I mentioned we are very pleased with our operating margin expansion as we exited the year at 17.6% despite facing almost 50 basis points of currency headwinds during the year.
This represents almost 500 basis points of margin improvement since we first communicated our longer-term operating margin expansion goals in early 2010.
In summary we have delivered strong results over the last 5 years culminating in a very successful 2014.
Turning to 2015.
We entered the year with significant operational momentum.
We anticipate market and geographic growth rates in 2015 to be somewhat similar to what was experienced in 2014.
As in 2014 our strong incumbent positions coupled with the benefit of a full year of new product revenue coming from launches in the second half of 2014 and additional launches in 2015 give us confidence in our ability to deliver organic revenue growth.
As Rob mentioned the stronger dollar is expected to negatively impact revenues by approximately $100 million and impact earnings per share by approximately $0.15.
As a result we expect reported revenues to be in the range of $2.20 -- I'm sorry reported revenues to be in the range of $2.28 billion to $2.32 billion which represents organic revenue growth of 3% to 5%.
Adjusted earnings per share for 2015 is expected to be in the range of $2.58 to $2.64 which represents earnings per share growth of 6% at the midpoint.
Included in this guidance is adjusted gross margin expansion of approximately 20 to 30 basis points and adjusted operating margin expansion of 30 to 50 basis points.
Net interest expense is expected to be approximately $42 million to $44 million and adjusted tax rate is expected to be 21%.
We also expect a flat weighted average share count of approximately 113.5 million shares.
Given the significant strengthening of the dollar in the latter part of 2014 we also believe year-over-year comparisons will be more difficult in the first half of the year.
Consequently for the first quarter of 2015 we are forecasting reported revenues to be in the range of $530 million to $540 million or essentially flat but represent organic revenue growth of 3% to 4%.
As a result of the flat revenue combined with the impact of the timing of sales recognized in the fourth quarter which I mentioned earlier we now expect adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $0.44 to $0.46 for the quarter.
This concludes my prepared remarks.
Operator at this time we'd like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Doug Schenkel of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So my first question is yes this is clearly a nice end to a year marked by some quarter-to-quarter volatility.
One way you've managed operational spend in the context of this volatility was cutting R&amp;D expense.
And to be fair a lot of this was expected given the Hopkinton consolidation.
But you did come in I think a little bit lower than many of us expected.
So with this in mind can you talk about what's baked into 2015 guidance specifically for new product contributions to revenue growth? And will you likely increase R&amp;D spend a little bit looking ahead given you are seemingly expecting a little bit of a pick-up in sales growth over the next few quarters? Yes so first of all our plan is to ramp up R&amp;D.
And I would say when you look at 2014 as you pointed out part of that was a purposeful slowdown in spending.
But probably the bigger impact was our ability to hire the engineers or find the engineers that we were looking for.
And so as we talked about I think in the beginning of '14 we had a significant ramp-up of employment planned in Hopkinton and quite frankly it's taken us longer to find the qualified people to sort of fill those slots.
So hopefully we'll continue to succeed in that area.
See the other area that we've been focused on ramping up is informatics software engineers and again they are -- have been somewhat troublesome to find.
And we've seen some good progress here probably in the last 30 to 60 days.
So I think it's fair to expect an increase in R&amp;D spending in 2015 and we'll continue to layer that in.
Your other question was with regard to new product revenue.
Clearly we would expect an annualization of the revenue we saw in the second half.
So I would say we're probably looking for something in the $30 million to $35 million of benefit from new products for the entire 2015.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess a question on M&amp;A.
I mean even subsequent to the completion of Perten you guys have a pretty clean balance sheet.
The rating on the company is higher now.
So I was wondering if you wouldn't mind refreshing your financial criteria including ROIC hurdles accretion requirements maybe areas of prioritization and size limitations.
And building off of this would you describe the competitive environment in M&amp;A? It does seem like leverage ratio limits have come down a bit for PE which would seemingly be good for you.
But beyond that how would you describe the competitive environment for adding assets? So first of all from our perspective I think we feel pretty good about the capability we have to continue to do acquisitions and potentially buy back shares as well.
So I think our slight preference is to do bolt-on acquisitions that add big capability both from a technology and an organizational capability.
To the extent we can't find appropriate assets or the valuations are challenging we would buy back stock.
When we think about over the next couple of years we feel like we've probably got $1 billion of capability between the cash flow we -- the free cash flow we generate and the capacity we have on the balance sheet.
We would be comfortable probably at 2.5x EBITDA maybe stretching a little bit above that.
But I think when you look at the combination that's probably $1 billion of capability.
With regard to the competitive environment as I sort of alluded to before I would say valuations are -- continue to be high.
Makes sense relative to the cost of capital.
So my sense is increasingly to make good assets work you've got to have good synergies and it's got to make sense relative -- either from a technology or from a market -- accessing customers.
So we still see pretty good assets out there and we've got a pretty full pipeline.
One of the things we did do in 2014 is we significantly ramped up our internal capabilities around business development.
And so consequently I think we've seen -- we've built a nice pipeline and we continue to feel optimistic about our ability to continue to bring in some great assets over the next couple of quarters.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And if I could sneak one more in for Andy and I'll get back in the queue.
Andy you've mentioned about $5 million in revenue that was pulled forward into the quarter.
Would you be willing to just provide a little more color on how broad this was? Things like was it one customer? Was it a bunch of customers? And was it in 1 specific end market versus another? Sure.
It was really within 2 businesses.
It was with our diagnostics business and with our informatics business.
Both of those being high-margin businesses.
But it was less than 10 customers but it was split probably pretty evenly among the 2 businesses.
The next question comes from the line of Ross Muken of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> So maybe I've missed it.
I think on environmental I was trying to get some of the extra color on how growth looked between environmental and industrial.
Can you give us a flavor for how those 2 pieces trended sort of on a core basis? And then was there any notable change geographically? And it seemed like your commentary as a whole as you look forward was more conservative because of PMI but it looked like the business actually had some pretty good results in maybe some of the cyclically oriented areas.
So I'm just trying to figure out...
Yes so first of all on a geographic basis in the environmental we saw pretty good growth across all the geographies.
So whether it was Europe Asia or Americas it was all around mid-single digits.
Actually maybe Europe was a little bit higher.
But within those 3 geographies the growth of environmental was between 5% and 7% so it was pretty broad-based.
However when you look at the segments industrial was lower than the sort of core environmental and food.
So if you look at industrial was sort of low-single digits whereas sort of environmental food and water was sort of again closer to the mid to high.
So there was bifurcation from an end-market perspective.
But geographically it was fairly broad-based.
And again just even within China we saw some nice recovery and within environmental.
Greater China grew high-single digits.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just on the margin cadence obviously the currency environment has been tricky this year and obviously had a bit of weight in your earnings.
So as you think about various levers I mean obviously Doug touched upon the balance sheet.
You've got plenty of capacity there.
But as we think about -- you obviously just are coming off a year where you had pretty spectacular expansion that would seem like some of the heavy lifting is already sort of underway.
How much wiggle room do you have if we see either FX or something macro-oriented happen to kind of flex that line to make sure you can kind of manage within the earnings range? Yes I still think we see a number of opportunities to improve the efficiency of the operations.
And we've talked in the past about the fact that we've done a lot around our factory consolidation.
But purposely while we were doing that we were not as focused on switching our supply base out for example because we didn't want to be both moving the factory and moving the supply base.
We think there's opportunity to continue to get better leverage there.
We've talked about -- I know Andy's been talking about the big initiative around indirect spend.
We continue to get good traction there.
And doing some things on how we go to market whether it's more effectively utilizing the web or some of our back-office capabilities.
So we continue to see a number of opportunities to drive efficiencies and improve margins outright.
But quite frankly I think now that we're at the level call it 18% we do want to shift our focus a little bit more to growth.
And so going back to sort of Doug's original question I'm hopeful that we will be able to take up our spend around innovation.
And we talked about opening up the China lab.
There's another -- a number of great opportunities we see to take advantage of what we think are some terrific market positions that we have.
The next question comes from the line of Tycho Peterson JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just want to actually follow-up on the M&amp;A discussion.
Can you give us a sense of how you're prioritizing different areas? Obviously the 2 recent acquisitions Perten Instruments and Ceiba speak to some of the industrial or applied markets.
Can you maybe just talk a little bit about software versus other areas that you might prioritize from an M&amp;A perspective? Well I'd start off by saying I mean I think the great thing about PerkinElmer right now is if you look at research if you look at diagnostics if you look at environmental all those I think are attractive end markets.
So we've got potential targets in all of those.
From a prioritization standpoint though we would probably put diagnostics probably a little bit higher.
We just -- and I think we like the macro trends there particularly in the areas we operate in.
When you think about what's potentially -- the rising middle class particularly in the emerging markets and the continued pressure that's going to put on access to health care and aspects of newborn and infectious disease.
So I would say that has a little bit of a maybe higher priority for us.
We like the environmental area especially -- particularly food.
And even within the research area there's some areas that -- from a technology perspective.
The great thing about informatics and why we also have been focused on informatics is we believe they leverage across all 3 markets.
So again we're looking for targets in all of those areas.
But like I said probably diagnostics in certain aspects within environmental probably have a little higher priority for us.
Research Division</strong> And you talked in our conference about trying to kind of monetize synergies between Environmental and Human Health.
Can you just talk to what specifically that entails? Is that investments around software or -- just talk to what that means from your perspective.
Yes I think some of it is in software.
But it's broader areas.
There's areas like certain technologies.
I think I mentioned the -- specifically optics.
So if you look at whether it's diagnostics research or environmental we do a number of things that require -- obviously when you're into detection and imaging optics is a big component of that.
If you look at algorithms right again because it's -- when you're taking readings off of instruments and converting that into data and information there's algorithms.
There's service benefits across the portfolio.
So I think there's a number of technologies that leverage across.
Obviously there's software that leverages across and then things like brand and financial capability and sort of organizations.
So we like being about Human and Environmental Health.
It gives us access to customers and information that we can leverage across the businesses.
Research Division</strong> And just lastly on China you talked about things getting better on the analytical instruments side.
Can you just quantify what your expectations are in '15 and your confidence in kind of the stabilization and recovery there? Yes so if you look at China for us in 2014 it was in the high-single digits because I think I talked about before there was fairly big disparity between Human Health and Environmental Health.
I would say for 2015 we would say similar top line growth for the company.
So again sort of high-single digit growth.
Our expectation though is it would be sort of closer linkage between Environmental and Human Health.
So similar growth to what we saw in 2014 but hopefully a little closer linkage between Human and Environmental Health.
The next question comes from the line of Paul Knight with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Bryan Kipp on behalf of Paul.
I just want to dig in a little bit more on the environmental and industrial side.
Did you see any budget flush in that in context to the strength you saw there? I know with the FX volatility and just year-end strength there it just seems a little surprising.
I know you also said there were strong bookings at the end of 3Q.
So did most of those convert? And did account for I guess...
We don't believe that a significant contributor was budget flush quite frankly.
I mean if you look at within the specific growth of 7% again we saw higher growth on the service side.
So service was stronger than the product.
The product was still growing nicely but we saw it higher on the service part.
But we don't believe so [ph].
And again as I sort of alluded to before it was pretty broad-based across the geographies.
I mean I think some of that is attributable to better execution quite frankly within the businesses and maybe some improved market conditions particularly in China.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there any color on how it's paced so far this quarter? I guess bookings I mean for -- end of 4Q early 1Q? Our view right now is market conditions for the early part of '15 has been very similar to what we saw in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Last one quick for me.
Last quarter last call you said $400 million in indirect spend that you've kind of highlighted and potentially pull out a little bit of leverage here and there.
I think you said you'd like to pull out $10 million there.
Are you seeing additional opportunities that you could pull from on that indirect spend that could support '15 and above and beyond where you were prior? We absolutely do.
It's about $420 million in total.
And we've put a lot of effort around the tools and the education across the organization.
In fact we hired a dedicated procurement person dealing strictly with indirect spend.
So our hope internally is to derive an even higher savings off of that total.
And I think we may decide to spin some of that back or flow it through but I think that gives us a little bit of hedge on further currency deterioration.
So I -- we feel very good about that particular initiative at this point.
Research Division</strong> Will you give harder numbers down the road? I think as we progress through the year we'll provide some additional color on how we're doing.
Question comes from the line of Bill Quirk of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Alex Nowak filling in for Bill.
Can you describe the progress you're making in China with the increasing the newborn screening menu? I know you previously mentioned moving from 2 to 4 tests.
I guess based on my question is how far along are you in this adoption going to 4 tests? And should we expect this to go to 5 or 6 tests in the future? First of all we saw a very nice growth in China in newborn in the fourth quarter and in fact for the entire year.
But I would describe the growth in China as more testing more children than expanding the menu.
And I think right now at least with our discussions with the government officials there I think there's a higher priority around getting all the children screened at least the 2 to 4 before you'll see a big push on expanding.
Some of that may happen in parallel.
But if you look at our growth in 2014 it was probably more screening more children than it is absolute menu expansion.
As we get into '15 and '16 I think then you'll hopefully see some more menu expansion where as we mentioned we go to 4 or 5 getting maybe even some mass spec screening.
But clearly what we saw in '14 was less menu expansion and more -- screening more children.
Research Division</strong> Okay excellent.
And then staying on China real quick.
How is the NAQ [ph] conversion going for blood screening? Is it basically a national rollout at this point? Or is it still province-by-province? It's still province-by-province and it's starting to roll out but as I think we suggested earlier it's sort of slower ramp than anticipated.
So I think we talked a lot about probably seeing the uptick more in the back half of '15 as compared to early '15.
The next question comes from the line of Steve Willoughby with Cleveland Research.
Actually I have one on 4Q and then one on 2015.
First on 4Q the $5 million of additional revenue is there any way to quantify what that translated into earnings for the quarter? Then I'm also curious just with the margins here in the fourth quarter both gross and operating margins were better than I was looking for.
So I was wondering what drove the -- I mean when I look at it 12% quarter-over-quarter increase in revenue but only a 3% quarter-over-quarter increase in SG&amp;A.
So maybe I don't know if they're related at all or not.
And then I'll follow up with my question 2015.
Well as far as the overall EPS impact of the $5 million it's probably a couple pennies.
And I mean it speaks a little bit to the leverage we get on volume growth.
I mean one of the things that you look at -- as PerkinElmer starts to do $600 million of revenue or north of that we can produce a lot of incremental profitability.
So in the quarter we're 21.5% operating margin.
Then it speaks to the leverage we get particularly off of SG&amp;A but also some of the other fixed costs.
So I mean obviously that's going back to my prior comments around trying to get the growth cranked up.
I mean if we could get to the point where we're generating revenue significantly above the breakeven we start to see very high flow-through of the profitability because clearly the SG&amp;A and a lot of our costs do not scale with the revenue.
Okay.
And then just on 2015.
I may be off on this but I believe in 2015 you're going to have 53 selling weeks versus 52 in past years.
And so I'm just wondering I guess a couple of things.
One if that's correct.
Two if you could quantify the impact from that.
And then three what quarter those extra days will hit in 2015? So first of all that is correct every 6 or 7 years we have an extra week.
That's to some extent why you saw in 2014 we closed on the 28th and not the 31st.
So this year we'll have an extra week.
I believe Andy it's in the third quarter? Yes.
And I think we factored that into our guidance.
We don't think it's going to be a significant impact on the top line because fundamentally what you're doing is you're picking up a couple of days at the end of '14 and a couple of days at the early part of '16.
So that the week we get is really the 29th 30th and 31st of December in '14 and the 1st 2nd 3rd and 4th of January.
Our sense is maybe that's $15 million to $20 million of revenue.
And some associated profit flows through from that.
So -- and again we sort of factored that in the 3% to 5% growth guidance.
The next question comes from the line of Dan Leonard with Leerink.
Research Division</strong> You talked a couple of times about achieving for all intents and purposes your 18% operating margin target in 2014.
Previously you had offered another target of greater than 20% in 2017.
Is that still the plan or are you stepping back from that plan? I would say it's our goal.
I think what makes that more challenging is where the dollar is right now.
So -- and particularly if it's going to continue to strengthen.
So while we still have the goal out there internally and we're trying to get to 20% by 2017 I think of the euro at $1.12 and like I said and if it continues to sort of march towards parity I think 20% operating margins I don't think they become impossible but it gets a lot more challenging.
But Dan I think the activities that we had laid out and have in place through '17 will continue and I think we'll continue to make good progress on that.
We can't control FX but I think you'll continue to see us expand margins.
And if FX does head the other way it does make it a little bit easier.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow-up question on Human Health.
I'm trying to reconcile some of the positive new product commentary in that category with a result that was a little bit lower than we were looking for it had a low single-digit number.
So what were the offsets and what assumptions do we need to make to assume that that segment accelerates to a mid-single digit growth range after a couple of years of low-single digit? So if we're talking specifically about Human Health the offset was medical imaging as we mentioned was sort of down mid-single digits.
So that's why you're seeing Human Health pulled down a little bit from sort of the 5 to 6 it's been historically down to 3.
If you're talking more specifically around research and what needs to happen there I think a couple of things is as we continue to get new products out in those areas that we're focused like microfluidics and imaging and -- what will move is radiochemicals becomes a smaller percentage of the whole.
So obviously we've -- that's a drag.
But I think the other thing is we've talked about informatics which is in the research area had a very strong 2013.
In the back half of 2014 it wasn't as strong because of difficult comps but also because we're investing a lot in a new offering around the cloud.
And so we're optimistic that for '15 you'll see informatics return to sort of a high-single low-digit -- double-digit growth.
So it's a combination of getting new products out.
Second thing is getting informatics growing again at sort of a double-digit rate and sort of averaging radiochemicals down to a smaller percentage of the business.
The next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to start off with the margins.
I think in the beginning you or Andy talked about the long-term goals that you set you hit 18%.
And obviously it's been a pretty successful run here.
And as we look to the long term from here forward I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about where you think margins can go and realize you probably wouldn't want to give specific guidance but just trying to get a sense of what you think the opportunities are and how much you have to work with? Well going back to the comment earlier we had set a goal of 20% by the end of '17 and we felt fairly confident we could get there based on both the success that we've had previously and the opportunities we see going forward.
But as I mentioned before that's still a goal of ours.
It's just a little bit more difficult given the headwinds associated with foreign exchange.
So we haven't come out with a new goal relative to 20% because we're waiting to see whether the strength of the dollar is a short term long term and where it goes.
But I would say for now the 20% is the goal that we've got out there.
And I think as I said before I think our plans have not changed.
The only thing that's really changed is FX.
And if you look at reinvestment we're actually covering probably 8% to 10% increases in R&amp;D for this year for 2015.
So I think all the dynamics and the framework will continue to be executed against.
And again it's really going to depend on where the FX rate's at over the next 3 or 4 years.
But as a general rule the idea of 75 basis points a year plus maybe some benefit from acquisitions or capital deployment et cetera I think still holds.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's very helpful.
It all makes sense.
Second one was on newborn screening.
I was curious just the underlying growth trend that you saw domestically versus a broad how did that do? I'm assuming that U.S.
improved a little bit sequentially but wondering if that in fact was the case.
And then as you look at 2015 are you assuming that continues to trend better? Yes.
So your assumption is correct.
U.S.
improved incrementally as did the outside the U.S.
So we saw growth across both.
As you could imagine in the U.S.
it was sort of more menu expansion whereas outside it was more -- we continue to get good penetration.
I think the other opportunity as we look out as you probably saw we just got FDA approval for our SCID assay.
And we're very excited about that and we've actually started some pilot programs actually outside the U.S.
So for example France is doing a pilot program.
So we think there is continued opportunity even within the developed world to expand the menu.
So we continue to be quite bullish on the newborn screening growth prospects.
Research Division</strong> If I could just sneak one in real quickly.
Do you think the U.S.
volume environment for newborn could tick up this year as well just putting aside the nice menu additions as well? Our statistics as I think Andy mentioned would indicate the birthrates are up about 2% on a trailing 12 months.
So obviously that helps from a volume perspective.
The next question comes from the line of Miroslava Minkova of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Let me just start with a question on the revenue and earnings cadence in '15.
Just looking at your first quarter outlook here and it seems to suggest a somewhat slower start.
I know there was the $5 million that got pushed forward into fourth quarter.
But there have been some comments from your competitors as well that budgets stand to be spent a little bit later in the year perhaps more recently.
How do you think about sort of the revenue and the earnings build as you go through the year? Yes we talked earlier.
We do feel like there's going to be a bit more of a shift to the latter half for both the top and bottom line from a cadence perspective.
I think in the first quarter in particular we do have what I described as the $5 million in the fourth quarter.
But in addition we have some investments that we're making which is also impacting our earnings per share around the China lab and around some investments in informatics.
So I think we're going to see some essentially flat margins in the first quarter.
But I think that's because of investments and the impact of FX.
I think for the full year I think we still see revenue improving more in the second than the first half.
And we think operating margins are going to be after FX in kind of that 30 to 50 basis point range.
I would say the other thing -- and I mentioned in fact that we are expecting to introduce some new products at PITTCON which is the analytical instruments show in early March.
And so we're looking to get some nice tailwinds from that particularly in the back half of the year.
And so that's also skewing some of the growth and profitability in the back half.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And perhaps if I could go back to the Human Health business and the medical imaging in particular.
Do you expect this to rebound in 2015? And why was the margin so strong on the Human Health side? So first of all the answer is yes.
We do expect medical imaging to be sort of mid-single digits in 2015.
I think Andy in his prepared remarks mentioned a little bit of some customer ordering patterns that created some difficulty particularly in Q4.
I think the answer to your question about why the margins were sort of high is first of all we had some favorable mix during the fourth quarter as I sort of alluded to.
Newborn screening was very strong and that's probably one of our highest profitable business.
I think the other thing going to the overall point that I made before is when volume increases we create a lot of profitability on an incremental basis.
And so that's particularly true in Human Health where you've got high reagent flow which of course has very high gross margins associated with it.
The next question comes from the line of Derik De Bruin Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> It's Rafael in for Derik.
I just wanted to go back to the margins for 2015.
Can you just actually provide what the margins would look like on a constant currency basis? What the margin expansion would be at the gross and operating margin level? Probably closer to around 30 basis points at the gross margin level and probably 50 to 70 at the operating line.
Research Division</strong> Okay helpful.
And just wanted to go back on the -- to the research markets.
Can you remind us again what the -- where we are now in terms of what radiochemicals represents as a percentage of total sales? And how in vivo imaging how that business is trending? So the radio chemical business for us it's -- I call it $90 million of revenue just to give you a sense of the size of that business.
The in vivo imaging business I would say for the fourth quarter was slow relative -- and I think to a large extent that was associated by -- as I mentioned before some of the austerity we're seeing around academic spending.
We do believe or we expect in 2015 we'll see that business be up again in the sort of mid- to high-single digits.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last one on OneSource.
Can you just speak to the competitive landscape here in terms of lead generation and also just the pricing dynamics that you're seeing in the space? Yes I mean I think the multi-vendor service area has been one that's been fairly competitive for a period of time right? There's a number of strong competitors out there.
I think we've got a little bit of a first-mover advantage.
And the other thing I think that helps us is that our informatics capabilities which we've been leveraging the Ceiba acquisition was -- helped bolster that as well.
So I think the combination of being incumbents in a lot of areas having the strong software capability and being quite successful at it continues to us take our fair share but it is a very competitive environment.
The next question comes from the line of Bryan Brokmeier Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> First question on M&amp;A.
You said that you like M&amp;A opportunities in diagnostics.
Obviously you're strong in newborn and prenatal screening and strong growing in infectious disease.
Would you step outside of those core competencies or are those the areas where we should expect you to be the most focused on in potential M&amp;A opportunities? My sense is that you expect us to be most focused on I mean maybe potential adjacencies for those areas but unlikely that you're going to see us make a significant move outside.
Clearly an area of molecular diagnostics might be one where you think about the opportunity to take that into the -- our current markets that we serve.
But a few things that we're going to look for are stuff that are adjacent to what we do that we can -- are consistent with the channels that we have or the technologies we can deploy into our existing customer base.
Research Division</strong> And then do you know what the screening rate in China is up to today? And I've seen an estimate for Chinese births to decline as much as 30% in 2015.
Even with further expansion of screening can that business still grow in 2015 with such a severe birthrate headwind? Yes so the current screening in China is in the 65% to 70% range.
I think what you're referring to is 2015 is the Year of the Goat.
And so apparently Chinese do not want to have children in the Year of the Goat because there's negative implications to that.
And we've actually seen some of that impact in our prenatal business because that's a very good precursor to newborn rates.
30% sounds like a pretty high number to me.
And of course what's offsetting that to some extent is the release -- or the loosening of the one-child policy.
And so the answer to your question is we do believe we can continue to grow the newborn business in 2015 despite it being the Year of the Goat.
The next question comes from the line of Jeff Elliott with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> This is Ellie Popova filling in for Jeff.
Can you walk us through some of the main components of your revenue growth assumptions? I know you already mentioned new product but are you able to share your expectations around volume and pricing? And particularly pricing in light of some of the large FX moves we've seen.
I would say generally speaking pricing for us has not had a material impact one way or another if you look historically and consequently we haven't factored into it having a large impact in 2015.
I think if you look at all of last year pricing was in sort of 50-basis-point help.
So I would say for 2015 our assumptions are that similar level maybe 50 basis points of increase in price.
So that the majority of the volume is going to -- majority of the growth is going to come from volume.
To give you a sense by business I think it's fairly well distributed.
I think as we think about '15 right now it's probably Environmental and Human Health similar growth trajectories I would say in the 3% to 5% range.
When you look within Human Health diagnostics will probably be a little at the higher end.
So maybe that's in the sort of 7% range.
And clearly research will be sort of at the lower end of that maybe in the 3% range.
Next question comes from the line of Brandon Couillard with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Andy just on -- in terms of the outlook for next year could you give us some metrics around what you're looking for in terms of operating cash flow and CapEx? And how you're thinking about the free cash flow conversion that's likely for the year? Yes.
Sure.
I think we'll be in the mid- to high-90s on free cash flow conversion.
I think our operating cash flow should be around $315 million to $325 million so we'll have a 3 handle for the first time on our operating cash flows.
I think free cash flow yes it will probably be high 200s to $285 million to close to $300 million in that range.
I think we're going to see some continued improvement on the working capital side.
We've made some investments utilizing our SAP system on the collection side.
We think we can get some working capital taken out with that.
And we also have some efforts around inventory.
So we feel pretty good about the working capital piece and I think with the additional income we'll see our way to getting to those numbers.
Research Division</strong> And just on the research business in the fourth quarter could you give us a feel for the geographic performance? Or if there was any -- I suppose it's mostly pharma but any customer-based color to share on the fourth quarter? I would say if you look at the pharma sort of academics split pharma was sort of mid-single digits academic was sort of low single.
I alluded to the fact that the imaging business the in vivo imaging was impacted by the funding environment.
And of course when I talk about research here I'm not including the OneSource which was -- had a very strong fourth quarter.
I think what drove pharma to some extent was the new products particularly around the Opera Phenix and the MOD [ph].
We came out with a new product called the EnSight which combines both detection capability and imaging.
Geographically I'd say the strongest region was Europe.
Europe was up mid-single digits.
It was nice recovery there so we were pleased with the performance there.
Americas was up low-single digits and APAC was actually down a little bit even though China grew.
China grew mid- to high-single digits.
It was really some difficult comps we had outside of China that put pressure on that region.
But again it was low single in the Americas mid-single-digit growth in Europe and APAC was down just slightly.
The next question comes from the line of Reggie Miller with CitiBank.
Research Division</strong> Most have been answered so far but I guess kind of thinking big picture Rob.
You mentioned that you're playing a leadership position in more or less 75% of the businesses that you operate in today.
How often I guess do you look at the other 25% and say hey maybe kind of evaluate those and potentially I guess see if they are subscale or maybe look into divesting them? I mean we're looking at our businesses all the time.
And at least on an annual basis we're sitting down with the Board of Directors and going through a fairly thorough strategic review of the portfolio and the businesses.
And so one of the questions we continue to ask ourselves are are we the most appropriate owner of the franchise of the business? So it's something we go through like I said a fair amount of detail on at least an annual basis but it's something we're always challenging ourselves and questioning the businesses and making sure that we can continue to create value owning those businesses.
The next question comes from the line of Eric Criscuolo with Mizuho.
Research Division</strong> Just filling in for Peter tonight.
I guess if you could maybe talk about -- or talk a little more about the Perten acquisition and the kind of growth rates it had when you acquired it and where you think it could go under your leadership and maybe the margin profile as well? So as I sort of mentioned in my prepared remarks we're very excited about the Perten Instruments acquisition.
We think it brings us some terrific capabilities in and around broadly defined food but more specifically in grain and feed.
And we think the combination of their technical capabilities their product portfolio and maybe most importantly their access and customer reputation combined with some of the things that we have the capability to do will allow us to accelerate the growth in and around that business.
So -- and early indications are -- continue to be reinforce what we saw when we did the diligence.
With regard to specific numbers they are growing around 7% 8% which we would expect to continue and maybe even improve a little bit.
And it was a business that had 20% operating margin.
So profitable business good growth great reputation in the marketplace and we look to leverage that and continue to expand in obviously the important area of food safety.
Research Division</strong> I guess Andy on the FX issue is there anything that you can do I guess to maybe be a little more proactive in taking that hit a little or making the hit a little less as far as shipping costs or anything like that? Or is it something that you basically just have to kind of weather through for a little while? I think for the majority of the FX impact we have to weather through it.
I think what we're trying to do is accelerate some of the actions around -- some of the cost initiatives around direct spend and so forth to try to pull as much of that in as we can to try to somewhat offset it.
But it's a fairly significant number as we've communicated.
And we're not going to hedge the P&amp;L.
It's a lot of risk and you're wrong more than half the time.
So I think we'll just try to power through it.
It's -- unfortunately there's not any magic dust to help us here.
At this time there are no further questions in queue.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Rob Friel.
Great.
Well first of all thank you for your questions.
And so in closing I'd like to reiterate that I feel very good about our progress last year and I remain excited about building upon our accomplishments to take advantage of the significant opportunities ahead to both create value for our shareholders and make a positive impact on Human and Environmental Health around the world.
Thank you for joining us for the call and have a great evening.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2015 PerkinElmer Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Whitley and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Tommy Thomas Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Whitley.
Good afternoon and welcome to the PerkinElmer first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
With me on the call are Rob Friel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Wilson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
If you have not received a copy of our earnings press release you may get one from the Investors section of our website at www.perkinelmer.com.
Please note that this call is being webcast live and will be archived on our website until May 14 2015.
Before we begin we need to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor statements that we have outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings.
Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views only as of today.
We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements in the future even if our estimates change.
So you should not rely on any of today's forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date after today.
During this call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during the call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available as an attachment to our earnings press release.
To the extent we use non-GAAP financial measures during the call that are not reconciled to GAAP in that attachment we will provide reconciliations promptly.
I'm now pleased to introduce the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PerkinElmer Rob Friel.
Rob? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Tommy.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
I'm pleased to report that we had a good start to what we believe will be a successful 2015.
Our financial results were strong with organic revenue growth within our expectations and adjusted EPS significantly beating our guidance.
Adjusted revenue in the first quarter was $527 million representing constant currency adjusted revenue growth of 5% comprised of 2% from acquisitions completed last year and 3% organic revenue growth in the quarter.
While Andy will provide additional color on our revenue performance in the quarter I was pleased that we experienced growth in every business and across all major geographies.
While the strong U.S.
dollar offset some of the operating performance in the quarter constant currency adjusted operating margins expanded 130 basis points and constant currency adjusted earnings per share grew 19%.
During the quarter we also made significant progress on our growth initiatives across each of the businesses.
In Environmental Health we launched a number of new innovative products across our three product platforms including the first entirely corrosion-resistant flame atomic absorption spectrometer available on the market.
The new PinAAcle 500 Health Science is working with highly corrosive environmental samples detect minerals and metals for a variety of applications including testing drinking water and detecting elements in food samples for nutritional labeling.
In addition we introduced the first fast flame autosampler which allows dramatically higher throughput and the lowest cost per element of any similar analyzer on the market today.
We also launched the Spotlight 150 and 200 series microscope IR analyzers incorporating innovative flexible automation and software analytics allowing for simpler faster contaminant analysis.
Many of our new Environmental Health products were launched at the March Pittsburgh Conference under our theme of Instruments of Change which focused on how PerkinElmer makes a positive impact on the world through innovative science platforms and exceptional service.
Reinforcing our growing reputation for innovation a number of our scientists and products were recognized for outstanding achievements including the award for Best New Spectroscopy Product.
Also during the quarter we announced a strategic alliance with Waters Corporation to strengthen our chromatography portfolio for PerkinElmer's non-pharma customers.
Of note our new HPLC and Altus UPLC liquid chromatography solutions will help sciences in the environmental industrial and applied markets better detect adulterants contaminants and plumes.
In addition PerkinElmer will standardize on liquid chromatography and gas chromatography portfolio on Waters Empower Software.
This will enable customers to simplify their workflows by unifying their chromatography data onto one platform and providing greater confidence in their analysis.
We're also pleased by the traction we're seeing in the successful integration of Perten Instruments and our progress in further penetrating the multibillion dollar global food testing market.
In addition to driving strong growth in the quarter Perten was recently selected by the Canadian Grain Commission as its preferred near-infrared grain analyzer.
In Human Health we received market authorization from the China Food and Drug Administration to offer our automated high throughput Genetic Screening Processor the GSP and an assay for the detection of congenital hyperthyroidism.
We have additional GSP assays pending approval with CFDA that will further expand our menu for newborn screening in China and enable a wider range of testing for life threatening disorders in newborns.
We continue to make good penetration in other emerging markets with additional recent wins in India where we now expect to screen nearly one million babies this year and our recent contract win in Mexico is ramping up nicely.
In March we announced an exciting collaboration with Johnson &amp; Johnson's Innovation.
J&amp;J's life science incubator labs or J-Labs chose PerkinElmer to outfit its entire lab in South San Francisco California.
By providing our imaging and detection solutions plus onsite staff training and support for the resident biotech companies we are helping to kick start their research.
This new venture is a testament to J&amp;J's belief in our capabilities and applications expertise to help advance cutting edge science.
From a commercial perspective our decision early in the quarter to move the OneSource Services group into our Human Health business is already paying off.
As you may recall the intent of this move was to better serve customers in the growing pharma and biotech markets by delivering more complete solutions targeted towards their specific needs.
Early success in aligning our internal expertise and leveraging our strong customer relationships indicate that this will change – this change will contribute to solid organic growth in 2015.
Stepping back and assessing the broader macro environment growth across our geographies is fairly mixed but remains in line with our expectations at the start of the year.
In the U.S.
while the strong dollar is posting substantial headwinds against the top line it is proving to be the healthiest geography as growth steadily returns.
Europe is stable and showing some increased demand but the region is still working through its current economic challenges.
APAC remains stable overall; however Japan and Korea face weakened environments and despite China's overall economy slowing we continue to believe we will grow high single digits there given the critical segments of the economy we serve.
Consequently I remain confident that we can continue to leverage market opportunities across our businesses and drive profitable growth.
Based on our performance in the first quarter we are raising our expectations for constant currency adjusted EPS growth for the year to 12% to 15% from the previous 11% to 13% while maintaining our outlook for constant currency adjusted revenue growth of 7% to 8% and organic growth of 3% to 5%.
I would now like to turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon everyone.
I'll provide some additional color on our end-markets a financial summary of our first quarter results and details around our second quarter and our full year 2015 guidance.
Due to the recent volatility of movement in foreign currencies I'll be providing my commentary on a constant currency basis which assumes FX rates are the same year-over-year in order to better portray the results of the quarter.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures are included in our first quarter press release and have been posted to our website.
I'd like to begin by saying; we're off to a solid start in 2015.
As Rob mentioned we reported 5% constant currency adjusted revenue growth and 3% organic revenue growth in the quarter with unfavorable foreign exchange rates representing a headwind of approximately 6%.
Adjusted revenue was $527 million in the first quarter as compared to $532 million in the same period a year ago.
And since we last provided adjusted revenue guidance back in January unfavorable foreign exchange rates have negatively impacted our top line result by an additional $4 million.
First quarter adjusted earnings per share was $0.50 up from $0.47 in the comparable period a year ago and we had constant currency adjusted earnings per share growth of 19%.
Our quarterly adjusted EPS was $0.05 above the midpoint of our guidance range driven by strong incremental margins favorable geographic and product mix as well as the timing of certain expenses in the current quarter.
Looking at our geographic result we were encouraged by balanced growth across all major geographies and end-markets with improved results in Europe and stable demand in China.
Our first quarter organic revenue increased mid-single digit in the Americas low-single digits in Europe and Asia with China growing at a high single-digit rate as expected.
As to our operating results first quarter adjusted gross margin was 47.7% representing constant currency adjusted gross margin expansion of 100 basis points.
Our results were driven primarily by favorable mix success with our Asia supply chain initiatives and year-over-year improvement in our OneSource business primarily related to new customer startup cost in the first quarter of last year.
For the full-year we continue to forecast constant currency adjusted gross margin expansion of 70 basis points to 80 basis points.
First quarter adjusted SG&amp;A was 25.9% of adjusted revenue and a constant currency adjusted SG&amp;A reduction of approximately 70 basis points from the prior period as we continue to benefit from the impact of successful indirect spend initiatives.
Research and development spending in the first quarter was 6.1% of adjusted revenue and a constant currency adjusted R&amp;D increase of approximately 50 basis points from the prior period driven by our ongoing investments in innovative new product development.
The majority of the increased development spend came at our Environmental Health business supporting a number of new product introductions and incremental investment at Perten.
As Rob mentioned we launched a number of new products at Pittcon earlier this year.
We're excited about the second half revenue opportunity and we continue to expect full year R&amp;D spending to grow over 2014 levels.
Overall our operational performance in the first quarter was strong as we expanded constant currency adjusted operating margins by approximately 130 basis points driven by an improved gross margin and the success with the previously mentioned indirect spend initiatives.
We continue to feel good about our ability to expand constant currency adjusted operating margins in the 80 basis point to 100 basis point range for the rest of 2015.
Net interest expense in the first quarter was approximately $9 million flat versus the comparable period a year ago and our adjusted tax rate for the quarter was approximately 22% which was slightly higher than we previously guided due to the geographic mix of our profits in the quarter.
We continue to expect our adjusted tax rate for the full year to be approximately 21%.
Switching to the segments.
First quarter organic revenue increased approximately 4% in our Human Health business and approximately 2% in our Environmental Health business.
From an end market perspective our Human Health business represented approximately 62% of reported revenue in the quarter with diagnostics representing 29% and research representing 33% of reported revenue.
As a reminder we now report our OneSource multi-vendor services business in research.
Organic revenue growth from our diagnostics business increased mid single-digits off a high single-digits comparison in the first quarter a year ago.
Our results were driven primarily by strength in our newborn and infectious disease testing solutions which continue to garner strong demand throughout emerging markets as well as medical imaging which had organic revenue growth of mid single-digits.
In addition birth rates in the U.S.
stabilized showing modest growth versus a year ago.
We had strong performance from our diagnostics business in China with double-digit organic revenue growth in the quarter while our Haoyuan business continues to ramp.
We remain optimistic around the Chinese nucleic acid testing opportunity ahead of us but the near-term uptake is moving slower than expected a result of the government moving to a centralized purchasing model versus their traditional provincial model.
Organic revenue in our research business grew low single digits in the first quarter driven by our recent new product introductions including the Opera Phenix as well as improved demand for our innovative automation systems and our OneSource and informatics offerings.
We're currently seeing moderate improvement in the academic and government end market a field that we have not yet seen an inflection point while pharma and biotech remain stable.
We continue to expect research sales to have low single-digit organic growth for the full year.
Human Health adjusted operating margin in the quarter was 22% up 270 basis points over the first quarter of last year due primarily to a positive mix shift into informatics and reagents and improvement in OneSource profitability and the timing of expenses in the quarter.
Moving to our Environmental Health business which represented approximately 38% of reported revenue in the quarter we had organic revenue growth of 2% in line with our expectations.
Strength in the U.S.
was partially offset by softness in Asia-Pacific in spite of the good performance in China.
From an application perspective our first quarter reported results were driven by improved demand in the industrial end market driven to a large extent by success in our Mat Car (15:30) offerings and Perten.
As Rob mentioned the integration of Perten Instruments continues to go very well and we're on track to deliver the $0.04 of accretion from the acquisition for the full year as previously guided.
Environmental Health's adjusted operating margins in the quarter declined 270 basis points versus the first quarter a year ago driven primarily by foreign exchange headwinds the seasonality of Perten's profitability and the timing of selling and R&amp;D investments supporting the new product launches previously mentioned at Pittcon.
For the full year we expect Environmental Health adjusted operating margins to expand 80 basis points to 100 basis points.
Turning to the balance sheet we finished the first quarter with approximately $1 billion of debt and approximately $170 million of cash.
We exited the quarter with a debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.3 times and a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 1.9 times.
Adjusted operating cash flow from continuing operations was $62 million.
This performance excludes $24 million in voluntary pension funding payments made in advance of upcoming interest rate and mortality table assumption changes.
We do not forecast making additional voluntary funding payments in the year.
Looking into the second quarter and the balance of the year we're well positioned to drive significant operational performance.
We anticipate similar market and geographic growth rates as in the first quarter.
As in 2014 our strong incumbent physicians coupled with the annualization of new product launches from the second half of 2014 and additional launches in the second half of 2015 give us confidence in our ability to deliver mid single-digit organic revenue growth in the current economic environment.
Looking at the impact of foreign currency translation the stronger dollar is now expected to negatively impact full-year adjusted revenues by approximately $137 million and impact adjusted earnings per share by approximately $0.23 in total or an incremental $37 million on the top line and approximately $0.08 per share on the bottom line from initial guidance.
As a result we now expect reported revenues for the year to be in the range of $2.24 billion to $2.29 billion and approximately 7% constant currency revenue growth at the midpoint.
Our guidance continues to reflect organic revenue growth for the full-year of approximately 3% to 5%.
We now expect adjusted earnings per share for 2015 to be in the range of $2.54 to $2.60 with a midpoint of $2.57 and constant currency adjusted earnings per share growth of 12% to 15% up from 11% to 13% as previously guided.
Implicit in this guidance range is adjusted operating margin expansion of 30 basis points to 50 basis points.
Net interest expense and other is expected to be approximately $42 million to $44 million.
Our adjusted tax-rate is expected to be 21% with a flat diluted weighted average share count of approximately 113.5 million shares.
For the second quarter of 2015 we're forecasting reported revenues to be in the range of $550 million to $560 million representing approximately 7% constant currency revenue growth with organic revenue growth of 3% to 4%.
Adjusted earnings per share for the second quarter are expected to be in the range of $0.57 to $0.59 or 10% constant currency adjusted earnings per share growth at the midpoint.
This concludes my prepared remarks.
Whitley at this time we'd like to open up the call to questions.
Our first question comes from the line of Ross Muken with Evercore ISI.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon.
So maybe on the environmental business seemed like in general China had a pretty good quarter but we only had sort of the low single-digit growth.
So if we look at some of the culprits on that side of the business what are you pointing to and how is it how did it sort of trend over the course I guess of the quarter? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I would say on the environmental side first of all within China as you mentioned we saw probably within the Environmental mid-single and that was pretty good strength on the Environmental industrial side but we continue to see sort of slowing demand or challenging demand on the food side.
So China while it was up high-single digits for PerkinElmer was more mid-single digits on the Environmental side.
If you looked across more globally we saw good growth in the U.S.
sort of I would say low-single digit in Europe (20:18).
And think about it from a trending perspective what we saw was fairly stable demand through the quarters.
I wouldn't say it was necessarily improving through the quarter but fairly stable as we look to early Q2 here we're seeing a little bit of an uptick.
Got it.
And maybe Rob and Andy as you were thinking about the obviously the core underlying performance was quite good on EBIT and earnings.
The FX headwind obviously everyone's dealing with you guys took a lot of cost measures out last year.
You obviously have a pretty robust still balance sheet capability and as you were thinking about what measures you could do to kind of offset that given how well the rest of the business is performing how did you sort of weigh maybe trying to mitigate versus this is sort of the reality of the strong dollar? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I would say on the margin well obviously we're trying to be prudent with our expenditures but at the same time to the extent that we see opportunities to either innovate with our products or to expand the markets we're going to continue to invest.
As you saw in our financials R&amp;D was up.
That was our plan to increase R&amp;D this year.
So while I think we're cognizant of what's happening in the foreign exchange markets.
At the same time if we see strategic opportunities we're going to continue to focus on those and spend the money.
What Andy made some comments around was the indirect spend and we'll continue to focus and drive those.
So I would say the areas that are not customer facing the areas where we're not seeing opportunities to drive innovation in the marketplace we're going to try and be prudent on.
But I think for the strategic opportunities to increase the top line we're going to continue to invest.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Yeah.
Good afternoon guys.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi how are you doing? Hey.
Just wanted to start off with a little bit of the comments you made regarding new products.
Obviously you had a slew of them at Pittcon and you mentioned them on the call.
So I wonder if you could maybe quantify how much top line contribution you expect to see from new products? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I think in the beginning of the year we said probably something in the $30 million to $35 million range is what we thought we'd get from new products this year.
I think we're still on track to do that and maybe we'll do a little bit better.
But I would say that's the range that we're focused on for 2015.
Okay.
Got you.
And then on the gross margin line that was obviously pretty strong and just wondering if you could break that down a little bit.
Number one how much of the improvement year-on-year was due to mix? And then as part of that conversation was wondering how much FX actually held back gross margin this quarter? I imagine it would have been even better if it hadn't been for currency? Thanks.
Yeah.
Currency was about 30 basis points Isaac.
So without the impact of currency we would have been 100 basis points of improvement.
We were actually at 70 basis points on a post currency level.
I would say some of the efforts we had around supply chain were a piece of that and I would say that's probably a little less than half and the remainder would've been the positive mix we saw and to the diagnostics and informatics business as well.
Got it.
Thanks so much guys.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Leonard with Leerink.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
I have a working capital question.
It looks like the inventory days were higher than they've been in quite a long time was there any specific driver for that? Yeah.
There were a couple of things.
On the working capital – on the inventory side we've done – we've initiated a project around reducing transportation costs so there is a one-time pickup of the inventory.
It's really around ocean freight so we have a bit of an inventory build there.
There were some related as well to Perten.
But I think you should see from these levels those inventory turns should improve each quarter.
In addition we – as Rob mentioned we introduced a number of NPIs at Perten and there is a fairly meaningful amount of demo inventory required as we roll those out.
But I think overall we still – we still think we'll make some pretty decent traction on inventory.
I mean if you look at our receivables we made some tremendous progress there so it was able to offset some of that inventory but we still have work to do.
Got it.
And then my follow-up.
Can you quantify the anticipated benefit from the Waters collaboration? I know they made an attempt to quantify it on their call and I was wondering what you thought the flow through would be for PerkinElmer? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think when we look at 2015 we think for us it's going to have a relatively modest top-line improvement.
Now as we get past 2015 we're quite excited about the collaboration.
But keep in mind in most instances at least early on this is a substitution for us because we provide effectively our own HPLC today and we're going to swap that out for Waters.
So when you really think about that collaboration it was done I would say for sort of three reasons.
One is it really enables our customers to simplify their workflow by unifying their chromatography data on one platform which is Empower.
So going forward now when we sell our DC or LC it'll be sort of standardized on Empower.
The other was to sort of give our non-pharma customers access to UPLC from Waters.
And the third one was we – it allows us to focus our R&amp;D and software resources in the areas where we can better differentiate ourself.
So I think that's how we think about to get it (26:06).
Again it's hopefully a lot of benefit to our customers but I think in the relatively short-term here at least as we think about 2015 it's probably more of a substitution than it is incremental.
Got it.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line Dan Arias with Citigroup.
Please proceed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah hi.
Thanks for the question.
Rob just wanted to ask a little bit on OneSource.
You mentioned that that move was paying off already.
So I guess what is the expectation for growth there this year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think if you look at OneSource I think we continue to believe it's a sort of mid to high single digit grower but I think the opportunity we see is to really pull some of the products through because historically we've had I'll call it enterprise relationships with our customers at both the OneSource level and at the informatics level.
And I think what we're seeing now again it's early days but by combining OneSource and informatics and getting those enterprise level relationships we think there's an opportunity to pull through some of our products in the research.
So while we're always looking to try and drive more growth within OneSource I think the real opportunity from a growth perspective I think will be from more pull through from the product side.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then maybe on the blood screening business in China can you just sort of give an update on how that's tracking how are you finding pricing to be there? I think you're kind of positioned in between the high-end pharma guys and the local so has there been any attempt by the other players to sort of adjust based on what you're seeing in the market? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I would say first of all we continue to be very enthusiastic about that opportunity.
The tenders are being delayed a little bit.
So I would say the growth was strong in Q2 – or Q1 but we continue to see that be a significant ramp into the back half of the year.
As far as our competitive situation we continue to serve – win probably more than our fair share from the standpoint of – as you know there's five competitors.
We're probably winning at a 30% to 35% of the tenders.
And so we feel good about that and we think this could be a significant opportunity not only in the back half of 2015 but going into 2016 and later on.
With regards specifically to pricing we are not seeing dramatic pricing changes by either the international competitors or the local competitors for that matter.
So I think we still feel like we've got a great spot relative to as you pointed out being in between those two sort of competitors.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Miro Minkova with Stifel.
Please proceed.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Good afternoon guys.
Rob a question on guidance.
Your guidance for the full year maintaining the organic revenue growth outlook of mid single-digit implies perhaps a bit of an acceleration the second half relative to the first half.
Help us understand what is driving the acceleration – possible acceleration? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think the majority of that's coming from new products and – as I alluded to a little bit in the prepared comments particularly on the Environmental side we're pleased that at Pittcon and this is the last quarter we're able to introduce some 12 new products.
So I think that's really what we're attributing to the majority of the pickup in the back half.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks so much.
And on the newborn testing initiatives in India I think you mentioned you plan to screen about a million newborns.
Is this a change from your expectations and then maybe update us on where that screening initiative is? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I would say it's a little bit better than we thought going into the year and of course India presents a terrific opportunity from a newborn screening perspective.
27 million children or babies are born there every year.
And so we've had discussions with the national government there and we're cooperating in what I would call a sort of a private-public relationship or partnership where we're trying to encourage them at sort of the federal level but at the same time it's administered at the state level.
And so I would say historically we've had some small pilots.
But what we've seen in the first quarter is this ramp up to sort of a bigger volume.
And as I mentioned we're now probably going to do close to a million children so a huge opportunity out there.
But like anything this probably will take a little time to sort of ramp up but I would say relative to the beginning of the year this is probably better than we thought.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay sounds good.
And I'll get back in queue.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Great.
Your next question comes from the line of (31:09).
Please proceed.
Hi.
Thank you for taking the questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Congrats on a good start to the year.
So if we think – just sticking with the theme of the back half weighting are those new products that you introduced – are those actual orders in the funnel or is that in anticipation of building the funnel over the next couple months here? And when we think about the impact kind of flow through on margins again it seems like the back half EPS weighting on the updated guidance is a bit heavier in the back half.
How do you think about product mix kind of affecting the gross margin in the back half of the year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well first of all on your initial question those products were introduced at Pittcon a majority of those are shipping now or will be shipping in May several of them we started to take orders.
And so I would say we feel pretty good about the acceptance out in the marketplace and the ability to sort of drive that incremental growth in the back half of the year.
With regard to margins I think anytime you introduce new products clearly the objective is to put products out there that have better cost positions or better features for which we can hopefully get better gross margins or better price and clearly that's the intention with these products.
So I think some of that is the new product coming out with higher gross margins.
I think the other thing is just naturally if you look in the fourth quarter because our calendarization suggests that we've had higher volume.
Historically you will see higher operating margins in the fourth quarter of the year just because of the seasonality of our revenue.
So I think it's part of that and I think it's the new products.
Okay.
Great.
And then from a strategic perspective how are you thinking about the business into this year maybe a little bit more volatility we've heard some of your competitors saying things might be brightening up in terms of competition with some of the private investment firms in terms of looking at the M&amp;A funnel.
Are you guys in a mode where all options are on the table or things might be getting a little bit better or still looking at kind of strategic tuck-ins into the organization? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You know first of all I think we look at everything.
We look at all opportunities to sort of make PerkinElmer better.
I think generally we focused on smaller bolt-on acquisitions because quite frankly I think the probability of that happening is higher.
But quite frankly we will look at small deals we'll look at medium deals we'll look at large deals.
I just think as I said the probability of the smaller deals happening are probably higher.
Having said that I think there is – for a long period of time there has been a lot of competition in the marketplace and I think what we've historically said is for us to be able to successfully acquire and integrate deals that make sense for PerkinElmer and their shareholders is we've got to have good synergies and those synergies have to either be from a channel perspective or operations or technology or et cetera.
And so what we're generally looking at is acquisitions that are close to what we do today or adjacencies where we can leverage the current assets of PerkinElmer.
And I think in those instances we can be very competitive on price.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
I'll jump back into the queue.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Groberg with UBS.
Please proceed.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the question and congratulations on the quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Thanks.
Rob following up on your comments around Waters I mean and just if I'm interpreting it correctly you're kind of saying look we don't have as much scale specifically around chromatography they kind of have better scale at least on the liquid side you can better utilize your resources elsewhere where you have more differentiation.
I guess in that vein just how are you thinking about scale generally as far as PerkinElmer goes and given what you've seen happen in the industry? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think generally what we look at is to have scale in the relative markets in the way that our customers buy products and I think that's what we've been talking about for some period of time.
So for us it's scale is important relative market share is obviously very important but it's how do you define the market.
And I think in some instances when you look at how we define the market we think we have significant scale.
And so the obvious example is we don't define the market that we think – or do we think the market should be defined as diagnostic testing.
We think the market should be defined as newborn testing or prenatal testing because we believe that's how the customer buys.
And in those instances we have high.
So if you look at diagnostic testing we would have very small market.
If you look at newborn screening or newborn diagnostics we have very high market and similarly that's what we look at how the customer buys or in the case of people want to do imaging.
Again we have very high relative market share.
When we moved into some of the environmental or analytical instrument applications I think it was helpful to have some of these complementary detection capabilities.
Of course we feel we have got good scale in ICP or ICP-MS or spectroscopy et cetera.
But in the area of chromatography which I think is complementary in some instances to these techniques or technologies we didn't have a lot of scale.
And so therefore we thought the partnership with Waters made a lot of sense.
And again it's focused in a market segment or market segments that they don't participate in today.
So it's in the sort of more industrial and environmental end-markets.
Sure.
So would you expect kind of what you did with Waters to be a one-off or are you kind of focused on the areas as you define them you want to really be number one in those areas and could we expect other types of agreements like the one with Waters? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think generally what we look at is again based on how we define the relative markets we'd like to be one or a close number one.
If we feel at some point we can't get there then we probably should either exit it or find a better or different way to get there.
And then in case of liquid chromatography we didn't see a path to get there and so this was an alternative way of sort of continuing to participate in the marketplace.
I think that is how I would sort of describe it but as far as a one-off I would say there are many other opportunities to do this but I would say it's probably more sort of in the minority generally speaking we would prefer to get there organically.
Okay.
And if I could just one quick one on China again on the blood screening I think one of the opportunities that exist in China wasn't there something like 400 different blood banks or just a bunch of tenders and I think Andy you mentioned that they are moving now to more centralized purchasing.
Is that a tailwind or a headwind for you guys in that market? Thanks.
So that is really more of a timing headwind.
It's really not as far as our ability to catch those tenders it's really a neutral but just as far as how quickly those tenders are issued and approved that gets slowed by this change.
Okay.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Great.
Your next question comes from the line of Brandon Couillard with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon.
Andy you mentioned timing of expenses in the first quarter benefiting EPS can you elaborate on what those were and do those shift into 2Q now? Yeah it's in our guidance but it was basically continued hiring.
We have a number of positions both on the commercial side and the R&amp;D side we're continuing to ramp and we had forecasted that those would ramp a little bit quicker than they did.
We still expect to fill those as we move and we have been filling some of those thus far in the second quarter.
So I think that will normalize through the year and that additional cost is in our guidance.
And then in terms of the EPS guidance for the year Andy could you help me reconcile something? So it looks like the GAAP EPS outlook went up by $0.02 but the non-GAAP number came down I think $0.05 or so at the midpoint and the amortization anticipated for the year is looks like meaningfully lower.
Can you help me just bridge the delta on those components? Yeah.
Let me get back to you on that because I don't have that in front of me but I can get that to you very quickly.
Okay.
And then I guess any update in terms of the operating or free cash flow metrics for the year? Had you previously contemplated the pension payment in the first quarter? We had contemplated a portion of the pension.
We're still looking at $300 million for the year and we still feel confident in our ability to generate that type of cash flow.
So I think that's the overall metric hasn't change.
As I mentioned earlier we have some work to do around inventory.
I think that's going to be helpful.
I think we've got plans and leadership in place to do that.
So I think nothing has really changed overall.
And the pension funding itself we really like to stay at around 80% on a funding basis and that just gets us back to that kind of comfort zone on funding.
We don't have any more mandatory payments until late 2017 early 2018.
So we're – but we're just trying to make sure we're conservative in our estimates around pension costs.
Super.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Schenkel with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Hi hey.
Good afternoon guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon.
So I guess my first question is a follow up on Waters.
You've indicated that you expect Waters or the Waters deal to not meaningfully impact guidance because it's initially at least for this year it sounds like a substitution is how you phrased it I believe? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Our understanding is that this allows you to move a bit upstream with your product offering and the types of applied customers you are addressing in that channel.
If I remember correctly from a few days ago Waters guidance includes what sounds like about $20 million in revenue associated with this deal for the balance of the year.
When you kind of assume there is some sort of mark up here that would seem to translate into something like call it $22 million to $25 million in revenue for you guys.
If we're thinking about it the right way I guess what I'm wondering is there really that much revenue to substitute with overlapping products and how does this substitution impact margins? And I guess kind of the final part of the question is was this contemplated in original guidance or is this should we view this as a new development in the context of the full-year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Let me try and hit a couple of those.
So it was contemplated in the original guidance I mean this is something we have been in discussions with Waters and hopeful that we could get it sort of concluded before peak time which we were.
With regard to margins we think this is going to be probably neutral maybe a little helpful to margins and I think the reason for that is that as I mentioned in the prepared comments is from a gross margin perspective it's maybe neutral or a little lower but of course we can eliminate a fair amount of operating expenses associated with that.
So I talked about sort of R&amp;D that we spend today also software engineers that we have that are associated with our we have our own chromatography software.
So we think from an operating margin perspective it could be neutral to accretive to us largely because of the operating expenses that we can reduce as a result of not having to support both the software and the production and R&amp;D of the product.
With regard to the sort of how much incremental revenue is to us versus Waters it's really difficult for me to comment on Waters.
So I'll leave that up to them and I don't know if it's $20 million for 2015 or $20 million annualized but again that's – again I'll leave that to them.
I just I think when we look at the opportunity in 2015 and again I emphasize I think we're excited about the opportunity.
We just – I guess we're being somewhat cautious in sort of trying to build in a lot of revenue upside.
Now as we get into 2016 I think we are quite excited about the opportunity from the standpoint as you point we can go upstream a little bit particularly with the UPLC and selling more of our GC that will be tied to Empower but I think for 2015 right now we don't see this is a huge incremental.
Okay.
That's really helpful color.
Maybe just a couple quick ones on the quarter.
Obviously a really strong growth in operating margin quarter despite coming in at the lower end of your organic revenue growth guidance.
Can you comment on whether there was anything notable that benefited margin? One thing that's come up a little bit over the last few quarters is lumpiness in licensing revenue as we think about microfluidics and imaging anything notable as it compared to say Q4 or Q1 levels of last year? Well specifically on licenses actually that was a headwind for us in the quarter.
So that as I mentioned before certainly around gross around mix and the other items I think were the primary drivers.
And actually one other item I didn't mention was OneSource.
There was fairly significant improvement in OneSource gross margins from the first quarter of last year to the first quarter of this year.
If you look at or listen to an earlier question about have we done anything? We really tried to accelerate some of the initiatives around supply chain on the gross margin side and around the indirect spend so that we can reinvest back in R&amp;D and selling.
So I think we were particularly successful in the first quarter.
Hopefully that'll continue through the next three quarters but those were kind of the key drivers.
Okay.
That's great.
Thanks for taking the questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Brokmeier with Maxim Group.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
More on the Waters agreement just wondering you talked a little bit about moving upstream but I was curious in terms of geographies.
Do you see the U.S.
or China or what geographies do you see as being the greatest opportunity for you to sell into? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think we feel good sort of from a global geography.
I mean if you look at the distribution of our business clearly we've got strength in U.S.
and Europe and China.
So I think this is going to be hopefully helpful business across the globe.
So I don't think I would spike down in any particular region or geographic area where I think this is going to be helpful.
Okay.
And given the currency environment have you made any changes to your capital spending or operating expense changes and how easily can you make changes in the near and intermediate term? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think Andy alluded to a couple things.
I think we've accelerated some of our actions around trying to get after sort of indirect cost and supply chain.
But I would say generally speaking our approach has been let's continue to stay on plan relative to our investments particularly in the areas of growth.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Knight with Janney Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Hi guys this is actually Bryan Kipp on behalf of Paul.
Rob I just want to dig in a little bit into your research commentary.
I think that you said for the full year low single-digit growth and I'm just thinking in context to your commentary around OneSource and Opera Phenix if I just kind of do back of the envelope suggests that close to 50% of incremental could come from that 20% contribution on that side so what's kind of the underlying dynamics going on there? Is it just academic and government pressure or is it kind of a new product cycle you guys need to have or go through to kind of reignite growth there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think as we've talked about research in the past I think the thing to recognize is we've got a big radio chemical business that creates a fair amount of drag.
As we get into the back half of the year we did have a nice introduction of Opera Phenix in the back half.
We're going to cycle up against that now hopefully we'll continue to grow that.
And I would say the third area I would speak on when you're talking about research is Japan.
I mean we didn't talk a lot about Japan but clearly when I think about the first quarter the area that was and although we were at our sort of guidance range it was at the bottom end of the guidance range I would probably attribute that to a weaker Japan than we had expected.
I mean we would have forecasted Japan sort of flattish for the first half and it was down high single digits.
And so we're a little cautious about how quickly that returns.
I know the budget was recently approved here in April but again based on what we're seeing and also when we sell into Japan that's probably one of the areas where the currency change is impacting us strategically.
I would say if I was going to spike out one area where the strength of the dollar has been somewhat challenging from a strategic or a competitive perspective I would say Japan.
If you get Japan to kind of come back around I mean you can't control that I understand but and the currencies kind of stabilize can you get it back to the mid single-digit with your underlying portfolio or you think it kind of stays...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think we can.
And I think one of the things that we'll be able to hopefully if we do that it'll be because we'll get the traction on the OneSource informatics and pull through of the products.
I think that will be clear and then we continue to see good traction on the new products.
So if our goal is to get that up to single digits – mid single digits.
But I think for purposes of guidance we continue to sort of forecast it in the low single digits.
All right.
And I just one quick additional one.
Did you guys see any net benefit from extra days in the quarter? And kind of what pricing conversations are you having? Are you more skewed towards new products or are you able to get some pricing here with the FX volatility? We did not have any extra days in the quarter I think we communicated it on our January call that we would have extra days in the third quarter of this year.
But from a pricing perspective we continue to be able to get pricing specifically on the reagent consumable side it becomes a little tougher on the instrument side.
But I think overall it was fairly modest in the first quarter but we continue to try to get it wherever we can.
Appreciate it.
Thanks again guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Elliot with Baird.
Please proceed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks guys.
Just a follow up on OneSource.
Can you talk about the competitive environment there? I guess what are you seeing from a win rate or a retention perspective? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah well OneSource was strong in the quarter.
I mean one of the things that now clearly with the restatement of those answers you get pretty good transparency in what OneSource was doing.
But I think what you would see is that OneSource on sort of a currency neutral basis grew mid-teens.
And so clearly we think we're continuing to do well there.
We did have a couple wins from the standpoint of Gilead and Boehringer.
And so I think the competition continues to be tough and challenging but I think we continue to do well.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
And then Andy can you provide any color on the indirect spend initiative I guess how much are you forecasting this year in terms of improvement? And then is there opportunity on the direct side of spending? You talk about indirect a lot but how about on the direct side? Well that is actually the natural next step and we're – we've created a team to actually start to generate some efforts around the direct side which we do think that there is opportunity in.
I think on the indirect side we've looked for a $10 million plus savings year-over-year.
I think we're well on track for that hopefully we can exceed that but we've got dedicated resources dedicated purchasing people and I think we've got an organization that's really rallied around this because it really does allow us to reinvest back.
So I would say I feel as good if not better than I did going into the year on the indirect spend side and I think the additional opportunity as you mentioned is direct side so hopefully we'll have more to talk about that in the next couple of quarters.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Tycho Peterson with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hey thanks.
Can you comment on performance of the recent acquisitions Ceiba and Perten and are you still kind of assuming 7% to 8% growth for Perten for the year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we were very pleased with Perten.
We think the integration is going well.
Perten actually grew sort of low double-digits in the first quarter.
So we think they're well on track to probably exceed sort of the model we set out there and I think Andy mentioned the fact that we expect to probably do a little bit better than the $0.04 accretion that we talked about.
So I think things are going well with Perten and I think we continue to see more opportunities with the synergies between what Perten does and what PerkinElmer does.
So historically they've been a significant player within the grain area.
We see rolling out then to things like edible oil and a number of other areas where the combined competencies of the twp companies can be quite powerful in the marketplace.
And then just looking at some of the businesses medical imaging rebounded a little bit.
You guys have called out mid-single-digit organic growth.
I mean I feel like that business hasn't grown in a while.
How much of that was a comp issue versus potentially a recovery in the market? I think most of it Tycho was more of a comp issue.
I think it's obviously it's a fairly choppy market and I think second half they are saying some headwinds.
But overall if you look at – broadly at the market it's under some pressure but I still think we feel like we can have positive growth for the year in that business.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think the first quarter last year Tycho they were sort of flat to down slightly.
Yep.
And then just a little – lastly a general question on the informatics business.
I mean I'm trying to string together a couple points here but I think you've talked about the need to hire additional software folks and maybe that's taking a little bit longer.
We periodically get questions about just the fact that a lot of your software isn't up in the cloud and how do you kind of adapt? And do you need to kind of evolve faster on the software informatics side? And a third segment of that line of questioning you do obviously have a tomo product with Dexela I think maybe just talk about expectations for that for tomo synthesis.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All right.
Okay.
I didn't hear what you said on the third one.
Okay so with regard to the informatics idea I agree with you.
We've talked about the fact that we've got to get a cloud product with regard to our electronic notebook and quite frankly most of what we do.
We have a product right now out with the academic customers who are working on one I would call it sort of in process with regard to pharma.
So we continue to make progress on there and to Andy's point earlier we continue to look to hire software engineers to sort of accelerate.
That's an area where I think we clearly want to accelerate our spending from an R&amp;D and engineering standpoint because we continue to see significant opportunities within the informatics business I would say both to sort of drive more of historical PerkinElmer products but also to build out and continue to expand the core informatics capabilities and business.
So we'll continue to invest on that.
And the last question was on the tomo product.
And I think that's a relatively small product for us and we really haven't been pushing that tell you the truth.
Okay.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Zarak Khurshid with Wedbush.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good afternoon Rob Andy Tommy.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for taking the questions.
As we think about all the productivity enhancements ongoing and planned for this year Andy how impactful do you think they may be relative to the big productivity initiatives over the past few years? I would say the heavy lifting we did in 2013 and part of 2014 were probably the high watermarks.
But I would say we're probably in a – if you want to do a relative we're probably 70% of those types of levels.
It's just a different area that we're focused on whereas in 2013 and 2014 we were really looking at shrinking the footprint and rightsizing the organization.
This is really looking at spend and given we have the flexibility now to look at it on a corporate wide basis we see a lot of opportunities there.
But and I think it's opportunity that we'll see over the next – certainly a couple to three years as we start to move and as I mentioned earlier into the direct side as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Very helpful.
Thanks for that.
And then just a follow-on – a lot of questions today on the M&amp;A strategy what about divestitures? How do you think about kind of simplifying the business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I mean I think we were always challenging ourselves from the standpoint of the portfolio and whether the rightful owner of assets.
I guess my preference would be is – I'd like to sort of buy before we sell.
So if we can be successful with some sizable acquisitions I think we might look at a couple product line prunings but quite frankly when we look across the portfolio we think most of the things fit pretty well but like I said I don't know that I want to get smaller before I get bigger.
Inc.</span></strong> Makes sense.
Thanks.
And then just a follow-up on China.
Can you give us a rough sense for how large the Chinese infectious disease business can get and how much runway you think you have there over the next couple years? Thanks guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I think on the infectious disease side or is it newborn? Infectious disease right? I would say...
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think that can be a significant business for us and depending on the timeframe clearly north of $100 million.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed.
Great.
Good afternoon everyone.
This is actually Alex Nowak on for Bill.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon.
All right and to follow up to your – in follow up to your previous comment what are your Japanese research funding assumptions going forward? Are you still expecting flat growth – did you bring these down following the quarter? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think what we've got for the remainder of the year is flat and may even be actually a little negative in the second quarter quite frankly.
So I would say low-single and then sort of flattish in the back half.
Okay.
All right.
Excellent.
And then in U.S.
newborn screening you said that the birth rates were slowing.
Do you still see that there is – you can still continue your growth there with menu expansion? Or do you think this even could be like an uptick in Medicare coverage with the Affordable Care Act? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I just want to correct.
I don't know that we said it was slowing.
I mean we might have said it was slow single but I think for – at least what the data we look at says that the U.S.
birth rate is sort of stable but it's a sort of 1% to 2% range.
I don't know that we're seeing anything significantly slowing.
If we're talking specifically in the U.S.
I think the opportunity to grow there is to expand the menu and we've talked about kids in the past.
We continue to see that being adopted by states.
I think if you look out a year or two probably the next series of tests are probably around LSD but I would say for the next couple quarters I think the majority of the growth in newborn is going to come probably outside the U.S.
and probably specifically within newborn.
One of the areas we're actually quite excited about as I mentioned the fact that we got the China FDA approval of our GSP which is our sort of automated analyzer.
And I think what that does is two things for us.
One is it first of all allows us to take the number of tests today that are done manually and put them on automated platform.
And as we continue to get approval of the assays I think it will accelerate the ramp of the menu.
Second it starts to really differentiate us from the competition.
So I think we've talked about in the past that we have sort of 70% market share in China.
And most cases what we're competing against is local home brews or others that are doing manual.
We don't think – clearly there is nobody else who has a regulated or approved automated analyzer.
And so again as more and more of China moves to an automated which we think they will in order to get higher throughput it provides us a huge differentiated advantage and allows us to ramp screening much quicker.
Okay excellent.
And then real quick how big was the OneSource business in the quarter? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It was $29 million but...
$35 million.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> $35 million.
$35 million.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> $35 million.
$35 million.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Derik De Bruin with Bank of America please proceed.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Hi good afternoon.
Hi Derik.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Hey you talked about some contract wins in OneSource but is there anything coming up for renewal? I believe your Merck contract is coming up soon and just talk about sort of is there anything that we need to watch out for on the headlines going forward in that business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Derik I am not aware of any significant contracts that are coming up in 2015 so I don't – I mean in any given year we probably got some of that because I think as you know most of these are on a three-year cycle so there may be some small ones but I don't think there is anything significant.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And could you – just how big is your Japan business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think it's $50 million or so.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And I guess speaking of currencies some of your competitors had made some comments about customers losing some purchasing power because they didn't have enough cash basically to buy products and so things were delayed.
Did you see any of that in the quarter? No.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
Not that I'm aware of.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> And so Andy you talked about some of the expenses being delayed a little bit in the quarter so should we expect to see those expenses in Q1 going in Q2? They'll gradually go through Q2 and the balance of units.
It's really around hiring and at any point in time...
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
We're constantly hiring but I guess it'll be a slow ramp as we continue to bring the informatics and the R&amp;D resources on board.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And so Derik let me correct.
So the $50 million I gave you was sort of Human Health for PerkinElmer it's $80 million for Japan.
Sorry about that.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
Great.
And that was down – and that was down you said that was down high single digits correct? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> High single-digits yeah.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
Great.
Thank you very much.
That's helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Great.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Lawson with Mizuho.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi Andy.
Just long term where do you think margins can eventually go? Well I think on the operating margin front we've felt all along that we should have a two-handle in front of our operating margin.
And I think we've set a goal of getting to 20% plus in 2017.
I think with the volatility of currency it makes it a bit tougher.
It's still our goal.
But I would say in that timeframe or maybe just slightly longer we still see our way to doing that.
And I think we have plans in place FX aside that will help continue to improve our margin.
So I don't think there is anything structural that would keep us from hitting those types of goals.
Operator? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Peter did we lose you? Your next question comes from the line of Steve Willoughby of Cleveland Research.
Please proceed.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
A lot of them have been asked but two things.
First on Perten can you discuss if there is any seasonality in that business as the revenue there looked a little bit lighter than I was expecting? And then just I guess if you could also reconcile the 2% addition of revenue from acquisition versus the 3% that's shown in the latter part of your press release? And then I have one follow-up.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
So I'll only take the first one and I'll give the second one to Andy.
So clearly there is seasonality in Perten and to your point when we looked historically the first quarter is light second quarter starts to pick up a little bit but their real strong quarter is the third quarter.
And it ties to the sort of harvest season.
So clearly there is some cyclicality.
And that's both on the revenue side and clearly on the profitability side as well.
Yeah the only difference I think on the reconciliation and I'll double check for you Steve but there is some purchase accounting adjustments in the numbers as well as the revenues that roll up to that 3% so there could be some rounding in there but I'll double check that and get back to you.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then I guess just my other follow-up and I apologize if you already discussed this topic was just on the in vivo imaging business and how that's performing.
I know that there are some patents that rolled off last year and if you guys had any color or commentary on that would be helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think on the product basis that did well this quarter and our expectation is for that to continue to do well.
As you mentioned there will be there was some patents that rolled or there's some royalties that rolled-off in the first quarter there'll continue to be some that'll create a headwind in the second quarter and then by the third quarter they are gone effectively.
Right because we anniversary the patents the patents were expired in the middle of last year.
So if you look at just the product I think it continues to do well sort of high single digits.
There are no further questions in queue.
I will now turn the call over to Rob Friel for closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Great.
So first of all thanks for all your questions and in closing let me just reiterate that we feel very good about the accomplishments in the first quarter and believe we are well positioned to deliver another strong year for PerkinElmer.
So thanks for joining us for the call and have a great evening.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2015 PerkinElmer Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jasmine and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Tommy Thomas Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Jasmine.
Good afternoon and welcome to the PerkinElmer second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
With me in the call are Rob Friel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Wilson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
If you have not received a copy of our earnings press release you may get one from the Investors section of our website at www.perkinelmer.com.
Please note this call is being webcast live and will be archived on our website until August 13 2015.
Before we begin we need to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor statements that we have outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings.
Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views only as of today.
We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements in the future even if our estimates change.
So you should not rely on any of today’s forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date after today.
During this call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available as an attachment to our earnings press release.
To the extent we use non-GAAP financial measures during the call that are not reconciled to GAAP in that attachment we will provide reconciliations promptly.
I’m now pleased to introduce the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PerkinElmer Rob Friel.
Rob? Thanks Tommy.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
I’m pleased to report we deliver strong quarter financially achieving good growth on the top-line and continuing to expand both growth and operating margins enabling us to exceed the high-end of both our revenue and EPS guidance range.
In addition we may notable progress against our operational and strategies priorities positioning us to deliver on our longer term objectives of accelerating revenue growth and profitability.
While Andy will provide details on our financial performance on a constant currency basis revenue grew 8% consistent of 4% organic growth and 4% from recent acquisitions while our adjusted earnings per share grew 12%.
During the first half of the year adjusted operating margins have increased 90 basis points and adjusted EPS is up 15% both on a constant currency basis against this factor of the strong financial results I would like to briefly discuss some of the highlights from the quarter as well as touch on a few areas of potential macroeconomic headwinds.
First I’d like to emphasize the growth of our new products.
We continue to be very pleased with our Research &amp; Development efforts as investments made over last year or so are starting to manifest in a number of successful new products.
During the first year for the year we increased R&amp;D spending by over 10% on a constant currency basis and continue to believe driving innovation into the market will be a key component through accelerating our longer term growth.
In particular many of our recently introduced products within the research market are gaining traction including the upper Phoenix high content imager and our labchip touch Microfluidics offering for NGS sample prep which resulted in our research business growing high single digits last quarter.
In addition to the growth of new product our OneSource services business once again delivered very strong results.
Our former customers continue to view OneSource as a trusted partner capable of meeting their needs for a wide range of services from instrument maintenance asset management or lab relocation to scientific and lab IT consulting services.
Our growth in pharma and biotech has also been boosted by our decision early in the year to integrate onesource and a room for nice offerings into our research sales organization.
This allows us to more effectively deliver complete innovative solutions tailored to the specific needs of our customers while building even stronger longer term customer relationships.
During the second quarter we grew revenue from our top 20 global pharma and biotech accounts double-digit versus the second quarter of last year and the recent announcement of our strategic collaboration with Albany Molecular Research is a prime example of the early success from this approach.
PrekinElmer will be providing scientists working in AMRI's drug discovery center at the Buffalo Medical Innovation &amp; Commercialization Hub with solutions to support cutting edge research.
Most importantly these offerings scientists working in AMRI's drug discovery center at the buffalo medical innovation and commercialization up with solutions to support cutting edge research.
Most importantly these offerings span the breadth of our capabilities and include cellular imaging solutions analytical and visualization software and onsite technical and service support.
Another highlight in the quarter was a continued global expansion of our diagnostics business which achieved key milestone in supporting the rapid adoption of newborn screening and emerging markets.
As you may recall four years ago we helped Egypt establish the world's largest newborn screening lab and we are pleased with the recent decision to expand the screening menu to include PKU testing for over 2 million birth each year.
Also during the quarter we continue to see strong demand in China for our newborn screening offering and we experienced sequentially growth in our Haoyuan blood screening business in China.
We are closely tracking order rates as government mandates for nucleic acid blood testing take effect and we continue to believe we are well positioned to capture a significant share of this market.
On the environmental health side all of our new products introduced at Pittcon are now in the marketplace and coaster new manage is encouraging.
In addition our ICP-MS has experienced good growth and demand remains high for our unique metal particle detection solution and multi element analysts capability.
Furthermore the integration of Perten is effectively complete and our consolidated food analysis offerings are capturing greater mindshare with customers in this attractive segment.
While we are excited about our myriad of opportunities we see going forward we are mindful of the macroeconomic environment that while consistent with our outlook from the beginning of the year still presents some challenges and concerns.
In China while we continue to expect double-digit growth from our diagnostics offerings ordering patterns with environmental end market and government tenders continue to be choppy.
Additionally Japan's academic funding environment has also become difficult to predict and Europe remained soft but stable as it wrestles with the mixed economic outlook and the implications from a Greek bailout.
The macro concerns aside I remain confident in our ability to executive and drive both revenue growth in margin expansion in the second half.
Therefore looking at our guidance we are reconfirming our previously stated guidance of mid-single organic growth for the full year and modestly raising the bottom end so that our adjusted earnings per share guidance is now $2.55 to $2.60 which represents 13% to 15% constant currency adjusted earnings per share growth.
I would now like to turn the call over to Andy.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon everyone.
Consistent with previous quarters I will provide some additional color on our end markets provide a financial summary of our second quarter results and details around our third quarter and full year 2015 guidance.
Given the impact of foreign currency on the comparability of our results I will once again provide much of my commentary on a constant currency basis in order to better portrait the results of the year.
As Rob mentioned we reported 8% constant currency revenue growth and 4% organic revenue growth in the quarter with foreign exchange representing a headwind of approximately 7%.
Adjusted revenues were 564 million in the second quarter as compared to 557 million in the same period a year ago exceeding the high-end of our guidance revenue range driven by broad based demand.
Second quarter adjusted earnings per share was $0.60 up 12% on a constant currency basis from $0.59 in the comparable period a year ago.
Our quarterly results were $0.02 about the mid-point of our guidance range driven by favorable mix and continued operating leverage.
Looking at our geographic results globally we experienced mid-single digit organic revenue growth across all major geographies in end market.
We saw improved results in Europe and stable demand in China where we continue to be encouraged by the resiliency of our serve markets.
As to our operating results second quarter adjusted gross margin were 47% up 50 basis points on a constant currency basis driven primarily by volume leverage mix and productivity gains.
Second quarter adjusted SG&amp;A was 24.2% 50 basis points below the same period a year ago the result have continued operating leverage from our indirect spend initiatives.
Research &amp; Development spending in the second quarter as a percentage of revenue was up 40 basis points as compared to the same period a year ago driven by continued investments and innovative new product development and incremental investments at Perten.
We expect full year R&amp;D spending to increase over 2014 levels by 30 to 50 basis points.
Overall we were pleased with our operational performance in the second quarter as we expanded our constant currency adjusted operating margins over 50 basis points.
For the first half of 2015 constant currency adjusted operating margins have expanded approximately 90 basis points.
Net interest and other expense in the second quarter was approximately $11 million up from 9 million in the comparable period a year ago driven primarily by the impact of foreign currency.
Our adjusted tax rate for the quarter was approximately 20% and we expect our adjusted tax rate for the full year to be approximately 21%.
Switching to the segments.
Second quarter organic revenues and our Human Health business increased approximately 5% Environmental Health organic revenues grew approximately 3%.
From an end market perspective our Human Health business represented approximately 61% of reported revenue in the quarter with diagnostics contributing 28% segment revenue and research generating 33% of segment revenue.
Organic revenue growth from our diagnostics business increased mid-single digit despite a high-single-digits comparison in the second quarter last year.
Our results were driven by strength in our newborn and infectious disease testing solutions which continue to see strong uptake throughout emerging markets offset by a low-single digit organic decline in medical imaging due to difficult prior year comparisons and customer ordering patterns.
While we are really encouraged by the broad acceptance of our new [indiscernible] offerings we believe the second half will remain challenging for medical imaging.
We experienced a strong performance in China growing double digits in the quarter during part to the continued ramp of our Haoyuan business.
We believe that the conversion of a ELISA base testing to nucleic acid testing for the screening of blood represents a significant opportunity for PerkinElmer.
While we are somewhat more optimistic on our outlook for the second half of 2015 as the government begins to enforce regulations to better secure the China’s domestic blood supply.
Organic revenue and our research business grew high-single-digits in the second quarter driven by ongoing success from our recent new product launches including the Opera Phenix strengths from our automation systems offerings strong growth in OneSource multi-vendor services and someone easier prior year comparison.
As Rob mentioned we are pleased with the early success from our new go-to-market strategy and research and the increased traction we started to see with our Pharmaceutical and biotech customers.
We are seeing an improvement in global academic and government end markets with Japan being the exception while pharma and biotech remain stable.
We continue to expect research sales to grow low-single digit for the year primarily impacted by the steep declines in Japan.
Moving to our Environmental Health business which represent approximately 39% of reported revenue in the quarter revenues grew 3% organically in line with our expectations.
Our second quarter reported results benefited from increased demand in an around environmental and through the applications driven to a large extent by success from our inorganic and chrom offering in the addition of Perten.
We’re pleased to report that Perten had a solid quarter as their sale cycle closely follows the harvesting season we expect sales and profitability to increase sequentially in the third quarter as a result of these seasonality.
Turning to balance sheet we finish the second quarter which is under 1 billion of debt and approximately 200 million of cash.
We exit the quarter with a debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.2 times and a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 1.8 times.
Turning to cash flow we have a strong quarter with adjusted operating cash flow from continuing operations are 71 million versus 54 million in 2014.
Despite higher working capital primarily result of the timing of additional inventory requirements supporting our new product introductions.
As we get to the seasonally stronger second half we expect inventory levels to moderate in our working capital metrics to improve.
Looking ahead to the third quarter in the balance of the year we believe we’re well positioned to deliver a solid operational performance.
As we exit the second quarter and move into the second half of 2015 we’re mindful of the mix macroeconomic picture.
Our dollar strength is continuing to present modest headwinds and emerging markets specifically South America and parts of Asia while [indiscernible] demand continue to be mixed in Japan and China.
As a result we expect reported revenues for the year to begin the range of 2.25 billion or 2.3 billion which represents approximately 7% constant currency growth at the mid-point.
Our guidance continues to reflect organic revenue growth from approximately 3% to 5%.
We’re tightening our adjusted earnings per share guidance for 2015 to be in a range of $2.55 to $2.60 with a mid-point of approximately $2.57 which represents constant currency earnings per share growth as 13% to 15%.
Implicit in this guidance range is adjusted operating margin expansion of 30 to 50 basis points.
Net interest expense is expected to be approximately $42 to $44 million and our adjusted tax-rate is expected to be 21% with a flat weighted average share count of approximately 113.5 million shares.
For the third quarter we're forecasting reported revenues to be in the range of $550 million to $560 million which represents approximately 7% constant currency revenue growth and organic revenue growth of 4% to 5%.
Adjusted earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $0.58 to $0.60 which represents 12% constant currency adjusted earnings growth at the midpoint.
This concludes my prepared remarks.
Operator at this time we’d like to open up the call to questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
And our first question comes from the line of Dan Arias from Citigroup.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon guys.
I want to talk a little bit about China as we just take as to little bit of what you saw on the environmental side and then on the blood screening side of things it sounds like things are picking up there I just point that you are thinking that you actually will have all of the donated blood in China tested molecular I mean as you assumption that compliance does go to a 100? I think our view is it go to 100 but its probably going to take 18 months to two years to get fully implemented.
As you know the law was suppose to be effective at the first of this year but I think our view its taken some time to get all the labs setup to be able to do that and so I would say the enforcement is fairly lacks but I would say probably late ’16 is our best guess of when that occur and probably what you will see is it will occur first on the east coast and you will see it move it across to the west.
But we’re starting to see as I think if we have mentioned on the last call we saw the move from sort of the regional governments to the federal government and while we think that's delayed it a bit in the implementation which you will see is bigger tender and we’re starting to see that coming out and as sort of mentioned in the prepared remarks we feel good about our ability to win share there.
With regard to it sort of the border China I would say first all we continue to believe that both access to healthcare and the clean water and food will be high priorities and continue to strong organic growth so I would say we continue to feel like high single-digits probably make sense for us for 2015 and we just go buy end market for us diagnostics I think Andy talked about this continue to be strong we saw good double-digit growth in diagnostic supported by [audio gap] three pieces of the business newborn infectious disease and blood screening.
On a research side also pretty good growth there and it was sort of mid-single maybe little bit better than that and environmental was up low single and what we saw was really almost a tale of two cities.
In the area food and environmental we saw strong growth sort of mid-teens and in the area of sort of more industrial we actually saw some headwinds there from the stand-point that they are -- our business there was not significant decline in the quarter.
So we just sort of put really together you saw environmental in the sort of low single-digit.
Okay.
That's great color appreciate that.
And then Andy on the expense line if I remember correctly I think you are kind of optimistic about the ability to drive some savings on the indirect spending side of things this year are you realizing the level that you are hoping there and I guess when you look at the back half of the year to the extent that you are seeing in those savings are you more likely to invest those or might you let those flow through? Thanks.
Sure well I think half way through the year I feel like we’re on track we were looking at $10 million boggy year-over-year.
We aggregated the first half at 6 million I think we’re started to gain some momentum the roll out is now global and we’re seeing a fairly significant uptake with the organization around it we are spending a lot of time now on upside services and I think what you are going to see is the impact of that not only on the expense side but you should start to see on the working capital side because I think if you look at our payables we saw little improvement in accounts payables and part of that's due to our renegotiation some contracts with vendors as part of this indirect spin process.
So I think we feel like that we’re pretty much on track I would say.
And our next question comes from the line of Brandon Couillard from Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Hi [indiscernible] Will you give us an update on the M&amp;A pipeline? How are you thinking about your capital deployment priorities here with the balance sheet position under two turns of net leverage? Thank you first of all we feel good about the pipeline I think our hope and expectation is -- we able to do something roughly toward the end of the year.
It’s always difficult to predict those types of things but I think we feel like we will be able to put some capital to use here on the M&amp;A which I would say we have a preferences deployed in that matter but if we find ourselves in a situation where we are unable to do that for let say for a period of time then we got to probably do share buybacks.
Thanks very helpful and we give an update on the water partnership how is that initial rollup progressing and do you soon vision that being roughly mutual to net revenues for the year? Yes we mentioned last quarter I mean water partnership I really think that is more of a longer term strategic move I think is a number of reasons to do that one was first of all enable our partners to simply their workflow around sort of one software which is in power it allows us to focus our resources in areas where we can be more differentiated and hopefully it allows us to drive some incremental revenue by first of all supplying waters LC products to some of our customers maybe driving more incremental products by allowing us to package arranges with our customers where there is multiple analytical techniques and also was getting GC on in power I think there is an opportunity to hope for the -- to sell more into the pharmaceutical industry.
Having said that in the short term there is some investment there is clearly some disruption there is training required of the sales people so as I think we mentioned last quarter we don't really expect to see much of an impact in 2015 and really look towards ‘16 and post to really drive some incremental revenue growth.
And our next question comes from the line of Ross Muken with Evercore ISI.
Please proceed.
You spend a lot of time on sort of the macro and you are cautionary and it is helpful because it’s obviously something more or less look at broader spectrum and focus but was there anything pasting in the business whether is in China or elsewhere that gave you a bit caution or maybe in some of the additional industrial markets or is it just sort of recognition of all the data that we’ve look at and now one into coming ahead of yourselves given some of those volatility standpoints? Well I would say those are couple of things we sort of mentioned affect Japan still seems to be difficult to predict on the academic funding side.
Well the budgets been improved our experience has been that’s been sort of spotty in challenging.
So well it’s a not a big part of our business it’s something that we’re a little cautious about.
I’d say the other area that we’re cautious about is on the medical imaging side and we’re seeing some of the revenue challenge is there particularly in the back half.
So that was other two areas that I would say we’re little concern.
The medical imaging is probably not macro it’s probably more customer ordering patterns.
But I would say on the Japanese side that’s macro indicator.
And I would say the other one I would probably put out or again small for us but obviously the economic condition in Brazil is challenging.
So those are two I would expect on the emerging markets that we’re just looking at order and patterns we’re little concern about.
And on the research side if you had to tease out boxes versus reagents versus services anecdotally how would you feel about those three buckets? Well I would say we were pleasantly surprised on the box side.
I mentioned some of the new products but if you look at our cellular imaging the microfluidics and automation we saw very strong growth there.
So we are pleased with that service also did well OneSource at a strong quarter and I would say the reagents was just sort of laagered in the quarter.
And Andy just remind us days impact in Q3 I talk that was where you guys pickup quite a bit of volume or at least the extra week.
How do we think about that in the context that the core guide? I think that first half is very hard to predict exactly what the impact of that’s going to be I mean what happens every six years.
And I would say its factor into our guidance I think that you look at the mix of our revenue a lot of it’s not impact of other days.
So I would say that in my opinion it’s in the numbers it maybe a percent or so.
But if we do better than that obviously we’re not going to be engage by our existing guidance.
See in our opinion there is a lot of debate on this internally is any point we do this every six year.
So I would say this is under core competency I was trying to predict what the impact will be.
But our viewer is even when you look at our reagent business.
A lot of our business is in sort of daily or weekly orders.
Even though is look at the newborn screening side it sort of bundle purchases.
So I would say we’re enabling we’ll be conservative year but we’re assuming that we’re not going to see a significant pick-up from the additional days particular when you look at the how they fall within the calendar.
And our next question comes from the line of Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed.
Just a question for you I guess going back to Japan.
You mentioned couple of times in the call it’s obviously a pretty difficult research environment to predict.
So I guess two part question one I seen the guidance assumes some ongoing challenges there? And then I guess second piece of that is I guess how you thinking about the longer term here are you inherently assuming that we should be some release the fund to bounce back in 2016? So I would say the answer your first question is yes.
We’ve assume fairly modest revenue for Japan for the remainder of the year.
And I would say beyond 2015 will just sort of assess there when we get there.
I mean is it fair assumption to say that some point the funds will be released and maybe we’ll see a catch up.
But I guess we’ll just sort of call that as we get in the ’16 but our assumptions for the remainder of ’15 is that we’ll continue to see challenges and we’ve got basically no growth assumes for the remainder of the year.
And then secondly I guess back to newborn screening in China.
Just help us think a little bit about I guess from a parameters of that growth.
Is this still largely initial adoption or are you seeing any sort of menu expansion maybe in some of the wealth your coastal areas? So I would say it’s a little bit of both.
I mentioned this quarter that we got our GSP which is are automated platform certified by CFDA.
And I think that’s allowing us to obviously sell more those and penetrate by allowing in automated platform it’s allowing some of the areas within China to expand our menu.
And so it’s a combination of the menu expansion as well as adoption.
But I would tell you right now is that China is probably close to 85% adopted so we have been pleased to see that good portion of the children in China now been screened.
And our next question comes from the line of Doug Schenkel with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
My first question is just I guess a follow up on the macroeconomic dynamics in China and Japan that you have talked about and have come up a bit in the Q&amp;A just to be clear have you changed what you embedded into guidance for growth in these markets? And if so what are the offsets? I would say China no; Japan yes.
And I would say the offsets have been a little bit on the pharmaceutical and research side.
And we have seen clearly some growth there and again some of that is I think new products and we believe our execution within the combined entity now some of that is clearly a stronger market.
So I would the strength on the research side is offsetting some softness in Japan and Brazil.
But again just to reiterate Japan for us is probably going to be somewhere around 2% to 3% of revenue.
So it's not a huge number.
Okay.
And then this incremental and sovereignty is the right way to describe it on the macroeconomic backdrop.
Does it impact how you think about spending heading into Q3 hold back a little bit or is it really business as usual? No I think it's been usual I mean if we look at the half I mean we feel pretty good about where we are right now I mean the organic growth is particularly if you look at Q2 came in a little bit at the high side.
We are looking at a backhit that we feel pretty good about we are getting good traction in the new products.
So I think we are still moving forward from an investment perspective and we monitor it as we see bookings from it during the quarter.
And our next question comes from the line of Dane Leone of BPIG.
Please proceed.
Thank you for taking the question.
I just want to maybe get some more color in terms of the gross margin line for the quarter.
I understand FX may have been a little bit more but usually you guys are kind of flattish 1Q to 2Q I guess anything kind of puts and takes in terms of what's maybe depressing that a little bit and expectations for the back-half? I think if you look at it on a constant currency basis we were 50 basis points which is a little bit more than we have seen historically a large piece of that some productivity initiatives we put in place some of those items supply chain we have talked about that before.
We are starting to see some traction there.
And that was enough to offset basically inflation in a slightly non-GAAP mix.
So I think we feel pretty good about our ability to sustain it going forward as we continue to get traction with some of these initiatives.
And then some of those same people are working at initiatives around the SG&amp;A piece.
So we hope to drive productivity improvement on both groups and operating margin.
Okay.
And just want to clarify the geographical comments.
You said I think broadly mid single digits across everywhere.
Is there any kind of more - color you could provide Americas versus EU versus APAC? Well I mean place that we saw sort of across the globe is I think when you talked about all the regions sort of in the 4% to 5% range which was great from an organic perspective maybe just to give you some color inside that if you look we are seeing Asia but if you talk about China Indian career was strong they were double-digit as well Japan obviously was within we talked about that.
And so I would say within the U.S.
we saw a good growth on the research side as sort of alluded to that.
But again it was pretty broad based.
And our next question comes from the line of Steve Veechow with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Two verifying points for me.
One on the office transition I am curious are you seeing any impact on the transition on the existing chromatography business you are working through anything there.
And then second question for me is actually on - what are you seeing in terms of IP licensing trends there? Thanks.
So on a chromatography side I guess I -- liquid chromatography side actually is a headwind in the quarter because you can imagine as we transition over the ability to continue to sell on the chromatography is challenging so if anything it was a little bit of a headwind on the gas chromatography side we do expect in the future to be able to hopefully sell some incremental products there but I would say not noticeable in future.
So again if your overall the transition in a short term is going to be a little bit of a headwind but obviously we think it won’t it makes a lot of sense and hope we drive some good incremental revenues as well as I think its roughly it will be helpful from our customer perspective.
I think you also see a little bit of the issue in working capital we’ve seen as increased inventory and as I explained some of the new products this would be a part of that as we start to build the channel with some of the new LCs.
On caliper side and I think as we talked about this we continue to see a little bit of a headwind every quarter at some of those royalties roll off and I think in this quarter as well there is a little bit of headwind of a couple of million dollars and that will probably continue to probably this year maybe third quarter this year.
And our next question comes from the line of Dan Leonard from Leerink.
Please proceed.
So I have a follow-up on inventory I appreciate the commentary on new products sales I’m curious in the first quarter I think you called supply chain effort I think the driver have increase the inventory and I’m wonder if you can give us an update on those efforts? No it was not supply chain effort it was actually it was the new product launches that we put out it at Pittcon then demo inventory and the build around that what I called out on a first quarter I believe was around Ocean freight.
And that ocean freight is the build of inventory that basically stay but it happened in the first quarter so that -- and that allows us to reduce our overall freight cost so I think from a P&amp;L perspective it's a good thing but there is a pickup of inventory as you put the stuff and ship it overseas.
Okay.
Understood and then my follow-up question do you have any update on the long term growth outlook from medical imaging it seems like it has been lumpy for a couple of years now? I think our view as -- that's a business that shouldn’t probably grow mid single-digits when we look at the sort of adoption rate of digital and x-ray and then the growth prospects with our CMOS business I think unfortunately we’ve had a situation where some of our customers most notably of -- so built some inventory and start work out off a little bit as you know this is the one business in PerkinElmer really the only business in PerkinElmer where we’re component supplier as compared to sort of an end system supplier so we’re at a little bit of the mercy of the customers and sort of how well they are able to sort of predict their end market demand and so I think that's why you see some of these lumpiness orders in hindsight they are artificially strong because our customers are sort of building inventory and then we have to work some of that off and so I agree with you its clearly more lumpy than we would like I think the underlying market is probably not as lumpy as that but again being a component supplier it makes a little challenging.
And our next question comes from the line of Paul Knight with Janney Montgomery.
Please proceed.
Hi Rob and Andy and Tommy.
Congratulations what I’m sure was not an easy operating environment I think Dan had touched on the environmental side and the operating margin you are posting that was 13% what are you shooting for in that business in a normalized environment? Paul I mean it depends the time horizon we’re talking about here but I think ultimately we like to see this business get up and 17% 18% obviously that's going to take some time to do that but we look at the opportunities within this business and I think one of the big drivers will be and we’ve talked about this in the past as we’ve got a get a greater consumable component to the business and something that the team is working on but I think for us to those types of operating margins it will take a better mix between instruments and consumables.
Can you talk about consumables in service Cross Lab growth was [what again] and is it M&amp;A or what you want to do on the consumable side Rob? Yes so one source was up double-digits in the teens we continue to see good progress there and I will be like to do is trying to pull in more consumables that are supportive of our instruments in some cases may you have to be on others but I think because we have the one source engineers in the lab the ability that sell consumables present some opportunities for us and so some of that organically but I think a lot of we’ll have to be done inorganically.
And our next question comes from the line of Miro Minkova from Stifel.
Please proceed.
Let me start with the environmental health products do you have announced that Pittcon and that you are rolling out maybe tell us or help us understand was there any benefits from these products in the quarter that you just reported and when might we see it and what are you expecting for the back half of the year? Yes I would see in the most recent Q2 there is minimal benefit on the environmental side most of the new products were the ones that were launch late ‘14 early ‘15 on the human health side and we’re starting to see some good traction in this you can appreciate a lot of times when you come out with these new products it will take a quarter or two to really get some traction in the market place.
So minimal impact in Q2 I think you will see the majority in the back half what we’ve said with new products for the full year it was [indiscernible] made it in the 30 to $35 million impact with all company I think we feel very good about that and just expect will be at high end and maybe even higher than that and so rather get into specific products I would just say we continue to feel very good about the progress and I would say we’ve not be surprised to do better than hop into the range here.
Sounds good and the medical imaging business is going back to the question asked by Dan earlier can you help us understand do you need this in your portfolio and how does it actually fit in with the rest of what PerkinElmer does? Well I think when you think about imaging is an important component of what we do so if you think about it sort of high level where I think about PerkinElmer we take samples we do take in analysis and then we provide answers and knowledge and so anything we can do to continue to drive our capabilities around the ability to [indiscernible] image I think its helpful and so leveraging that capability across as many end markets as possible I think its helpful.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Hi guys thanks for the question its Joe in for Isaac.
Just back to the macro and maybe just focusing on Europe can you just talk about what’s the big thing your expectations for the region for the second half of the year? I think when we went into the year we saw that and Environmental was up low single-digits and we saw little bit of improvement here relative to that in the second quarter.
So what our expectation in the back half is similar to what we saw so to low single.
Great thanks and then maybe just back to the China diagnostics market can you maybe parsed out the growth between the newborn and screening and over the contrition from blood screening that drove that double-digit number and then maybe how we should be thinking about that on a go forward? I mean what I would say is all three components in China did very well I mean if you look at the growth rate I mean clearly the blood screening is growing much faster but its all of a very low base I don't know how meaningful that is but I would just say if when you look at double-digit growth in China you see that across all components.
So its again fairly broad based.
And our next question comes from the line of Derik De Bruin from Bank of America.
Please proceed.
A lot of my questions have been answered so I'm going to ask some weird ones so bear with me.
So the -- I was at the AAC Speed conference earlier this week and I was struck by the number of Asian and Chinese diagnostic companies that were there.
What is the landscape for -- in the blood screening market? And also for your other products that you sell? I'm just curious -- you talk about competing for large tenders are you treated as a foreign company even though you have a Chinese business? Is there some potential bias against you given the number of Chinese companies that are there? I'm just wondering are you at a disadvantage because you are not local or do they view you as local? So specifically with blood screening there have been five companies that have been approved by the Chinese government that can provide products for new clinic asset blood screening.
Two of them are international and three of them are considered local Chinese.
We are considered one of the local Chinese because we ended this business through the acquisition of a Chinese company.
One of the things we actually had some discussions with the government officials at the time with the acquisition that was clear that we will be treated as a local Chinese company.
Because again what there I think most interested in is employment and because the products are developed in Made in China and obviously with Chinese employees I think that’s my sense is that’s why we get the designation as we go.
And you’re talking about moving to molecular screening.
I’m just curious is that going across other segment with the diagnostic market for example are you seeing a greater push for NIPT using molecular in China? And I’m just curious also just on the NIPT in general or I just on the newborn business in general.
Are you seen any impact from NIPT screening going on in the states? So I would say in the newborn side no.
We’re not seen much of push there.
I think in the NIPT I think still challenging from a cost perspective so you’re not seeing huge adoption.
However we do believe that the NIPT market will be very attractive in China eventually because there has not been a very large biochemical screening business.
So consequently they don’t need to sort of swap so they skip generation of products.
And so we do think once the costs it’s down to an acceptable level within China we think that’s going to be an attractive market.
And our next question comes from the line of Steve Willoughby from Cleveland Research.
Please proceed.
I have a couple of here quick one for you.
First Andy what are your assumptions now as a relates to FX on both the top and bottom-lines? No change from the guidance we provided at the end of the first quarter.
The other mix and the rates are pretty much inline.
So we’re sticking with the $0.23 of impact that we talked about in the first quarter.
And then secondly I know in the past couple of quarters there has been some talk about which start expecting some increase in R&amp;D spending.
And why was up modestly versus what you spend in the first quarter I’m sure FX has some impact on that.
Can you just maybe provide a little bit more color as a relates to your expectations and increasing R&amp;D spend? I think I mentioned so if you look on a constant currency basis we’re about little over 10% up for the year.
And our goal is eventually get R&amp;D to be about 6% of revenue.
And so we’ll look it sort of move that up depending on how we feel about revenue and profitability.
But that’s our goal our goal is get up to 6% of revenue and then when you consider effect it service is about 25% that would take us to about 7.5% on product and we think that’s probably the right level.
It varies a little bit by – it varies in some cases a lot by business and obviously application but we think for PerkinElmer a sort of awaited average of 7.5% on product is probably good level.
And our next question comes from the line of Jeff Elliott from Robert W.
Baird.
Please proceed.
First question is on OneSource.
You had some nice growth there.
How much of that is the combination with the Informatics piece versus other demand you are seeing in the market? Well it’s a little difficult to parts that out.
I would say my sense is probably more demand right now because we feel good about the combination with informatics in the product side of the business.
I mean it’s difficult to say that because we just at the beginning of the year that we saw material impact in Q2.
So but I mean I think our expectation is and we’re having some good discussions with the customers and clearly what it’s allowing us to do is where were strong as an informatics customers to bring in OneSource in vice versa.
And so I think going forward we’ve got some where we’re optimistic but I would say the impact in Q2 I would say it’s probably fairly minimal.
But the reason why it’s hard to part out right now as I said I mean it’s a combined sales force So it's a little difficult to keep that way.
And then a follow-up on the China newborn market you said 85% adoption but how many test per birth are you seeing right now? About 4 I mean as there is a couple as I mentioned with JSPs now are and expanding that so we’ve got some that high single-digits but on average its probably about four.
And what do you think that has over the next two or three years? I think those things are always difficult to do because you are trying to predict the uptake but I think it goes up it’s a acquisition of how quickly I mean the other opportunity is mass specs goes into that market place as you know you have the ability to jump up fairly significantly but I would say in two years I’ll be disappointed for not pushing low end to double-digits.
And our next question comes from the line of Zarak Khurshid with Wedbush Securities.
Please proceed.
Wondering if you could tell us how much if any of the research business is actually automation sample prep Informatics or anything else sold into more of a routine diagnostics or applied channel and if there is any positive trends related to that? I would think in the diagnostic area its relatively small and we’re starting to make some enrolls into the applied area but I would still say relative basis still relative in minor.
Understood and then just a quick one on good start what’s happening with carrier testing? Thank you.
I would say we’ve been a little disappointed in the uptake there and I think we’ve talked about this in the quarter as well I mean I think we’ve found a challenging from a pricing perspective where is some of the competitors are out there guarantying a low number relative to out of pocket and we find that to be challenging from a regulatory perspective I’ll just put it that way.
And so consequently we are having a difficult time finding it at least within our business practices to be competitive.
And our next question comes from the line of Peter Olsen with Mizuho Securities.
Please proceed.
Hi Rob just what worries you most when you look at the business then for the next 12 months what part of the business worries you the most? And just kind of a follow-up in the coming you might around the research side of the business? What will be the products that help you during the quarter? Thank you.
So I would say going back to my comment before I think the medical imaging always a little bit because I feel little bit less in control there because again we’re a component supplier now we do have some insight let’s say a quarter out but that one is again as we reference before is a little bit [indiscernible] than we would like and that's the one that if you little bit less in control from the standpoint of driving demand.
The second part of your question was -- I am sorry when I was most excited about? Just the research products that kind of help you during the quarter you talked that research type in stronger and -- Yes so I would say that there are couple of the Opera Phenix which is a imager a high-content imager we continue to see very strong adoption I think we’ve got a nice value preposition here for the customer I think we’ve gain a nice value proposition there for the customer I think we very pleased with that.
I spiked out the new microfluidics which is a larger touch I think we’re seeing some nice adoption there in the area of biotherapeutics and also on the NGS side because it goes into sort of quality control on the sample prep and obviously with the ramp up in all the NGS that’s pointing nice demand as well and the other area is we’ve seen good growth in-vivo.
So a number of areas that we’ve been very pleased with on the research side.
And our final question comes from the line of Tycho Peterson with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Thanks hey Rob just on the informatics business I know you talked in recent quarters about the -- to kind of build out there bit more and just hiring maybe just talk a little bit about where you are that build out and I guess you know competitively do you feel like you’ve got critical math means it still going ASMS and seeing what others are doing in terms of pulling data off in NGS system and in that aspect kind of aggregating it all.
Do you need to be doing more along those lines? So that’s in area we have been sort of investing both in sort of mostly in people and I’d say we’re making grew progress there we still got way to go I mean I still these people are a difficult to find and attract but I’d say we’ve made some progress there.
I would say in summary we feel very good about our capabilities clearly on the analytic side and the visualization side I think we’re very strong in the chemistry by the chemical side of things.
I think the areas where we need to invest a little bit is on the biological side and as we’ve talked about in the past we’re trying to build a lot of capability in the cloud.
But I think we feel good about the progress we’re making I think they’re still more to do.
I think the other thing is when you go to around the place is like ASNS or ACC.
You continue to reinforce the importance of informatics and the capabilities that we’re building because clearly and whether it’s research environmental or diagnostic it’s going to become increasing more important.
And then I guess as you mentioned ASBC I mean one of the other big trends this year was just kind of to push to point of care by the [indiscernible] and others.
Can you maybe talk about how you view that market? Is it an interesting opportunity to be doing more in the physician's office and is there risk of displacement for your plate readers some of these former business competitors that are pushing into these markets? So I mean I think we view as an opportunity within emerging markets I think the challenge for us has been trying to find a technology that is both sort of sensitive and output at the same time cheap enough and so the users low energy and all the needs that are require to work in the environment of emerging market.
So I think it has a potential to be very attractive market.
But I think it’s got to be the right product the right technology and up at this point this it’s been challenging sort of find the right one that on.
That concludes today’s question.
I’ll now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Robert Friel for closing remarks.
Well thank you very much.
And I want to appreciate everyone taking the time this morning.
We feel good about our progress year-to-date and believe we are well position to deliver on our full year financial commitments and continue to make progress on our strategic priorities.
Thank you for your interest in PerkinElmer and have a great evening.
Ladies and gentlemen that conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
See you all have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the PerkinElmer Q3 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Tommy Thomas Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Christy.
Good afternoon and welcome to PerkinElmer's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
With me on the call are Rob Friel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Andy Wilson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
If you have not received a copy of today's earnings press release you may get one from the Investors section of our website at www.perkinelmer.com.
Please note this call is being webcast live and will be archived on our website until November 19 2015.
Before we begin we need to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor statements that we have outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings.
Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views only as of today.
We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements in the future even if our estimates change so you should not rely on any of today's forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date after today.
During this call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is available as an attachment to our earnings press release.
To the extent we use non-GAAP financial measures during this call that are not reconciled to GAAP in the attachment we will provide the reconciliations promptly.
I'm now pleased to introduce the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PerkinElmer Rob Friel.
Rob? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Tommy.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
I am pleased to report that we delivered strong financial results during the third quarter.
We grew revenue on a constant currency basis by 10% and grew organic revenue by 6% with 7% growth in Human Health and 5% growth in Environmental Health.
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 16% on a constant currency basis and we continued to expand adjusted operating margins.
Through the first nine months of 2015 we are tracking well to our financial guidance provided in January despite some incremental headwinds in a few end markets.
The success we saw in the third quarter reinforces PerkinElmer's strategy of innovating across our core capabilities of detection imaging software and service which allows us to build strong market positions and attractive end markets.
Our deep market knowledge and breadth of scientific capabilities means we can deliver targeted solutions to our customers fueling breakthroughs that help improve quality and longevity of life.
I would like to highlight a few examples from the third quarter where our unique capabilities continued to support our customers in the critical work they perform.
In the area of imaging we are working with a number of top-tier research institutions in cancer immunotherapy through advanced research and the interaction between mechanism of host and disease.
Using PerkinElmer's vector multispectral imaging platform combined with our novel multiplex labeling reagents and image analysis algorithms these customers are now able to visualize and quantify the complex relationships between cancer and immune cells in samples of diseased tissue.
Critically these interactions are shedding light on important biological pathways at the heart of immuno-oncology such as PD-1 and PDL-1 that are enabling some of the most promising new cancer treatments.
Additionally during the third quarter we expanded our relationship with the Monash Institute of Pharmaceutical Science in Victoria Australia.
Researchers there are relying on a number of our analytical instruments and lab automation systems to study the impact of inhaled oxytocin on preventing or treating postpartum hemorrhage a leading cause of mental mortality or maternal mortality.
In the area of research one of the largest pharmaceutical companies recently purchased our suite of high content imaging and informatics solutions to screen their vast libraries of compounds and assays the activity of small molecules and biologics on suther (4:33) phenotypes.
PerkinElmer scientists and engineers have developed a way to read out this activity at the cellular and sub-cellular levels and combined with our advanced machine learning based software we're enabling this customer to automate and rapidly deploy image analysis across large numbers of samples.
The key element behind our ability to meet customers' big data challenges has been the development and validation of enterprise informatics solutions to enable the integration and management of these rich complex multivariate data sets.
I've shared this particular example because it reinforces the value of offering unique imaging and detection capabilities as well as the analysis visualization and collaboration software to understand interpret and share relevant information.
Increasingly our research customers are realizing the value in our full solutions that draw upon our entire portfolio including informatics OneSource services and advanced imaging and detection products.
In the third quarter alone business with our top research global accounts which comprised about 10% of our sales grew mid teens.
This ability to combine detection analysis software and service has been one of the cornerstones of our newborn screening business for many years and is why PerkinElmer solutions and expertise are vital components in global healthcare agendas.
Our newborn screening franchise continued to make good progress in the quarter to support customers' needs to expand screening.
In Kyrgyzstan a new program was established that will serve about 250 000 births per year.
We also helped to bring skin testing to more countries piloting menu expansions and in our medical lab in Suzhou China is meeting pent-up demand for neonatal prenatal and infectious disease screening across China.
During the third quarter we continued to introduce new products into the market as we are committed to both responding to and anticipating change through a relentless focus on innovation to solve customer challenges.
In the third quarter we debuted our Opal tissue staining kits which are part of our new Phenoptics workflow offering and includes staining capabilities imaging technologies and image analysis software to help customers in the fast growing area of quantitative pathology.
As I mentioned previously these capabilities are enabling researchers oncologists and pathologists to better characterize immune cells and tumor cells within tissue in ways not previously possible.
During Q3 we also launched Signals for Translational which is a cloud-based informatics platform for pharmaceutical researchers that aggregates manages and analyzes experimental and clinical data from multiple sources.
Signals for Translational helps scientists better progress from data acquisition to biomarker discovery and validation as they develop drugs tailored to patient's individual needs.
And with the growing majority of top global pharmaceutical companies engaged in translational work.
We see PerkinElmer's Signals platform as a key enabler in this field.
In addition we introduced the TGA 8000 analyzer for advance materials characterization.
This is a prime example of how we are evolving our detection capabilities so that PerkinElmer customers can better progress from samples to answers and insights.
The TGA's range of applications includes determining contaminates in products or in their packaging.
To answer an increasing need across the customer base this instrument runs on new software for high sensitivity thermal analysis and features remote status monitoring.
As we move ahead we see clear opportunities that benefit from positive long-term trends across human and environmental health.
In the near-term however we are balancing our long-term enthusiasm while closely monitoring several areas of uncertainty.
Among the strongest tailwinds are the biotech and pharma markets where our global account approach and product offerings give us access to attractive areas bolstered by heavy customer investment.
Additionally in China while the overall economy is slowing the criticality of our solutions directly address long-term priorities for the country.
Last week's announcement of the end to the one child policy should noticeably boost our business over the next several years.
Furthermore the government's focus on ensuring a cleaner environment safer food and overall access to healthcare will hopefully translate into positive impacts for both local funding and China's next Five Year Plan.
In Europe a number of countries' economies are stabilizing although the current immigration issue could redirect spending in certain sectors.
And lastly the US is on track for solid growth as we close out the year.
On the other hand a significant headwind in the short-term is Japan's deteriorating economy as funding delays are causing very weak academic and government spending.
Our medical imaging business also faces tougher market conditions than it has in years past.
More recently customer ordering patterns for this business have become incrementally challenging creating further softness in the fourth quarter.
Furthermore as you're all aware the strength of the US dollar is posing challenges for emerging countries such as Brazil.
This is coupled with the drop in oil prices forcing oil-producing countries to normalize demand potentially softening future revenues and curtailing research and spending on improving healthcare.
On balance we are optimistic about the macro conditions but recognize some markets remain challenging.
Based on our guidance for the fourth quarter of 3% to 4% organic revenue growth and adjusted EPS of $0.86 to $0.89 we would deliver full-year results of 8% revenue growth in constant currency organic revenue growth of 4% and adjusted EPS on a constant currency basis of approximately 13%.
However just as important as these financial results we continue to make excellent progress in advancing the strategic priorities of the company and improving our operational and technical capabilities.
Our success to date positions us to deliver on our commitments to our customers and shareholders while driving our mission to improve human and environmental health.
I would now like to turn the call over to Andy to give more color around our Q3 results and fourth quarter guidance.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon everyone.
Consistent with previous quarters I'll provide some additional color on our end markets a financial summary of our third quarter results and details around our fourth quarter 2015 guidance.
Given the continuing impact of foreign exchange on the comparability of our results I'll once again provide much of my commentary on a constant currency basis in order to better portray the results in the quarter.
For the third quarter we reported approximately 10% constant currency revenue growth and 6% organic revenue growth with foreign exchange representing a headwind of approximately 6%.
As we have previously communicated there was an extra week in the third quarter and we estimate the impact of that extra week on organic revenues was approximately 2%.
Adjusted revenues were $563.6 million in the third quarter as compared to $542.9 million in the same period a year ago driven by broad-based demand.
Third quarter adjusted earnings per share was $0.60 up 16% on a constant currency basis from $0.57 in the comparable period a year ago.
Looking at our geographic results we experienced mid single digit organic revenue growth in the Americas and Asia and high single digit organic revenue growth in Europe.
Year-to-date organic revenue growth has been mid single digits across all three regions.
We are pleased to report that our results in Europe have shown positive organic growth in the last five quarters and we expect demand in Europe to remain stable for the balance of the year.
In China revenues grew high single digits organically and we remain comfortable with our full year outlook of high single digit organic revenue growth.
As to our operating results third quarter adjusted gross margins were $47.2% up 40 basis points on a constant currency basis driven primarily by volume leverage mix and productivity gains.
For the nine month period gross margins improved by 50 basis points on a constant currency basis.
Third quarter adjusted SG&amp;A was 24.8% of adjusted revenues essentially flat over the same period a year ago.
For the first nine months of 2015 SG&amp;A is down 50 basis points on a constant currency basis the result of continued operating leverage and from our indirect spend initiatives.
Research and development spending in the third quarter was up modestly as compared to the same period a year ago driven by continued investments in innovative new product development and incremental investment at Perten.
Year to date R&amp;D spending is up approximately 30 basis points on both a reported and adjusted basis as the impact from FX was immaterial.
Overall we were pleased with our operational performance in the third quarter as we expanded our constant currency adjusted operating margins over 50 basis points and approximately 70 basis points year to date.
We're encouraged by our third quarter margin expansion given the difficult comparison from the prior period.
Net interest and other expense in the third quarter was approximately $12 million impacted by higher than expected foreign currency losses in the period offsetting a favorable adjusted tax rate for the quarter of approximately 19%.
We expect our adjusted tax rate for the full year to be approximately 20.5% which is consistent with our performance year to date.
Switching to the segments third quarter organic revenues in our Human Health business increased approximately 7% and Environmental Health organic revenues grew approximately 5%.
Year to date organic revenues have increased 5% in our Human Health business and 3% in our Environmental Health business.
From an end market perspective our Human Health business represented approximately 61% of reported revenue in the quarter with diagnostics contributing 28% of revenue and research 33% of revenue.
Organic revenue growth from our diagnostic business increased high single digits off a double digit comparison in the comparable prior year period.
This was driven by continued strength in our newborn screening franchise offset by flat organic revenue in medical imaging due to difficult prior year comparisons and customer ordering patterns.
We continue to be encouraged by the broad acceptance of our new cassette and CMOS offerings but expect a challenging fourth quarter due to softening demand within the radiology and radiation oncology end markets.
We expect these conditions to persist through the first half of 2016 but anticipate the softness to be partially offset by demand for our new cassette and CMOS product launches.
We once again experienced strength across our diagnostics offerings in China growing double digit in the quarter with a strong performance in our newborn screening and prenatal business.
As Rob mentioned we're pleased that China has announced the elimination of the one child policy and we believe that this should have a positive impact for our diagnostics offerings over the next several years.
Our Haoyuan blood screening business had an excellent quarter of growth albeit off a low base.
We're hopeful that the adoption and enforcement of nucleic acid testing begins to ramp more quickly in the coming months but visibility as to the exact timing remains unclear.
Organic revenue in our life science solutions business grew high single digits in the third quarter driven by strong instrument sales and high content screening and imaging strength from our informatics offerings and robust growth at our OneSource multi-vendor services in spite of a very difficult prior year comparison.
We continue to be pleased with the double digit growth we're seeing with key global pharmaceutical and biotech customers the result of our efforts since early this year to better combine our research informatics and OneSource multi-vendor service offerings into targeted solutions.
Globally we continue to see stability in academic and government end markets while pharma and biotech markets have improved with the exception of Japan which continues to experience weak demand.
Moving to our Environmental Health business which represented approximately 39% of reported revenue in the quarter.
Revenues grew 5% organically.
Our third quarter results benefited from increased food and environmental demand with stability in industrial end markets driven to a large extent by success from our inorganic Perten and material characterization offerings.
We're pleased to report that Perten had another good quarter.
I recently visited with the team in Sweden and came away more bullish about the opportunity to expand our addressable market as we look to develop more dedicated food analyzers combined with our FTIR capabilities with Perten's core technology.
We believe there are a number of additional cross-business opportunities as Perten benefits from the broader global reach and footprint of PerkinElmer.
Turning to the balance sheet we finished the third quarter with approximately $1 billion of debt and nearly $200 million of cash.
During the quarter we repurchased 1.5 million of our outstanding shares for a total consideration of approximately $72 million.
We exited the quarter with a debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.3 times and a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 1.9 times.
Turning to cash flow.
We continue to see strong cash collections offset by additional inventory requirements.
Year to date adjusted operating cash flow from continuing operations was $189 million essentially flat versus the same period a year ago.
The increase in working capital reflects additional inventory related to new product launches including our relationship with Waters as well as normal seasonal patterns.
We expect these levels to decline over the balance of the year and continue to expect our full year adjusted free cash flow to net income ratio to be consistent with our guidance provided earlier in the year.
Overall we are pleased with our year to date performance as revenues grew organically 4% gross and operating margins expanded 50 and 70 basis points respectively and adjusted earnings per share grew 15% all on a constant currency basis.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter we believe we were well positioned across the majority of the portfolio to deliver another solid top and bottom line performance despite a couple of areas of softness specifically medical imaging in Japan as well as the strengthening of the dollar.
As a result we now expect our fourth quarter reported revenues to be in the range of $610 million to $620 million which represents approximately 7% constant currency revenue growth and organic revenue growth in a range of 3% to 4%.
Adjusted earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $0.86 to $0.89 which represents approximately 9% constant currency growth at the midpoint.
For the full year we're narrowing the range of our adjusted earnings per share to $2.56 to $2.59 with the midpoint maintained at $2.57 representing 13% constant currency adjusted earnings per share growth.
For modeling purposes you should focus on the midpoint of the revenue adjusted EPS guidance ranges as our most likely view for the fourth quarter.
This concludes my prepared remarks.
Christy at this time we could open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
Our first question is from Doug Schenkel of Cowen.
Your line is open.
Hey good afternoon and thank you for taking the questions.
I guess my first question is really on capital deployment.
So Rob you've talked about having $1 billion of M&amp;A capacity for the next few years.
You've talked about the deal pipeline being robust but acknowledged that valuations are still pretty high.
I think while it's only been a few quarters since you outlined some of the criteria the activity has been somewhat limited.
Would you be willing to share how you're thinking about the deal pipeline today and when you might pivot to other ways of deploying capital if the opportunity to pursue M&amp;A remains limited? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
So as you mentioned we continue to feel like we've got a good pipeline.
I would say it's again as you mentioned I think some of the valuations have been a little challenging.
So one of the things I think Andy talked about it we did buy some shares back in the third quarter.
I think it was about $70 million or so we spent on share repurchasing.
And the way we're thinking about this is obviously as the deployment of the capital from an M&amp;A perspective gets delayed obviously in the quarters we continue to generate more cash flow.
So we're getting more comfortable with the idea of saying we can take shares out and still maintain significant capacity to do M&amp;A.
So that's why you saw in third quarter we started to get a little more aggressive on the share buybacks.
And so I think if we continue to be unable to do some things on M&amp;A perspective we would continue to return the cash back to shareholders through share buyback.
Is there some point where you might thinking about doing something more meaningful in the form of a buyback? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think we continue to feel pretty optimistic about our ability to do some things on the M&amp;A perspective.
So hopefully we'll see how things change but as of right now I think given our view that we think we can get some things done here probably unlikely to see something where it would be a big share buyback but I think doing a little bit of both I think is probably what I would expect going forward.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Isaac Ro of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
This is actually Joel Kaufman in for Issac.
Just to start off first with margins.
Obviously the margin story has progressed nicely over the past couple years.
Could you maybe just clarify exactly what are the key operational initiatives you guys are focused on going forward to drive that next leg of margin expansion aside from driving just top line growth? Well I think a key part of it is the leverage we're going to get from the top line.
We've always said that's really about half of what we think we can deliver from a margin expansion perspective.
We also have talked quite a bit about indirect spend.
Year to date we actually on a constant currency basis have saved $10 million year over year on our indirect spend initiative.
So we're actually a little ahead of schedule there.
Obviously all this has been impacted somewhat by the change in FX rates but I think overall we still feel comfortable with that cadence of 60 to 80 basis points 70 to 100 basis points of margin expansion going forward assuming reasonable growth.
We also have rolled out some lean initiatives.
I think that's going to help drive some of the progress on the gross margin side specifically within the factory.
So I think you're going to see really three pieces continue tight controls over SG&amp;A.
I think you'll it continue to see margin expansion on the gross margin side through factory enhancements and efficiencies.
And then the leverage we get from the top line and hopefully that's also going to end up continuing to be a positive mix as we're seeing Human Health grow at a faster pace than Environmental Health and they have higher margins.
Thanks.
And then just one on Europe appreciate the comments you guys made earlier there and calling out the strength and in the region.
Should we be thinking about that as just easing comps or a broader improvement in underlying demand? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I actually think it's a little bit of both.
I mean clearly we're getting the benefit of a difficult 2014 but I think at the same time we mentioned the fact that we are seeing some stabilization in demand and so I think going forward we feel pretty good about the pace of growth in Europe.
I would say the only area that we're sort of watching a little closely here and again I think we called that out a little bit is with the recent pressure on the immigration we're a little concerned that you could see some shifting of prioritization and to the extent that that may impact some of the incremental spending going into healthcare and research.
But generally speaking we feel pretty good about the demand profile in Europe.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Bryan Brokmeier of Cantor Fitzgerald.
Your line is open.
Hi good afternoon.
Furthering the question on M&amp;A.
Have you seen you said you've seen challenging valuations but some other companies in the space have talked about seeing some of those valuations come down start to pull in a little bit.
Some companies are starting to be a little bit more reasonable given the pullback in the space.
Are you seeing that as well? And then secondly you also I believe talked about having about $1 billion in capacity to do M&amp;A.
Is that still how you'd look at it despite the recent share buybacks and sort of other things you've done with your capital deployment? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I would say on the valuation side possibly I mean probably for us the fact that the IPO market is getting a little bit more challenging probably with the smaller private companies I think that's helpful.
I think for some of the more public companies I don't think the valuations expectations have changed much at least from my perspective.
With regard to the $1 billion I mean the way we think about that is both our borrowing capacity as well as our free cash flow generation over the next couple years.
And I think the combination of those two leads us to believe that we could probably spend up to $1 billion.
Great.
And what areas that you most focused on? You recently I guess that's been about a year now since you did the Perten acquisition.
But is food safety still an area where you're focused on or are you more taking a look at on the Human Health side such as diagnostics and your biopharma business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think first of all one of the good things I think about PerkinElmer is both businesses I think have attractive aspects from an end market perspective.
So clearly the environmental side whether it's food or even in some of the applications within water I think we continue to be – I think are very attractive.
On the Human Health side I think both the area of diagnostics anything we could do to expand our franchise there.
And selectively within the research areas again and then I would say the other area which really cuts across both is the area of software and informatics.
So I think across the majority of the businesses we would looked to be adding there from a bolt-on acquisition perspective.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mira Minkova of Stifel.
Your line is now open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good afternoon guys.
Thank you for taking my question.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Maybe let me start with your organic growth guidance for the fourth quarter.
It seems like a bit of step down versus what you've done in the last couple of quarters 3% to 4%.
Appreciate that you had mentioned the comments on Japan medical imaging.
Is there anything else that we should be considering that may be happening in the fourth quarter and also what are you assuming for budget flush there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So first of all we're not assuming any budget flush in the numbers that we are forecasting.
But I would say probably three things and you mentioned two of them.
One is clearly medical imaging and Japan and we probably think those combined are probably a 150 basis point headwind.
And then I would say the third thing is if you recall we had fairly strong Q4 last year.
So we are cycling against a pretty strong comp.
So I would say the combination of those three things is something that we're considering when we give the guidance.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Got you.
And on the change to the one child policy in China obviously that you called it out it must be a good thing for you.
Help us if you could please remind us how big your China neonatal business is right now and how would you think about the impact? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So first of all I would say I think the impact longer term is going to be very helpful.
When you think about 17 million children born in China the potential for that to grow and maybe grow fairly significantly I think is real.
I think the real question is how long or what's sort of the ramp and of course I think that's a difficult thing to quantify in the short term.
One of the things we have done is we've gone back and you may recall in November of 2013 there was a relaxation of the one child policy for parents who were only children.
And if you look over the last two years there has been about 1.4 million of those parents that have applied for second children.
That represents a little bit more than 10% of the parents that were actually eligible to do that.
And if we go back and look at our business that probably tracks pretty well that we think that had about a 12% to 15% impact on the growth in the newborn screening business.
So again if that's sort of a proxy of what's going to happen this time you're going to see an increase but it's going to be a fairly slow ramp.
Hope that's helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jeff Elliott of Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah with all the focus on new products I guess can we get an update on what you're seeing in contribution from all the new products you launched earlier this year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah we feel very good about the progress there.
We talked about it in the beginning of the year about a $30 million or $35 million contribution incrementally in 2015 and we think we're going to exceed the top end of that range.
As we look at through the Q3 and what our expectations are for Q4 we think we'll be north of the $35 million incremental benefit.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
And do you have any anecdotes about the kind of synergies you now see (32:33) informatics and some of the other businesses? I know you've kind of moved around different pieces of the business lately but an update on the synergies you're seeing there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah well a couple of them I sort of mentioned in my prepared remarks when I talked about the progress we're having with the sort of pharmaceutical companies.
When we think about historically we would have provided them say imaging equipment and now by packaging that together we have customers now that are not only ordering our imaging equipment but ordering some of our software specifically sort of high content imaging software as well as Spotfire licenses and even in some cases enterprise related software.
And if you look at the key global accounts the top 20 global accounts where we've combined our informatics OneSource and product offerings those customers are growing mid teens through the first three quarters of the year.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Dan Arias of Citi.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi guys.
This is actually Bryan Kipp on behalf of Dan.
Rob question for you.
I mean on the margin – Rob or Andy.
On the margin front I mean strong organic.
I know the mix was probably a little bit less favorable just because it was 61% versus 62% last year.
But was still surprised by the soft incremental contributions here despite the strong organic pull through.
So what were the dynamics there that maybe softened that? Was it one-time items? Was it mix or was there something else in there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I would say first of all if you look at the beat on the top line that fundamentally came in two areas.
One is OneSource and I think Andy talked about this was very strong.
So we saw very strong growth in the OneSource offering.
Again potentially benefited from the point earlier where we're sort of combining it with OneSource in the product offerings and that has lower incrementals.
I would say the other thing to point out is when we talked about the incremental higher revenue from the additional week that also comes at relatively low margins.
Because if you think about it you're amortizing the cost sort of again 1/52 over that period of time and the revenue for those additional days is much lower.
So again the flow through on the incremental revenue from the week and the incremental revenue from OneSource lowers the flow through.
Having said that if you look at our EPS growth on a constant currency basis it was still 16%.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Appreciate it and a two pronged one.
One the Europe comment that you had are you guys seeing any softness because of a massive influx of refugees or is that just kind of a long tail? And the other thing is can you just contextualize maybe the Opal tissue contribution cloud-based stuff the launch that you did in 3Q with next year? Just early color market addressable market size et cetera.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah so I would say so first of all I don't know that we're seeing anything directly from an orders perspective but I would say we're hearing it in discussions with customers.
So I would say it's a concern; at least it's a concern of the customers.
But I wouldn't say we're seeing any hard evidence of that today.
But I think obviously something we're aware of.
I think with regard to the imaging opportunities I think the way we think about that today is largely in the research use only and I think in that it's probably a $30 million to $40 million market opportunity for us.
I think the greater market potential is to get it into the clinic.
And that's something we're talking about and discussing internally whether we make that investment or partner.
But I think the significant growth opportunity there would be more in the clinical side.
But having said that we do see a nice $30 million to $40 million market on the research use only.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Knight with Janney Montgomery.
Your line is open.
Rob we've seen in the market more entries into the service side of the business.
Are you seeing greater competition because of your success in the service strategy you deployed quite a while ago? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't know that we're seeing any more competition.
I guess my view is the competition has always been pretty formidable.
But as I sort of mentioned before we continue to do quite well.
OneSource had a very strong quarter in Q3.
And if you look at sort of year to date they're growing well in the sort of mid teens or better.
So we continue to do well and I think it has to do with not only I think the reputation and execution capability of the team but also as we increase our capabilities around software informatics and again package it with this global account focus.
We continue to see significant opportunity to grow that business.
And then lastly on the reagent side I know that's been lower growth that you've liked in the past.
How do you feel about your product mix now on the reagent side of your portfolio? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I would say on the Human Health side particularly on research that's been a real area of focus from an R&amp;D perspective sort of late 2014 and 2015 and we saw nice traction this quarter.
So I think our reagents were up about I'll call it low to mid teens in the quarter.
Obviously diagnostics was strong; we saw strong in research.
I think environmental is still an area and it's less research and it's more consumables.
We're seeing decent growth there but we still need to get that up as a percentage of our revenue.
But we were pleased with the performance like I said particularly on the research side this quarter as some the investments we made in research and development were providing us benefits.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Derik De Bruin of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Hello.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hello.
Hi Derik.
Can you hear me? Hey.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Can you give a little bit more color on the medical imaging business? I mean are those products a little bit higher margin? and I guess what overall percentage of your sales is the medical imaging business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So medical imaging is probably I think call it 8% of our revenue depending on the quarter but in that sort of general range.
If you look at medical imaging you can think about it in three markets there is the radiology market there is an oncology market and then there is I'll call it an industrial market.
And roughly speaking we'll call that a third a third a third.
We continue to do very well in the industrial market.
I think that's a combination of some new products we've gotten out there and I think we continue to capture share there.
I think the challenge that we face is more in the radiology and oncology.
And I would point out a couple things.
First of all obviously this is a business while we continue to think is very attractive has a demand profile that's probably more volatile than the rest of the other PerkinElmer businesses largely because it serves a more capital-intensive end market.
So again while we think it's an attractive business clearly differentiated capabilities and overall serving attractive markets it is going to have a little bit more volatility because of the capital intensity of their customers.
Great.
That's helpful.
And did I hear you correctly you felt like the medical imaging business would be down in at least until the second half of next year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think we believe it will be down in Q4 and we're not really getting into 2016 guidance now.
But I would say it's probably going to be stronger in the back half of 2016 than it is in the front half.
Unclear whether it'll actually be down in the first half of 2016.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Dane Leone of BTIG.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thank you very much for the update.
So kind of a bigger picture question here.
You guys have a good diversity of businesses where you are a leader in those businesses and that's served you guys pretty well especially over the last couple quarters versus peers in terms of some volatility.
I guess the strategic question is you guys have flexibility and can be pretty nimble into moving into new markets.
What's the appetite for moving into some of the higher growth higher margin markets more aggressively like clinical diagnostics perhaps point of care molecular or more of the core genomic space? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I guess the way I would describe that is when we think about sort of philosophically the portfolio in businesses that we're sort of attracted to I would say we think about a couple things.
First of all is it a business that fits well with PerkinElmer.
And what I mean by that is is it consistent with our mission and vision around human environmental health.
The second thing is is it attractive from the end-market again does it have differentiated capabilities are the financial returns attractive and then finally are we appropriate owners meaning can we make it better are we willing to invest in it and what does it do for the overall portfolio.
So I think a number of the areas that you mentioned I think probably fit all those from the standpoint it's consistent with the mission obviously attractive growth in some cases we'd have to understand and make sure the financial returns are appropriate.
And I think a lot of them would fit well with what we do.
So whether it's additional investments in clinical diagnostics or et cetera.
Just finding the right assets and making sure the returns make sense relative to the price.
But I think all those areas and a majority of those areas are ones that I think we would find attractive if we thought the asset fit well with what we're trying to achieve and we could make sense out of the financial returns.
So if we think about the success that you've had with the Caliper transaction moving into new markets or adjacencies do you think it's a better strategy to work in maybe a smaller part of the market and then broaden out say like starting in single cell and then broaden out or go with a very broad platform technology to kind of make the first footprint there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well it's a little hard to generalize overall but I would say our success has been generally more in areas that are sort of more niched where we can be differentiated based on capability and rather than taking on some of the larger players in let's say molecular diagnostics or some of the broader areas.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Steve Beuchaw of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Thanks for all the color here and thanks for taking the questions.
Just two pretty simple ones from me one for Rob and one for Andy.
Rob the commentary that you gave on the health of the different end markets was really thorough and really helpful.
Would it be fair to say that as we roll it all up I mean thinking about where we are at health end markets as we look out over the next several months is it in total roughly the same in terms of the end market growth outlook as a year ago the moving parts or the sub-components just differently mixed in terms of what's a growth driver or not? And if not then how might you compare the profile the aggregate end market growth now to a year ago? And then my second question for Andy I wondered if you can give us any sense based on what you're seeing right now in terms of currencies what the currency impact on the model might be in 2016 broad strokes top line margin earnings impact.
If you have any rough sense it would be very helpful.
Thanks guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So let me take the first one.
So I would say if we're talking about markets from a geographic perspective I would have a tendency to agree with you which is there is sort of pluses and minuses.
But I would say the geographic end markets meaning sort of North America Europe emerging markets sort of puts and takes but they're probably fairly consistent with what we would expect it in total.
When I think about the sort of application or the end markets from a customer's perspective the one exception I would say would be in medical imaging.
So I think diagnostics is probably about what we thought maybe marginally a little bit better.
I think research maybe is marginally a little bit better.
I think environmental is probably okay and maybe the industrials are a little bit more challenged.
So maybe that all balances out.
But I do think particularly in the back half of the year medical imaging is probably being a little – we're finding the markets a little bit more challenging.
So on the margin if you think about that being 8% of our business or so it's creating a little bit of a headwind call it 50 to 100 basis points.
And Steve on your second question we're in the midst of rolling up our annual plan right now and obviously the distribution of that revenue and profit is going to have a significant impact on the impact of FX.
I will say for the fourth quarter given where the euro is right now and where some of the other currencies larger buckets are it's probably a $0.015 to $0.02 of headwind for us in the fourth quarter that's factored into our guidance.
But that's how I would characterize it at this point.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ross Muken with Evercore ISI.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Rob you've been around in business for a long time.
I guess how would you characterize where we are in the cycle? I'm thinking more in the environmental businesses and maybe some of the industrial pieces where we are in this cycle versus maybe the last cycle.
It seems a bit tough to figure out with the US stronger and obviously all the emergings challenged.
I mean I guess one how has it made you think about the positioning of that part of the business longer term and where you want to play and where you don't want to play? And two I guess how does it make you think about investments in some of those emerging markets that are kind of going through a recession or recession-like behavior as we speak? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I would say if we're talking about environmental specifically and we can talk about the other but the environmental specifically I think there is parts of that market that continue to be challenged.
Right so we talk about the industrial end markets.
And so consequently what we've talked about and what you've seen us do is to become more focused on where we're going to invest.
So if I go back a number of years ago we were investing across the broad range of technologies and capabilities with environmental.
And we would argue that we probably had 12 different product lines across environmental and of course the service applications as well.
I think as we have gotten more concerned about the – and I would say most importantly the industrial side – when you look at things like – although we're not big in oil and gas obviously petrochemical and fine chemical – fine chemicals is an area for us and some of the offshoots of those that we want to get more focus in areas both from a technology perspective and an application.
So obviously our move with partnering with Waters where we just said it doesn't make sense for us to continue to invest in liquid chromatography.
We're not strong there.
And so that's how I sort of think about it.
So I think on the environmental side what you will see us is more focused invest in areas where we think we have strong market shares or strong technology capabilities.
And in the other areas we'll either partner or sort of deemphasize.
Perfect.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Bill Quirk of Piper Jaffray.
Your line is open.
Great.
Good afternoon everyone.
This is actually Alex Nowak filling in for Bill today.
So we have seen some slowing US birth rates in our recent checks.
And I was just wondering can you offset the slowing growth with either menu expansion within the space or from an increase in the number of tests (49:50) the Affordable Care Act? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I would say our data doesn't necessarily support a declining birth rate.
Our data would suggest that birth rates are sort of stable maybe increasing slightly.
But the answer to your question is that yeah we're always looking to continue to expand the menu.
And of course we've got broader offerings that we can provide whether it's in the software side or continue to build out additional capabilities that we can offer the lab.
So I think there is always an opportunity or we believe there is always an opportunity to continue to grow the business almost irrespective of the birth rate.
But having said that our data would suggest that US birth rates are like I said flat to up slightly.
Okay great.
And then this one might be a little hard to tease out since China is ramping so rapidly.
But two questions.
First in China did you see any slowdown in the birth rates because of the Year of the Goat.
And then second does it set you up for an easier comp to allow you to repeat the screening performance from this year or even accelerate it? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So the answer to this question is yes on both.
We did see a reduction in birth rates because of the Year of the Goat and we do believe that will provide an opportunity to accelerate growth in 2016.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Zarak Khurshid of Wedbush.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi there everybody.
Thanks for taking the questions.
First on the macro tone in the Chinese business we've seen some wobbles there from a number of other players.
Can you just talk us through the hospitals and end markets there and why you may or not be as sensitive to a harder landing in the region? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So if you think about our diagnostic business in China it's fundamentally – I'll call it four businesses.
You have the newborn business which I think continues to grow because you've got adoption rate.
So more children are being screened and you've got menu expansion almost irrespective of birth rates.
And we talked about that on the prior question.
So I think we can continue to grow there because as we've said on calls in the past they're still doing only a handful of tests in China.
And we're optimistic there for a couple of reasons.
We're starting to get some traction around mass spec.
And we've mentioned in the past that we got CFDA approval for our GSP which is our automated workstation there.
So we think we can continue to drive good growth there and in fact we've seen – I think in third quarter was sort of mid teens.
So we feel good about that.
Similarly same dynamics I would say on the prenatal side.
So I think we continued both the penetration and the ability to do more there.
And similarly we saw similar type growth on the prenatal side.
And then the third area would be in blood screening.
And as Andy mentioned it's off of a low base.
But we're going into we think a pretty significant tailwind as the government will start to enforce the mandate of that screening and of course we're one of five that have the capability to do that.
So last year it would be on the infectious disease.
That's probably the one area where potentially you'll see some slowing on if there was an overall sort of economic slowdown potentially.
But again we see a lot of opportunity to continue to penetrate and expand there.
So but I would say of the areas that we operate in in the event there was a – use your words – hard landing I would think that's the one that probably is most susceptible to some impact.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
And then a follow-up on one of the last philosophical M&amp;A questions.
Given your experiences with Signature Genomics in the past and also NTD Labs what's your appetite to own a diagnostics lab service business? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well of course the two ones you mentioned weren't great although I think NTD had done okay.
I think the issue with Signature was not necessary the lab per se it was the reimbursement side of things.
So I don't know that we would have a particular issue with a service lab per se.
I think we just got to make sure that the reimbursement is clear.
And so and of course outside the US we continue to be quite excited about opportunities in places like India and China.
So I think the service lab would be something we would look to invest in if as long as we had clarity around the reimbursement.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Tycho Peterson of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
This is Steve Breman (54:52) on for Tycho.
Thanks for taking the question.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
First wanted to ask on the softer spending just in Japan which is obviously continuing to be felt throughout the sector.
Can you just give us some more color on what you're seeing kind of on the ground floor and is there any hope for any type of recovery in 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So yeah I think there's hope for recovery in 2016.
I would say we're not very optimistic with hope in 2015 because it just seems like the spending is just not being released.
And so particularly on the research side is where we see it challenging.
And so I would say at this point we're not expecting any recovery or clearly in Q4.
And like I said we're in the process right now of thinking through 2016.
But yeah I think there's a possibility you could see some recovery in 2016.
So we'll just have to wait and see but I would say clearly not for the last quarter here.
Got it.
And then I apologize if I missed this but do you have any updated thoughts on China's new Five Year Plan as the broad themes begin to be disseminated? Obviously still waiting on a lot of details but seems like environmental initiatives are going to be a key part so if you could just briefly talk about how that might benefit you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah that's our sense.
As you probably know I don't think they're going to make it public until March I believe so we're waiting to see.
Our sort of intelligence and the people on the ground tell us that some of the key areas that we're focused on will continue to be a high priority so whether it's environmental whether it's food safety access to healthcare.
So we feel pretty confident that will continue to be key priorities for the government but probably until March or if they start to leak some of the information out we really don't have any particular insight.
Thank you.
That concludes our Q&amp;A session for today.
I would now like to turn the call back to Mr.
Rob Friel for any further remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Very well.
Thanks for your questions.
So let me just say in closing we feel good about our progress year to date and believe we are very well positioned to deliver both on our full year financial commitments and continue to make progress on our key strategic priorities.
Thank you for your interest in PerkinElmer and have a great evening.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the PerkinElmer Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will have a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today's conference Mr.
Tommy Thomas Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Bridget.
Good afternoon and welcome to the PerkinElmer fourth quarter and full-year 2015 earnings conference call.
With me on the call are Rob Friel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Wilson Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
If you have not received a copy of our earnings press release you may get one from the Investors section of our website at www.perkinelmer.com.
Please note that this call is being webcast live and will be archived on our website until February 18 2016.
Before we begin we need to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor statements that we have outlined in our earnings press release issued earlier this afternoon and also those in our SEC filings.
Any forward-looking statements made today represent our views only as of today.
We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements in the future even if our estimates change.
So you should not rely on any of today's forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date after today.
During this call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures we plan to use during this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is available as an attachment to our earnings press release.
To the extent we use non-GAAP financial measures during this call that are not reconciled to GAAP in the attachment we will provide reconciliations promptly.
I'm now pleased to introduce the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PerkinElmer Rob Friel.
Rob? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Tommy.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
I'm pleased to report that PerkinElmer delivered a solid performance in the fourth quarter wrapping up a particularly successful year one in which we delivered significant value for both our customers and shareholders.
Looking at the fourth quarter specifically we grew organic revenue by 3% and on a constant currency basis grew revenue by 5% and adjusted earnings per share by 11%.
We also achieved strong operating cash flow of $126 million which represented growth of over 30% over the fourth quarter of 2014.
For the full year we grew organic revenue by 4% and on a constant currency basis grew revenue by 7% expanded adjusted operating margins by 50 basis points and increased adjusted earnings per share by 13% to $2.55.
All these financial metrics met or exceeded the goals we established in January last year despite a more challenging economic environment than anticipated.
In addition to our strong financial performance we also achieved excellent progress against our 2015 strategic priorities addressed critical customer needs throughout our end markets and expanded our capabilities technically organizationally and geographically.
Moreover our increased emphasis on innovation is now recognized throughout the industry and has resulted in a number of impressive awards.
For example our Phenoptics platform for quantitative pathology was named one of the top 10 innovations of 2015 by The Scientist magazine.
And our NexION 350 ICP mass spec was chosen as the best new spectrometer by SelectScience at last year's Pittsburgh Conference.
As we enter 2016 I'm excited about the opportunities I see to advance our mission and profitably grow the company.
While we expect challenging global economic conditions to continue our hard work up to this point has positioned us well to both invest in several compelling growth opportunities and at the same time deliver consistently attractive financial results.
Specifically rapidly changing technologies and analytics are playing a more pivotal role in healthcare and science than ever before.
Growing populations are demanding better access to expanded healthcare offerings and safer food while regulatory changes are focusing on the health of our families and the environment.
The strategic priorities we have set for 2016 support the objective of improving our financial organizational and scientific capabilities enabling us to make an even more profound difference around the world.
For this year the majority of our efforts will be focused on three areas.
First investing where we believe we have the most significant opportunities to increase maintain or capture leading share positions.
Second we are concentrating and expanding resources to accelerate our current momentum in driving innovation.
While some of our competitors compete based on scale and scope we are directing our efforts towards serving high-growth markets with differentiated capabilities which we believe will in turn create greater customer value.
A large part of what differentiates PerkinElmer is our ability to offer novel solutions that leverage the combined power of our technical capabilities and deep application knowledge.
This year we are increasing our efforts to more effectively collaborate with our customers and thereby enhance their scientists' discoveries or in some cases jointly enable breakthrough technologies.
Third we will continue to drive operational effectiveness globally by implementing a multi-faceted approach aimed at improving processes simplifying our supply chain improving quality and driving efficiencies.
This approach combined with an imperative to continually enhance the organization's talents and skills will both advance our competitiveness and improve profitability.
Before Andy provides more color around our financial results and 2016 guidance I would like to discuss the key strategic areas of focus and the investments we are making to support our future growth.
With a broad set of offerings it's important to differentiate our investments and focus on the programs that we believe will best advance our mission and provide the greatest opportunity for healthy financial returns.
For 2016 these areas of investment include reproductive health emerging market diagnostics food quality and safety and laboratory services.
I'd like to spend a few minutes on each of these four areas.
Our first area of focus is reproductive health.
Worldwide today there are over 130 million babies born every year.
Sadly the majority of these newborns are never screened for serious but treatable metabolic disorders.
As a result of the lack of testing hundreds of thousands of newborns annually are afflicted by life-altering conditions that in some cases lead to a premature death.
We believe this presents a significant opportunity for PerkinElmer to make a difference.
And we are investing to expand who we test how we test and for what disorders we test.
For example many specialty and top pharmaceutical companies are increasing their focus on developing therapeutics for rare early childhood diseases.
As more treatment options become available for these rare diseases we are developing this critical screen test needed to implement them.
Many times these tests are developed in partnership with these pharmaceutical companies enabling early disease detection and ultimately providing more children with the opportunity for a healthy start to life.
We are particularly excited about the development work currently underway for assays that detect spinal muscular atrophy Duchenne muscular dystrophy and lysosomal storage and immunodeficiency disorders.
Also within reproductive health we are investing in prenatal testing.
We recently announced our acquisition of Vanadis Diagnostics which is developing a novel NIPT platform based on digital analysis of cell-free DNA.
After a period of investment we will be able to offer our customers a next-generation solution that gives wider access for NIPT for expecting mothers with a cost-effective simplified workflow that many biochemistry laboratories can easily run.
In emerging market diagnostics we see significant opportunities to leverage our channel and capabilities by expanding our infectious disease testing portfolio.
We're developing new tests including multiplex bead-based genotyping assays for respiratory panel hepatitis B and C and HPV as well as an HIV quantitative viral load PCR assay.
We're also continuing to expand our Haoyuan blood screening business in China and leveraging our medical lab in Suzhou to expand its testing menu.
Turning to the rapidly growing food safety segment we are prioritizing our efforts to strengthen our franchise through the success of our Perten acquisition and by expanding our detection capabilities to better help customers analyze food quality and authenticity.
This year we will continue to invest in our detection solutions and leverage our extensive application knowledge and proprietary library of sample calibrations.
These investments will bolster our position as the market leader in protein and moisture analysis enabling robust quality of valuation to be performed across each step in the supply chain of food products.
Recently we were able to transform our benchtop infrared technology used to determine food moisture levels and batch analysis and deploy it as an online continuous analyzer to measure quality in the production of final products.
We're also working with a large number of major global food producers to ensure that food supply is genuine unadulterated and free of residues and other contaminants.
We believe this capability will increasingly become more important as governmental regulation and public concerns grow.
Finally in the laboratory services we will continue to invest in our OneSource and informatics capabilities as pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers seek to outsource their laboratory services to drive efficiencies and externally collaborate on the scientific research through advance open innovation.
Specifically we will invest in our leading electronic notebook platform to facilitate collaborative research and in high-value scientific applications such as our TIBCO Spotfire software for harnessing big data.
In addition we will expand our clinical analytics capabilities and develop new solutions for translational research and personalized medicine by leveraging our Signals platform which integrates disparate data sets into a single platform for data discovery.
On the service side we will continue to develop our integrated service capabilities which can effectively align lab operations to improve scientific outcomes.
Through these investments we look to expand our work with existing and new pharmaceutical and biotech customers as well as establish our service in additional end markets.
To fund these potential significant opportunities our 2016 operating plan incorporates an increase in R&amp;D while also generating healthy margin and EPS growth.
While Andy will discuss our 2016 financial outlook in more detail we are forecasting overall end market conditions to be similar to what we experienced in the latter part of last year with some minor puts and takes.
Consequently we are guiding adjusted earnings per share of $2.65 to $2.75 which represents constant currency adjusted earnings per share growth of 8% at the midpoint based on corresponding organic revenue growth of 3% to 4%.
Despite our plan to increase R&amp;D by about 10% or 40 basis points of revenue we are forecasting constant currency adjusted operating margin expansion of 50 basis points.
I will now turn the call over to Andy to discuss our financial results and operating plan in greater detail.
Thanks Rob and good afternoon everyone.
Consistent with previous quarters I'll provide some additional color on our end markets a financial summary of our fourth quarter and full-year results as well as details around our 2016 first quarter and full-year guidance.
Given that foreign exchange has had a material impact on our financial results throughout 2015 I will once again provide much of my commentary on a constant currency basis in order to better portray our year-over-year results.
For the fourth quarter and full year of 2015 foreign exchange negatively impacted revenues by $32 million and $142 million respectively and negatively impacted fourth quarter and full-year adjusted earnings per share by $0.08 and $0.25 respectively versus the comparable period a year ago.
For the fourth quarter adjusted revenues were approximately $608 million which represents cost of currency revenue growth of 5% organic revenue growth of 3% with FX negatively impacting revenue growth by 5%.
Adjusted earnings per share was $0.86 up 11% on a constant currency basis from $0.85 in the comparable period a year ago.
Please note since we provided fourth quarter guidance in October foreign exchange further impacted fourth quarter revenue and adjusted earnings per share by approximately $5 million and $0.02 per share respectively.
The trends we saw through the first three quarters of 2015 continued through the fourth quarter.
Looking at our end markets we continue to see strength in pharma and biotech stable academic and government spending healthy demand in diagnostics and food testing and stable but somewhat slower growth in our environmental safety and industrial markets.
Looking at our geographic results for the fourth quarter we experienced high-single-digit organic revenue growth in Asia while the Americas grew low-single-digits and Europe was essentially flat due to very difficult prior period comparisons specifically in our research and analytical equipment businesses.
In the BRIC region fourth quarter organic revenue increased double-digits versus the same period last year driven by strength in China partially offset by weakening demand in Brazil and Russia.
Switching to the segments.
For the fourth quarter Environmental Health organic revenue grew approximately 5% with Human Health increasing 2% as compared to same period a year ago.
From an end market perspective our Human Health business represented approximately 60% of reported revenue for the fourth quarter of 2015 with Diagnostics representing approximately 27% of reported revenue while Life Sciences Solutions represented approximately 33% of reported revenue.
Fourth quarter 2015 organic revenue growth from our Diagnostics business increased mid-single-digits as compared to the prior period driven by strength in our prenatal screening and infectious disease franchises.
Medical imaging grew low-single-digits in the quarter as demand for our CMOS and our new cassette panel was offset somewhat by weakening demand in radiography and radiation oncology end markets.
Looking at the performance of our Diagnostics business in China our Haoyuan blood screening business had an excellent quarter which included a significant number of instrument placements and we look forward to helping ensure a safe blood supply in China in 2016 and beyond.
Overall our Diagnostics business in China finished the year with broad-based growth and delivered a double-digit growth performance in the quarter.
Organic revenue in our Life Science Solutions business grew low-single-digits in the quarter driven by strong U.S.
sales and continued robust growth in our OneSource multi-vendor services offering despite a very difficult prior-year comparison.
Geographically within LSS Japan continues to be weak and was a major drag on overall organic growth.
In contrast to Japan we were encouraged by the double-digit growth we experienced with our key global pharmaceutical and biotech customers.
We've now reached the one-year mark of the combination of our research informatics and OneSource businesses and we believe that we are uniquely well positioned to serve our customers.
Moving to Environmental Health which represented approximately 40% of reported revenue revenues grew 5% organically for the fourth quarter of 2015.
Our fourth quarter reported results benefited from broad-based demand with particular strength in food as well as incremental licensing revenues.
We are pleased to report that the Perten business had a very good year with solid organic revenue growth good margins and strong cash flow.
We successfully achieved our year-one deal model expectations and we look forward to building on this momentum going forward.
As Rob mentioned earlier we had a strong performance in 2015 and I want to go over the highlights now.
For the full year we reported approximately 7% constant currency revenue growth and 4% organic revenue growth with foreign exchange representing a headwind of approximately 6%.
Full-year adjusted revenue was approximately $2.26 billion as compared to $2.24 billion in 2014.
Full-year adjusted earnings per share was $2.55 up 13% on a constant currency basis from $2.47 in 2014.
Looking at our geographic results for the year we experienced mid-single-digit organic revenue growth across all major regions.
In the BRIC region full-year 2015 organic revenues increased approximately 6% compared to 2014.
Looking at our emerging market organic revenue growth in total it was once again up 7% for the full year which is consistent with our performance over the last several years a testament to the criticality of our products and solutions that we provide.
As to our operating results full-year adjusted gross margins were 47.6% up 20 basis points on a constant currency basis driven primarily by volume leverage mix and productivity gains.
Full-year adjusted SG&amp;A was 24.4% of adjusted revenue down 50 basis points on a constant currency basis over the same period a year ago driven by the success of our indirect spend initiatives.
Full-year research and development spending was higher by approximately 20 basis points as compared to 2014 driven by increased investment in new products.
Overall we were pleased with our operational performance for the full year as we expanded our constant currency adjusted operating margins over 50 basis points.
Our full-year net interest and other expense was essentially flat at $42 million and our full year adjusted tax rate was just over 19% better than expected for the year due essentially to the geographic mix of earnings and to lower tax jurisdictions.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We finished the year with approximately $1 billion of debt and nearly $240 million of cash and we exited the quarter with a debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.3 times and a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 1.7 times.
Turning to cash flow.
I am very pleased to report that we had a very strong performance growing approximately 30% in the fourth quarter.
We experienced robust working capital improvement with strong cash collections and lower inventory requirements.
Excluding the $20 million of discretionary pension funding we talked about earlier in the year operating cash flow for the full-year 2015 was $307 million.
To wrap up 2015 we're pleased with our performance as revenue grew organically 4% operating margins expanded 50 basis points and adjusted earnings per share grew 13% on a constant currency basis.
Looking ahead to 2016 we continue to believe we're well positioned to deliver another solid financial performance.
However we continue to see the macroeconomic outlook as mixed.
For the full-year 2016 we expect reported revenues to be in the range of $2.3 billion to $2.32 billion up 2% to 3% representing organic revenue growth in a range of 3% to 4% with foreign exchange representing a headwind of approximately 2%.
Full-year adjusted earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $2.65 to $2.75 which represents approximately 6% to 8% constant currency adjusted earnings per share growth or 8% at the midpoint.
Implicit in this guidance is constant currency adjusted gross margin expansion of approximately 70 basis points.
As Rob mentioned we are increasing our research and development spending in 2016.
This incremental 40 basis points in R&amp;D spend is expected to be partially offset by lower SG&amp;A spend of 20 basis points.
As a result we expect to report full-year 2016 constant currency adjusted operating margin expansion of approximately 50 basis points while reported adjusted operating margins are expected to expand by approximately 40 basis points.
Our full-year guidance also assumes an adjusted tax rate similar to 2015 or approximately 19.5% and a weighted average share count of approximately 111 million shares which assumes we deploy approximately half our free cash flow on share repurchases in the year.
For the first quarter of 2016 we're forecasting reported revenues to grow organically about 3% or $530 million to $535 million and first quarter 2016 adjusted earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $0.49 to $0.51.
This concludes my prepared remarks.
Operator at this time we'd like to open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
Our first question is from Matthew Mishan with KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you for taking my questions.
On Human Health that was where my model was a little bit off for the quarter.
I think the organic growth came in around like 2%.
And I was thinking it was going to be in the 3% to 4%.
What was the driver of the lower performance in Human Health in the quarter? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think it was fundamentally – comparisons to Q4 last year we had very strong growth in Human Health last year in a couple of the areas and I would say that was probably the overlying issue.
Yeah.
And I think if you recall last fourth quarter we talked about some revenue being pulled in which created this very difficult comp.
It was about $5 million.
So that obviously was another piece that we had to compare against in 2015.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So essentially when you look at the full year Human Health and Environmental Health both grew about the same.
So PerkinElmer was a 4% Human Health was 4% and Environmental Health was 4%.
So in any given quarter there can be some sort of above and beyond either because of comparison purposes or as Andy talked about things can move in and out of the quarter.
But actually it was fairly consistent when you look at the full year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then the first quarter versus the full-year guidance on the organic growth I think the first quarter's 3% and then for the full year it's 3% to 4%.
Can you comment a little bit about the cadence as you go through the year as you expect a little bit more of a back-half weighted? And then maybe a little bit about the seasonality around customer order patterns in the first quarter? And is there typically little bit more of conservatism from some of your customers in the first quarter knowing that they can put some orders off into the rest of the year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think as we think about the cadence of the growth clearly it'll be a little stronger in the back half.
Some of that is just a function of we've got some new products coming out as we saw in 2015.
I think again we had some large sales in the first quarter of last year that we're sort of cycling up against particularly in the area of informatics.
And so I think as we think about it we'll see it a little bit stronger.
I think we're also a little concerned about the economic conditions in the first quarter relative to what we see for the full year.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Steve Beuchaw with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Rob I actually wanted to jump off on that the point that you just alluded to as you referenced macroeconomic conditions in the first quarter.
It would be helpful if you could just isolate what you've seen in terms of the macro impact on the outlook and how that's evolved over the last 90 days or so.
And then to the extent you're looking for improvement over the balance of the year can you give us a little bit more of a view on why it is that you're embedding that in the outlook? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So maybe it'd be helpful to just sort of walk through the end markets a little bit both from an application perspective and a geographic.
But I would say just specifically with regard to the beginning of the year versus the latter part of the year I would say it's fundamentally in a couple of areas.
I think as we've talked about in the past medical imaging I think has a little bit of a stronger headwind in the first half of the year.
So we think they could be down sort of high-single maybe low-double-digit.
And we believe we'll see that recovered in the back half.
And I think you'll also – when we think about Japan Japan I think again we expect to see a little bit more challenging in the early part of the year.
And we think that's going to moderate here in the back.
One of the reasons is because again we get easier comparisons in the back part of the year.
So I would say those are the big contributors.
But to just sort of walk through the end markets in particular I think in the case of the pharma/biotech market we saw a good 15%.
We grew sort of high-single-digits.
We think that continues to be a strong market for us maybe gets a little bit difficult from a comp particularly on the OneSource service side.
But we've got some new systems coming out in the sort of middle of the latter part of the year.
We've got some new liquid handling some cellular imagers and some reagent kits that we're excited about.
So we see that probably improving in the back half but moderating but continuing to be a pretty strong market for us.
Academic was sort of low-single for us last year.
We think that improves a little bit clearly in the U.S.
because of the NIH budget but continue to see probably flattish in Europe.
That probably stays fairly consistent through the year.
I think in the food market we've seen good strength there probably mid- to high-single-digits for 2015.
We think that continues.
The Perten integration going well.
We started to go up against some difficult comps in China because China was particularly strong for us.
But we think that probably stays fairly consistent through 2016.
I think the area that we're probably most concerned about is the industrial end market.
And for 2015 it was sort of mid-single for us.
I think going into 2016 we think it's probably going to moderate here a little bit.
And so I think we're a little concerned particularly in the first half of the year.
And so we're calling that to be sort of more low-single-digits with probably more pressure in the early part of the year and maybe improving here a little bit in the back.
And then finally on the Diagnostics side I think we feel pretty good about that.
Throughout the year that was strong for us in 2015 and we think that continues to be strong whether it's newborn whether it's our infectious disease in emerging markets or prenatal.
We think they all see pretty good strength here going into 2016 probably both in the first half as well as the back half.
And then I'll dovetail on that very briefly here.
As it relates to China and the hospital environment in China are you seeing any signs that that has stopped the sort of pace of improvement that we've seen here lately? Or is that continuing to get a little bit better? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
I think for us we continue to see nice growth in China.
Now some of that may be distorted because of the strong wins we're seeing in the blood screening area that Andy alluded to.
We're seeing very nice interim placements there and so we're quite excited about.
So it may have to do with our mix of business but we continue to forecast a strong growth in China.
And of course on the newborn side we continue to see nice growth there as well.
Really helpful.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Miroslava Minkova with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good afternoon guys.
Let me start with the top-line growth outlook.
I appreciate all the commentary on the end markets.
However historically you have started with a slightly higher more like in a 3% to 5% growth range.
And you've talked about accelerating growth towards the mid-single-digit average.
Can you maybe sort of give us the puts and takes a little bit? Why 3% to 4% this year? Is it all about the industrial markets? And how much would that be weighing on your overall top line? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think that's probably the majority of the caution I would say going into 2016 year as we're – as I said industrial for us grew mid-single-digits in 2015 and.
as we sort of look at it right now we're a little concerned about that.
So we think that's going to be in the sort of more low-single digits.
So I'd say that's probably the largest contributor to it.
I would say also on the margin I think we've talked about that medical imaging will probably be a little slower than what we've seen historically.
So I would say those are the two changes.
But as we think about the 5% versus 3% to 4% we still feel like it's in that sort of 3% to 4% range.
So I wouldn't say – I wouldn't read a significant deceleration into that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And you gave us a lot of color on the areas where you're investing.
You've stepped up R&amp;D investment over the past year and it sounds like you're stepping them up again in 2016.
Can you give us your thoughts about should you be sustaining these investments in the context of the current macro environment? And how should we think about your product flow in 2016? Can you sustain this as it has been the last few years? Or should we be seeing a more cautious stand given where industrial markets in particular are? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I would say it's a couple of things.
First of all as I sort of alluded to a little before we see some great opportunities in some of our end markets so whether it's in the reproductive health whether it's in food whether it's emerging diagnostics or the laboratory services.
And we think it would be unfortunate to not invest in those opportunities because we think there'll be potentially significant growth down the road.
That's number one.
I think the second thing is we're starting to see I think good insight into the opportunity to expand gross margins.
I think it's an area where if you look over the last couple years while we've had good operating margin expansion it's largely come from leveraging of our operating expenses.
And as we've done some factory rationalization in shipping in the past we're now sort of going into the factories themselves and driving Lean initiatives and focusing more on the supply chain.
And so I think we're more confident that over the next couple years we'll be able to see improved gross margin and use that to sort of in some ways invest more in the businesses.
And I would say the third aspect of it is I think we're trying to be more focused on where we're investing.
And I think what you'll see going forward is a more concerted effort to invest in those areas where I think we've got leadership positions and terrific capabilities.
And so I think it's a combination of all those things.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Sounds good.
And maybe if I could sneak in a final one.
The foreign exchange surprise on the bottom line you called that out of about $0.02 per share.
It seems like at least relative to my motto that wasn't that big of a difference on top line.
Was there something about the mix of currency that happened this quarter? Where was the surprise? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think if you look at relative to when we guided in October until the end of the year you saw some significant movement on foreign exchange not only with some of the major currencies but probably in particular in the emerging markets.
So I think when you look at our split of our international of course we've got a fairly heavy concentration in emerging markets and if you look at the movement that's occurred in the fourth quarter it's been much more significant on the emerging market side.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you guys.
And I'll get back in queue.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Derik de Bruin with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good afternoon.
Hey Derik.
Hey a couple of questions.
So looking at the – if I heard you right Andy you said 40% reported operating margin expansion in 2016.
So that's about 18.1%-ish in 2016.
So can we talk a little bit about forward operating margin expansion and that 20% target? I mean obviously FX has been a huge hit to the margin target that you laid out back there (35:02).
So can you just put this in terms of thinking about the longer-term trajectory where's this going? Is 20% 22% still in the cards? I think it is.
I think we've made a conscious decision though as Rob mentioned to invest some of that back.
Our goal is not to get to 20% 22% at all cost.
So we're investing some of that back this year.
But I think underlying all this is the fundamental growth that I think still supports the 60 basis points to 80 basis points.
And I think we're going to derive potentially more upside from that with some things that are going on in our gross margin that Rob just mentioned.
So I think at this stage it may not be completely linear but I think two things.
One is we're going to continue to do the things that drive operating margin whether that be Lean or indirect spend.
But I think a lot of these investments that we're making in new products are going to start to convert into revenues that are going to be higher margin as well.
So I think if you look at it from a three-year or four-year point of view which is the way we look at it we still feel very very good about our ability to hit that 20% to 22% operating margin.
Great.
So I want to talk a little bit about the acquisition you just did the Vanadis for the NIPT technology.
So a couple of questions on this.
First one is what's going to be the incremental R&amp;D spend to sort of get that to market? I mean I know just looking at the white paper that they have out I mean I know there's a proof of principle.
And they've had some clinical trials – clinical data that's out.
But it still actually looks like it's a ways.
Like what's the investment what's the timeframe before that's going to be ready for prime time? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I would say if you look at the incremental R&amp;D investment we're talking about this year probably half of it or so is coming from Vanadis.
And we're quite excited about the opportunity here.
And the way I would describe it is I think we understand the screening market probably better than anybody with our work in newborn and prenatal.
And our sense is it's critical to focus on the workflow.
So rather than just looking at the detection technology you've got to look at sample collection all the way to the patient report.
And while we feel that NGS is identified with NIPT it's identified a significant need and opportunity to provide an alternative to invasive screening.
Our concern all along has been that the complexity of NGS at least how it's done today is not conducive to sort of large scale population screening.
And therefore we thought and we've been looking for and continue to look at different technologies in a way that's sort of democratized non-invasive screening.
And our sense all along is it's got to be a simpler format a simpler work flow and one that can be sort of deployed into the labs that are out there today.
As you may know there's probably 1500 biochemical labs in the world doing clinical tests either through newborn or prenatal.
Our sense is probably 100 or less than 10% are actually doing some kind of NGS per clinical testing.
So clearly we need to define or I think there needs to be a simpler work flow and that's what excites us about Vanadis.
It's simple it's automated.
You use basically one instrument.
But to your point it's early and so we need to invest but we're quite excited about it.
And it fits well within our current prenatal capabilities and channel.
No.
I mean certainly it fits in with your work flow.
I mean the readers and microplate reader.
Just the question I have on it I guess from a technical standpoint and maybe you may need to go with this offline is that I know it does a – you take the cell-free DNA fragments and you convert them into circles like that.
And I guess it's like what's the efficiency in terms of doing the conversion and the rolling circle like this? And then we can – this is may be too technical but I'm just curious to see if it's high enough efficiency to sort of deliver the counts that you need on this.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think our guys have looked at it.
And of course the other thing it uses imaging technology with fluorescence and we understand that well.
But to your point it's early days and we'll continue to invest in it but we're quite excited about it.
And this is a team that's been successful in the past and so we're feeling pretty good about.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Schenkel with Cowen &amp; Co.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon guys and thank you for taking my questions.
So first topic is margin expansion.
You've guided us to model I think it's 50 basis points of constant currency operating margin expansion.
This is a bit below what I think many were expecting.
So two parts to just trying to get at this topic.
One does this guidance fully capture the margin relief associated with the inventory issues you're working through last year associated with the Waters' LC deal? And then secondly keeping in mind that part of the reason margin isn't higher is that you plan to hide an investment in R&amp;D.
You've been talking about your R&amp;D investment leading to new product acceleration at the top line.
Really is that being a major driver to revenue growth or revenue acceleration? It's not apparent based on recent results and your guidance that this is happening.
So can you just talk about whether you did hit your 2015 new product revenue target of $35 million and what's embedded into 2016 revenue guidance for new products? Okay.
Doug this is Andy.
Maybe I'll take the first part of the question and Rob will take the second part of the question.
Our stated goal is and continues to be we think we can with mid-single-digit growth drive operating margin expansion in the 60 basis points to 80 basis points some cases higher.
We made a conscious decision this year because of a couple of what we think are very promising R&amp;D programs to invest.
And so that is really the headwind to the margins.
We're going to continue to try to drive more but I think we feel like it's prudent to come out with a number that we feel like that we're comfortable with at least at this point in the year.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
And what I would say is first of all relative to the NPIs I think we've talked about that we've exceeded the $35 million that we laid out early in 2015 from the new product.
I think it was probably closer to $40 million actually when you look at the results.
And I would say as we go here in early 2016 we think we'll do at least that amount if not more.
So I would say the new products are doing well and we're getting them out into the marketplace.
I think the thing to consider though is and I've sort of mentioned this in the prepared remarks is we set some goals together – put some goals out there in January that talked about 3% to 5% EPS growth margin expansion.
And despite some of the challenges from an economic perspective we met or exceeded all of those.
So I would say the NPIs are doing well but of course some of the things where some of the other end markets have been a little bit more challenging from a macroeconomic perspective is offsetting the progress we're making on the NPIs.
Okay.
And one more.
The commentary on industrial exposure I mean I think we're all hearing what's going on in the news and seeing some of the data.
But your commentary is a bit more negative than I think what we've heard from others in the group thus far.
Your percentage of sales exposure isn't all that different from the diversified tools peers.
So I'm just trying to get at what's driving this for you? And why would this be tougher in Q1 and improve over the year? Sorry to be basic about this but it's just hard to understand why this would be a temporary cyclical industrial concern.
Is it comps? Or is it something else? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So maybe I'd sort of clarify.
So let me separate.
The industrial concern is one of a full-year concern.
And as I said it's as simple as we grew mid-single in 2015 and we think that moderates to low-single.
So that's not necessarily a Q1 issue.
The Q1 issue is more tied to medical imaging and some sort of large revenue recognition that we had in informatics in the first quarter.
So those two are separate.
The industrial one is more of sort of an annual issue.
I don't know if it's unique for us based on our product mix but we are a little concerned about it.
To your point it's not a huge exposure for us.
But on the margin it could be 30 basis points or 40 basis points of growth there.
And then I think the other one is we're concerned about the comp on pharma.
And so instead of growing high-single-digits as we did in 2015 we probably think that moderates to sort of mid-single.
Those are basically the two things as we look into 2016 versus 2015 that we think are different.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All right.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Tycho Peterson with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
It's actually Patrick Donnelly in for Tycho.
Maybe just looking at the China screening market can you talk about the impact from moving – the Year of the Goat last year was a bit of a headwind moving through Year of the Monkey this year.
Maybe just talk through how the birth rates were impacted last year and what kind of tailwind that could lead to screening revs this year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So if we look at 2015 births in China were down about 10%.
So we think it recovers that and maybe goes a little bit more.
It's a little hard to parcel that out specifically because you've also got the one-child relaxation.
But our sense is you will see births up this year relative to China and whether that's high-single-digits or low-double-digits it's probably in that type of range.
Okay.
And then staying in China just on the nucleic acid testing market there was a delayed implementation there.
Can you just talk through where we stand with the tenders and what the impact on 2016 could be from that market? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So we saw a very strong tender activity particularly in the fourth quarter.
And so to a large extent while we slowed down early in the year I would say they sort of more than made up for that with the strong activity in the fourth quarter.
And I think as we – or as Andy mentioned in his comments we are very pleased with our win rate there.
So our expectation is as we sort of get to the latter part of 2016 we'll start to see some of the ramp up in the reagents.
Normally what we've seen historically there's probably a six-month implementation to when they get the instruments put in place and sort of they run some controls and tests and those types of things.
So our expectation is we'll see the benefits of the win that we saw in fourth quarter in the latter part of 2016.
Are you still thinking that business could ramp to call it $50 million over the next three years? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Yeah.
That's right.
Yeah.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We feel good about that.
We're north of $10 million this past year and with these placements in the reagent flow coming through it'll ramp really quickly.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
Our next question is from Jonathan Groberg with UBS.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thanks.
Andy just I wasn't sure I exactly understood your answer.
So for 2017 do you still think you're going to do 20% operating margin? 2017? No I didn't – I actually wouldn't respond to that.
We were talking longer term.
But I would say given the investment and depending on where FX is I think it's still the goal.
But I think if FX continues to be a headwind it's going to be a difficult goal.
And again as I mentioned before we're not really trying to get to 20% just to get to 20%.
We're trying to do it in a fairly logical methodical way and invest back.
And again we made a conscious decision for 2016 to make those investments.
Sure.
I get that.
Your target before had been 20% and from your previous answer it wasn't clear to me.
So yeah we should adjust for FX and maybe some of these investments in terms of what we're thinking about for out margin in 2017.
I think that's fair.
I mean if you go back to our 18% guidance I mean we came in at 17.6% that year and the difference was FX.
So I mean there are going to be things that impact our ability to get there but that's still our goal is to stripping that out and get to 20%.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I would say John we're trying to control the things that we can control and obviously FX is a difficult one to do.
I think if you went back and tried to do it on sort of a pro forma basis based on a euro of $1.25 or something when we set this up my sense is we probably could get to the 20%.
But as we sit here at $1.10 for the euro or whatever I think that's going to be more of a challenge.
The other thing is when recently in January we came in and rather talked about a 2017 target we've talked more about a longer-term 2020 target and felt like we could go another 400 basis point to 22%.
So I think that's how we're modeling it.
As we model that we had R&amp;D going up the 6% of sales or a 50% increase in R&amp;D and the way we're offsetting that is we expect 300 basis points of gross margin expansion and about 150 basis points of SG&amp;A.
Okay.
Thanks for the clarification.
And then Rob PerkinElmer has obviously been on a journey for a while and I think you made a distinct point to say look you're not trying to be all things to all people.
You want to focus in the four key categories where you think you can be a real leader in your markets.
And I'm just curious as you've done the analysis and thought about the strengths that you want to have as a company and the leadership positions how does – is it about throwing more money in some of these categories? Is it about being smarter in some of those categories? Is it about – is there more you can do from a business development standpoint maybe divesting out of certain assets and utilizing those funds to invest more of the M&amp;A to increase your competitive position? I'm just kind of curious internally how you kind of come to the decision to jack to boost the R&amp;D spending? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Well first of all I think it's all the above.
I mean but some we have more control over than others.
So in some of the more attractive areas or areas where we have stronger positions we'd like to be more active on the business development side or M&amp;A side but again that's hard to predict.
So we'll continue to look there.
But in the meantime we'll try and control the things we can control.
And so some of that is where we see opportunities and we want to be able to do that.
But as I mentioned before this is always going to be a balance for us.
I mean we're not – it's going to be rare in a situation where we would come out and say we're not going to grow margin or EPS at all.
But I think we're constantly trying to walk a balance between making sure we're returning cash to the shareholders and expanding operating margins but at the same time investing in those areas that we think have great long-term prospects.
So it really gets down to focus and prioritization.
And so one of the things I was trying to lay out earlier is to say look I think you're going to see a much more differentiated and focused investment profile at PerkinElmer going forward.
And I think the four areas that I identified are ones that are clearly getting a disproportionate part of the investment.
And for the foreseeable future I think that'll be the case.
And just one last one on that a bit of a follow-up.
You mentioned Andy I think 50% of your cash flow to buybacks.
Should we assume – is there anything in the pipeline that you think could happen from an M&amp;A standpoint? And should we assume that those four categories that you listed is where you'd be most interested from an M&amp;A standpoint as well? Or is there a chance you'd go to a new pillar? I think that's right.
I mean this is half our free cash flow we still have.
As I mentioned we're 1.7% net debt to EBITDA so we still have some leverage as well.
And we think we have a number of things in the pipeline.
So I would say it's really no different than any other time we've gone to it in a year.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ross Muken with Evercore.
Your line is open.
I'm just going to touch quickly on a question that was sort of just asked.
But as you think about the sort of transformation of the asset and it's very clear you're kind of prioritizing growth here and that obviously makes sense given what longer term drives value.
I guess as you've seen some of the transactions already year-to-date in the market within or around some of the areas that you play I guess when you think about your ability to execute at least maybe something moderately larger.
Because it's been a bit of time since we've seen you do something more than sort of a small tuck-in.
Is it always price is it sort of a debate internally on fit is it maybe not the right time? I'm just trying to get a sense for – again given just the multitude of stuff that we've seen I'm not asking you to comment on anything specifically as you think about it the various reasons? And then what's likely in your mind changed to allow you to maybe do something a little bit more substantial? Or are we okay with sort of just the small tuck-ins? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I would say first of all it starts with strategy and fit right? I mean I think when we think about our acquisition pipeline we set forth our priorities or what our highest priorities are and then we look for the assets that will continue to build our capabilities in those applications or end markets that we think are most attractive and fit best with our strategy.
So I think it starts there.
Then of course if you decide a strategic fit it then gets the valuation and can we get good financial returns.
And of course one of the things we're always looking at is the alternative is either to invest back in the company or quite frankly invest in PerkinElmer by buying back stock.
So that's the process that it goes through.
But clearly it starts with a strong strategic fit and attractive assets.
I mean as you pointed out I mean I think going forward and I think we've said for some time probably the more likely scenario is we do more sort of bolt-on transactions and maybe bolt-ons by their nature hopefully get bigger.
But as I think when we look at the opportunity or the alternative to do something larger either because of fit strategy or valuations we don't see much out there quite frankly.
Makes sense Rob.
And maybe I can just sense from the degree of the questions obviously maybe modest disappointment on sort of the 8% FX neutral growth.
I mean it seems to me in this environment that that's a reasonable outcome given the investments.
But I guess as you think about the go-forward I'm not asking for specific long-term guidance but one would think again to my prior point the investments you're making should ultimately yield better top line and then hopefully then more margin expansion.
So I guess as we think about the next few years obviously going forward I mean clearly your goal is to be at a materially higher earnings growth rate correct? I mean I guess when you were debating this with the board was the trade-off yes we may be less on currency neutral this year but the hope is this will yield a better outcome than where we were maybe prior to these investments going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think absolutely.
I mean I think the goal is that we make some investments this year but that puts us in a stronger position going forward.
And so the thought here is that as you go out a couple years both the top line and the corresponding EPS growth accelerates.
And so I mean that's the purpose of sort of taking it up.
So again it was just some significant opportunities we saw in the marketplace and we think now's the time to make the investment.
And even though let's say relative to our historical track record the EPS growth is a little lower we think it's the appropriate investment to make.
And over time we think this will yield significant financial returns and a stronger company.
Makes sense.
Thanks Rob.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Dane Leone with BTIG.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thank you for taking the questions.
Just a point of clarification in terms of the commentary.
Do you guys consider 3% mid-single-digit growth or low-single-digit growth? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No I mean generally the way we think about it is we would say sort of 4% 5% and 6% as mid and 1% 2% and 3% as low.
Okay.
So kind of in that context and in line with some of the other questioning on the call how do you think about the natural growth rate? You guys have been kind of on that mid- to low-single-digit rate for a while now.
And arguably by comparison other peers in your group kind of have put up some higher growth even despite being conservatively larger.
Do you feel that you might just be kind of investing in structurally lower growth markets and maybe you need to kind of consider or reconsider where you're kind of focusing over the long term for exposure? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I guess I would maybe initially take exception to your premise.
So I guess if I look back six years I can only think of one year where we grew less than 4%.
So I would say five years of the last six years we grew mid-single-digits.
Okay.
I mean do you think that kind of 4% is the right growth rate? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think you've got to look at it first of all if you go back a couple years it was higher than that but I think you also need the consideration is if you look over the last couple years I'm not sure the macroeconomic environment was one that when you look across the globe particularly lately in the emerging markets it's been a little challenging.
Of course 28% of our revenue – and this is something we've worked on because we think longer term it's got strong prospects but with 28% of our revenue in emerging markets places like Brazil Russia et cetera that's created a little bit of a headwind.
So actually I feel pretty good with despite what we've seen in some of the challenging macroeconomic environments that we've been able to put 4% organic growth up.
Feel pretty good about it quite frankly.
Okay.
So in terms of the growth rate do you think 19% without the FX adjustment is the right operating margin if we look to 2017 now? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I don't know that we want to get into sort of forecasting 2017 or 2018 or 2019.
I mean I think what we've said is here's our forecast for 2016.
I think going forward our expectation will be we'll continue to invest but we'll get hopefully good gross profit and gross margin expansion.
And again we've set a goal out there by 2020 to be at 22%.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Bill Quirk with Piper Jaffray.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thanks.
Good afternoon everybody.
First question...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Bill.
Hi there.
First question Rob I guess can you help us think a little bit about the academic market in Japan kind of what are you seeing and are we starting to see any funding shake loose? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well the academic market in Japan has been challenging for us probably all of 2015.
I was there a little while ago and I would say I'm not optimistic we're going to see a big turnaround there anytime soon.
I would say maybe the back half.
I would say the only thing that's potentially happening is the comparisons obviously get easier this year.
So maybe we'll see some release of some funding but I think it continues to be challenging.
I think what we're seeing in our business is the consumables still to do okay but I would say in the capital equipment area is where the challenge has been.
And unfortunately in Japan for us it's probably more of an instrument play than it is a consumable play.
So we're hopeful that we'll see some improvement soon but I'm not optimistic at least in the first half of the year.
Got it.
Understood.
And then and you can probably categorize this as somewhat of an oddball question but it's certainly garnering a lot of press.
So Zika virus if we think about newborn screening kind of how much exposure do you have in South America and are you guys keeping an eye on this at all? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean Brazil for us is not a large that's probably the majority of where our newborn screening business is.
We're growing in Mexico.
But I would say there's sort of pluses and minuses I mean obviously to the extent it reduces birth rate that's not great.
But I would tell you it is increasing sort of awareness of the whole sort of newborn health and newborn screening.
So we're actually getting a number of inquiries as to sort of the opportunity to focus more and more on the newborn screening in Latin America.
So it's obviously an unfortunate situation currently but I think longer-term it is raising some awareness.
Okay.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Our next question is from Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon guys.
Appreciate you guys taking the question.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
There's been a lot of – yeah there's been a lot of inquiry around M&amp;A so far but I was interested in maybe exploring divestitures.
I think you guys probably don't get enough credit for having been proactive modifying the portfolio over the years.
I'm curious if divestitures are in any way part of the operating plan over the next few years to hit your goals on the financials.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think as we become more focused and prioritize our investments I think there probably will be a couple product lines that over the next year or two years probably become strategic for us.
So I mean I don't know if it'll be a significant amount of revenue but I wouldn't be surprised if in 2016 and probably in 2017 you see a little bit more focus on the portfolio which will entail disposing of some of the product lines.
Got it.
And then maybe a follow-up on the organic growth side.
You had a lot of questions around the sort of sustainable organic growth rate.
Do you guys need to do M&amp;A to hit that mid-single-digit range that you aim for just in the context of the current macro? Or do you think some tuck-in M&amp;A would be needed to get you to that mid-single-digit range? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No I don't think so.
I mean I think as we look at the portfolio we have and we look at the end markets and I think one of the things we didn't do (1:03:24) is just sort of shift the weighting a little bit.
And obviously that's – part of the way we're doing that is through investment.
But we have a number of our businesses and product lines that are growing well into the high-single-digits and low-double-digits.
It's just that we've got to grow out in some of the areas that are a little bit slower growth.
We've talked about it in the past.
I mean we've got a strong position in radiochemicals and radiometric detection.
It's a great business.
We make a lot of money.
But that every year probably grows low to mid – or declines low- to mid-single-digits.
And so we've got a couple of those that obviously put a little pressure.
But so over time as we shift the weighting to the higher growth areas I think mid-single-digit is the appropriate number for us.
Got it.
Thanks a bunch.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Dan Arias with Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Afternoon.
Thanks for the question.
Rob just to go back to the industrials are you able to put some numbers to the impact of what's going on in the energy sector on your GC and your ICP-MS franchises? I do appreciate that the exposure is smaller but kind of just trying to better understand the effect that rate closures and oil prices are having as we read what our energy guys are publishing.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I would say the industrials exposure for us across the company is probably in the maybe 10% or so.
So it's not a huge number.
If I was sort of prioritizing industrial exposure it starts with sort of fine chemical and petrochemical.
So oil and gas is sort of a little further down.
I think where we're seeing it though so it's not specific to oil and gas or sort of natural resources.
It's the sort of knockoff effect that I think it's having.
So we're seeing the impact of some countries that are relying on oil revenue.
Clearly they're pulling in.
Clearly in the emerging markets the lower dollar or the stronger dollar is having an impact.
So I think the concern on the industrial side for us is more broad-based than it is specific to oil and gas.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Jeff Elliott with Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks.
First one for Andy here.
Could you give a guidance number for free cash flow for 2016? And then you talked about using half of that on buybacks.
How should we think about the pacing of buybacks during the year? Yeah.
I think for 2016 we're going to shoot for what we've always shot for which is one times net income.
So that'll be about $300 million of free cash.
This is the first year we've had a three handle on our operating cash flow.
So we hope that this year we'll have our three handle on our free cash flow.
So that's basically $150 million in buyback.
I think you'll see that through the year maybe a little bit more front-loaded but it will probably average to a weighted average share count of 111 million shares.
So you can kind of do the math on that.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Dan Leonard with Leerink.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
I was hoping you could perhaps elaborate further on the sources of the 70 bps in gross margin expansion you're expecting in 2016.
Rob I think you made a comment about Lean earlier but I thought there might be more to say.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I would say a number of things we're doing.
Some of it is Lean and the in fact through we did get more efficiency and where we'll see that is sort of expand our capacity.
And then consequently we were looking at actually pulling some stuff that we've outsourced historically in so we think we can get some savings there.
I think clearly in the supply chain is I think we've talked about before.
When we were moving in a number of the factories we've been probably or we weren't as aggressive on the supply chains.
So we're putting plans to do that.
And then I think the other thing that will help is clearly the mix shift as we – partly the new products come out also as we sort of focus on these areas that have a tendency to be higher growth and higher margin.
So I think the combination of those will make up the 70 basis points.
I would say we're assuming for 2016 very little price.
And so I know if we can get some price that'd be great.
But our assumption is that price is pretty flat for us.
And so it's really coming from productivity and mix.
And our next question is from Paul Knight with Janney Montgomery.
Your line is open.
Rob earlier in your dialogue you had mentioned the software acquisitions coming together along with your other focused M&amp;A in Life Science.
Can you talk about how the software business looks like Cambridge and Spotfire and kind of that convergence point you're starting to see? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think it continues to perform well.
It had a good 2015.
I think we're forecasting probably high-single-digits for it in 2016.
And our strategy in the informatics area is that we've built some great capabilities around the ability.
For example Spotfire is a very powerful tool with data.
And then of course we've got our electronic notebook which is great at sort of collaborating the data.
And so what we're doing now is building that bridge because the challenge is getting access of that data sort of easily.
So what we're looking to do is take – if you think about ELN as a data repository and you think of Spotfire as the ability to give you good analytics and visualization we're now working on that sort of in between that gap.
So our approach is to make sure that we get the right data to the right people very easily in sort of a scalable very useable format.
And we're getting a lot of receptivity around that and we're building some terrific capabilities.
And then when we do that it allows us to better leverage what we're doing on the instrument side and build that linkage.
So we fundamentally create the informatics and the software to allow people to take data out of a repository analyze it real well and then we facilitate getting that information into the repository through our instrument in imaging and other capabilities.
And we're seeing a fair amount of receptivity with a number of our customers.
Our next question is from Steve Willoughby with Cleveland Research.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my call.
It's actually Josh in for Steve tonight.
Just making sure I didn't miss it did you guys provide a tax rate on the quarter? We did.
It's for the year.
We basically said flat to 2015 or 19.5%.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Brandon Couillard with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Hi.
This is Sachin in for Brandon.
Thanks for taking our questions.
Will you discuss the strength in operating margins you saw in the period particularly in Environmental Health? Was it a lot stronger than we had in our model? And speaking of like the 50 bps of core operating margin expansion for the year would you divide that up between like Human Health and Environmental Health? Sure.
For the quarter on the Environmental Health side we saw a couple of things.
One is we saw a very positive mix shift into MATCAR (1:11:09) and we also talked about some licensing revenue very high margin.
And then we also did a lot of work in the fourth quarter around some cost controls.
And so I'd say that's about half and half.
And again they had a fairly easy comp from a year ago.
It's kind of the flip of that with Human Health where we saw very very strong margins in the fourth quarter of 2014 so a much more difficult comp for them.
So a little bit of the comp a little bit of the mix and some cost controls.
As far as the 50 bps I think that it's fairly evenly split.
If you look at the full year for 2015 I think both businesses contributed.
I think if you move forward to 2016 and look at the margin expansion you're going to see more of it coming out of Environmental Health because we're really making the investments in the Human Health segment.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
If you look at the four areas that I highlighted three of those come out of Human Health: so the reproductive health the emerging diagnostics and the laboratory services.
So clearly there's much more investment going back into Human Health this year and so the majority of the margin expansion we expect will come out of Environmental.
Thank you.
And our last question is from Bryan Brokmeier with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
Rob could you elaborate a little bit on the strengths the level of strength you're seeing in the newborn screening market in the U.S.? And the benefit you might be seeing from any more – if you're seeing any more states expanding their test menus including anyone yet adopting LSD screening? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I would say first of all the strength that we've seen historically has been probably more outside the U.S.
than in the U.S.
I mean U.S.
is growing but if you look at the strength it continues to be in emerging markets in China and those types of areas.
What I was referring to was the number of investments that we're making in the LSDs and the TMV and those types of things which we're excited about but you're probably not going to see those into the U.S.
market probably till end of 2016 2017 at the earliest.
So these are investments that you're probably not going to see.
The U.S.
the growth there is coming from our SCIDs platform that we introduced about a year or so ago.
So like I said we're excited about these investments.
We think they continue to build out our strong position in the marketplace.
But I think a number of these will not have meaningful revenue in the U.S.
probably till 2017 because generally what we're doing with these tests is probably going to Europe first.
So we'll see them introduced in Europe probably as a CE-marked IVD and then you'll see it later in the U.S.
Thank you.
I'm not showing any further questions.
So I'll now turn the call back over to Rob Friel Chairman and CEO.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you very much.
First of all let me wrap up by again thanking you for joining us this afternoon.
And I want to reinforce the terrific opportunity we have to continue to innovate across our capabilities of detection imaging software and service to enable critical insights that will have a dramatic impact on improving human environmental health for the better.
I hope you all have a great evening.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our program.
And you may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day and a great weekend.