Good morning.
My name is Amanda and I will be your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the ProLogis First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Melissa Marsden Managing Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications with ProLogis.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Amanda.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
By now you should all have received an email with a link to our supplemental.
But if not it is available on our website at www.prologis.com under Investor Relations.
This morning we'll hear from Walt Rakowich CEO to comment on the market environment; and then Bill Sullivan CFO will cover results and guidance.
Additionally we are joined today by Gary Anderson Global Head of Operations and Fund Management; and Mike Curless Managing Director of Global Investments.
This conference call will contain forward-looking statements under Federal Securities Laws.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates and projections about the market and the industry in which ProLogis operates as well as management's beliefs and assumptions.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and actual operating results may be affected by a variety of factors.
For a list of those factors please refer to the forward-looking statement notice in our SEC filings.
I’d also like to add that our first quarter results’ press release and supplemental do contain financial measures such as FFO and EBITDA that are non-GAAP measures and in accordance with Reg G we have provided reconciliation to those measures.
Our prepared remarks today will be shorter than typical and we intend to leave about the same amount of time for Q&amp;A.
But unfortunately we do need to end today's call a few minutes before the hour.
And as we've done in the past to give a broader range of investors and analysts the opportunity to ask their questions we're going to ask you to please limit your question to one at a time.
Before I turn the call over to Walt I'd like to add that this will mark my 50th and pending [indiscernible] to my final conference call with ProLogis.
On behalf of Robin and Realty the entire Investor Relations team of ProLogis we'd like to say it's been a pleasure working with you over the year and we appreciate your support.
Walt? Thanks Melissa and good morning everyone.
It's been an eventful quarter with a global events and merger related activities.
So let me comment first on our markets and then Bill will comment further on the earnings and pending merger with AMB.
Overall the steady recovery and industrial real estate continues.
And while issues such as sovereign debt concerns rising energy costs military actions and the devastating earthquake in Japan contributed to some deferrals of customer leasing and development decisions we remain encouraged by the continued firming of market fundamentals that we're seeing.
In general the key supply demand indicators we've been talking about for the past few quarters are still at play.
Globally we're not seeing a meaningful increase in speculative development and don't expect to see much for the foreseeable future.
In the top North American markets we track completions with just 2.1 million square feet in the first quarter.
Gross absorption in our North American markets was over 21 million square feet compared to 17 million square feet in the fourth quarter of 2010 marking the fourth consecutive quarter of positive absorption.
And we are seeing the same trends in our international markets as well.
In addition utilization within our facilities remains high.
And so we believe these indicators support the case for longer-term occupancy gains and rental rate growth as economic recovery progresses.
As for our operating portfolio our overall lease percentage was down 30 basis points from Q4 and quarterly leasing activity was lower relative to our Q1 leasing last year.
However let me just add a little bit of color to the numbers.
First almost every year our occupancies fall a bit in Q1 due to the seasonal nature of the business.
Second our pool of properties is much smaller than last year due to the sale of direct owned and fund assets in Q4.
In addition fund explorations were at a much lower level of this year than last due to early renewals.
And so these factors account for an overall lower level of leasing activity on year-over-year basis for Q1.
Lastly we picked up an astonishing 108 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2010 which is an unusually large increase in any one quarter.
I think it's important perhaps more important to focus on the overall leasing trend over Q3 which is still up 78 basis points.
As for rental rates on turnovers in our same-store portfolio the trend is also improving.
Rental rates declined 9.2% in the first quarter an improvement over decline of 10.5% in Q4 and an average quarterly decline of 11.8% last year.
On the capital deployment front our plan continues to be limited from an acquisition perspective and more focused on the development of new high-quality facilities where we can leverage off of our customer relationships and land positions to create value.
For the quarter we started approximately $100 million of new development which was 83% pre-leased.
At today's cap rates we believe value creation from these starts is approximately $15 million.
We continue to have a strong pipeline of proposals and pursuits.
And at this point in time we remain very comfortable with our stand alone guidance of $800 million to $1 billion in starts for the year although it may be more back-end loaded given the uncertainty in the timing of starts in Japan.
As we did last year we plan to continue to recycle our capital from older properties in secondary markets to fund our new development.
For the quarter we closed on the sale of the majority of Catellus retail and mixed-use assets.
So this transaction combined with smaller one-off dispositions generated over $400 million of proceeds.
Our goal here is to continue to actively improve our geographic diversification and enhance the quality and concentration of our core industrial portfolio.
Now let me spend a moment discussing the earthquake that hit Japan in March.
As we all know it was one of the largest earthquakes ever measured.
And we're thankful that all of our employees and customers working on our buildings were okay.
Our Japan team has done an incredible job of ensuring everyone's safety and minimizing the impact on our customers and their operations.
Let me tell you we are truly fortunate to have a great team of employees working out for us in Japan.
So those of you who have followed us for some time may recall our presentation of ProLogis' patented seismic isolation system at past investor days.
As a result of this superior engineering and the overall quality of our facilities with the help of our team the majority of our customers were operational within 24 to 48 hours.
This is truly remarkable.
In Sendai the area that was hardest hit our building suffered minor damage other than flooding.
Total cost for clean up and cosmetic repairs to all of our buildings in Japan is expected to be approximately $7 million which was accrued for during the quarter.
Now this is a very very small amount when compared to our total invested capital of over $1.7 billion for all of our properties in Japan.
Prior to this catastrophic event the real estate market in Japan was already showing strength.
Since then increase for our facilities have significantly increased especially from companies in older less structurally sound buildings.
As a result we expect to see a substantial amount of new demand in a flight to quality by the second half of this year.
This could have a positive impact on the amount of development we do in Japan later this year and into 2012.
As for our merger with AMB we remain somewhat limited in what we can say except that our filings and integration remains on track.
And Bill will have a few more specifics in a moment.
Turning to PEPR last week we announced the purchase of approximately 11 million ordinary units of PEPR from a large institutional investor.
These additional shares brought ProLogis' ownership interest in PEPR to approximately 39%.
As a result of crossing the 33.3% ownership threshold we are required to launch a mandatory tender offer to acquire any or all of the remaining outstanding units subject to approval of the offer document by the Luxembourg Regulator.
As we've stated in our release last week we took this action for the benefit of all unit holders to provide them with liquidity at a strong value relative to where the shares had been trading in the last for years and relative to the NAV ]Net Asset Value]of the company.
Let me reiterate that this is an any or all tender.
Meaning that we would be comfortable buying the portion or all of the remaining units depending on unit holder interest.
In addition we have no desire to sell our interest in PEPR and expect that longer-term value will continue to be created in the years ahead.
Unfortunately given our that our offer documentation is still under review there's really is not much more I can say about our pending offer at this time.
Looking ahead we continue to be optimistic about the recovery in the global investor real estate market and the opportunities we believe will arise to leverage customer relationships and capture an increasing share of the global distribution facilities market.
And we believe the merger reinforces this optimism with the resulting platform uniquely positioned to serve customers with the facilities they need in the world's major logistics market.
It will truly be a powerful combination of people properties and relationships.
And now let me turn it over to Bill.
Thanks Walt.
This morning I plan to cover the company's first quarter results our view on 2011 standalone guidance and provide an update on the merger with AMB.
For the first quarter of 2011 we generated core FFO [funds from operation] excluding gains and items that affect comparability of $74.4 million or $0.13 per share.
To arrive at the $0.13 we added back $12.9 million or $0.02 per share of adjustments  associated with three events.
First $6.9 million represented an accrual for the cleanup and repair costs resulting from the earthquake and tsunami in Japan.
Second $3.8 million represented costs incurred associated with our pending merger with AMB.
And third $2.2 million represents workforce reduction costs associated primarily with the sale of the Catellus assets.
While first quarter performance was very much in line with our internal expectations on the fourth quarter conference call in February we stated that we expected lower FFO per share in Q1 as a result of the loss of the Blackstone NOI a partial quarter of the Catellus NOI and the full effect of the increased share count following our fourth quarter equity raise.
There were four other factors contributing to the lower FFO all which were budgeted.
First we have lower property management and other fees due to recognition of a higher level of reimbursement from the funds in Q4 as well as higher leasing fees associated with the strong Q4 leasing activity.
Second we had lower development management fees which are recognized as earned and fluctuate by quarter based on development activity.
Third we had lower FFO from funds due to higher termination fees and other settlement payments in Q4 as well as the sale of a non-core joint venture in the fourth quarter.
And finally current income tax expense increased due to various tax benefits in our European operations that were recognized in Q4.
As we move through 2011 we expect to see a modest increase in FFO each quarter.
Principally as a result of number one; increased occupancy from existing site leases and the completion and lease up of a number of properties currently under development; number two reduced G&amp;A; and number three increasing levels of capitalized interest as development activity ramps up.
Based on these expectations we remain comfortable with our standalone 2011 guidance range for core FFO of $0.62 to $0.66 per share.
Now let me update you on a couple of aspects of the merger.
As many of you know we filed the S-4 on March 11 and received comments back from the SEC in early April.
We have responded to these comments and are now waiting for further review from the SEC.
Subject to additional comments we anticipate a closing date in late May.
The merger integration activities are on target and we remain confident that we will achieve the $80 million of G&amp;A savings by the end of 2012 as well as ultimately realize  a significant improvement in our overall cost of capital.
We are all working very hard to ensure a smooth transition.
Assuming that we are able to close in late May our reported results for the full year are going to be somewhat confusing especially our second quarter results.
This is due to the fact that ProLogis as the accounting inquirer will report results from the second quarter that we'll have two months of ProLogis stand-alone operations and one month of combined company operations.
Unfortunately it will be difficult to compare these numbers with ProLogis' previously reported results.
We will do our best to communicate as clearly as possible we intend to provide clear direction on second half expectations for the combined company during May week in June.
Before I turn it back to Walt let me just add to Melissa's comments and I think we all want to thank Melissa for an incredible effort over the past 10 or 11 years.
And as well as Robin and Rosie.
That team does a fabulous job.
And with that let me turn it over to Walt.
Thank you.
Operator we can open the discussion for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from John Guinee from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Melissa by the way you did a great job.
Comparing Page 72 to Page 72 what you would see as sort of a jaw-dropping decrease in GAAP and cash NOI.
Quarter-over-quarter and annualized looks to me as if it maybe as much as about $11 million in the quarter and annualizing about $40 million was essentially the same portfolio.
Can you walk through what's going on? Did you say comparing 72 to 72? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Components of NAV for PLD.
Components of the net Asset value analysis page Pages 71 and 72 essentially when you merge if you look at your last quarter and this quarter and what you're doing is you’re you change how you did it but you merge the operating properties with the development properties.
Essentially when you look at them on an annualized NOI basis you go from $676 million as of the fourth quarter down to about $644 million of annualized NOI.
So $32 million drop.
Essentially what's the same portfolio about 168 million square feet? Let me tell you.
First of all John we can -- we need to get back to you on that because I don't have a specific answer for that other than the fact that we obviously sold the Blackstone portfolio in the fourth quarter which would have a significant drop in our NOI as well as the fund 6 through 9 that were sold in the fourth quarter as well.
And we'll have to take a look the reconciliations so we'll have Melissa get back to you on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman from Citigroup.
Bill you talked a little bit about FFO increasing throughout the year and you talked about occupancy reduced G&amp;A and higher cap interest.
But maybe you can get a little bit more granular with $0.13 in the first quarter and if you reiterated your $0.62 to $0.66 you effectively need a quarterly average of like a $0.16 to $0.18 in FFO which is almost  $20 million to $30 million of incremental FFO a quarter.
And it just seems from the items that you listed that that would tilt to get to.
So I don't know if there's a sort of comfort level probably more towards the low end of the range and then really really what gets to that amount of FFO as we move through the year? Michael let me try to give you -- just grabbing some papers but in essence we're going to experience  decent reductions in G&amp;A as we -- some of the departure of the Catellus personnel particularly Ted throughout the year has a decent movement on it  in terms of eliminating ultimately the G&amp;A associated with continued management of the Blackstone portfolio et cetera.
And so we've got a decent drop in G&amp;A scheduled for the rest of the year.
We have some tax benefits that will be generated in the rest of the year as well more likely the third quarter and the fourth quarter on that.
Our occupancy gains from things that are under development has a decent pickup as the year progresses.
And again assuming that we meet our development targets we'll probably have a $4 million to $5 million increase in capitalized interest which is a reduction of GAAP interest expense by the end of the year.
Again that will be back-end loaded.
But if you look at the last couple of -- the last three quarters looking at something on average obviously increasing throughout the year of $0.16 to $0.17 is not a bad estimate.
Michael I think the other thing to look at would be to look at last year look at the first quarter of last year where we did core FFO of about $0.11 a share.
And we ended up the year obviously in the mid-to-high 50s.
So I think it was $0.57 last year.
The first quarter at 19% and versus this year relatively pretty much the same trend.
So I think Bill has pretty much articulated we made a number of sales in the fourth quarter all of which have kicked in into the first quarter without regard to the development lease up which we clearly know we will get throughout the end of the year.
I think you should see an acceleration in the numbers.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim from Macquarie.
Could you talk a little bit more about your longer-term plans in Europe inline of what happened with PEPR in terms of long-term structure and how you plan to fund the additional share purchase in PEPR and does it have an impact on how you view PEPF fund too? No I think.
What I would say is that nothing really has changed as it relates to the way that we are going to manage or continue to manage Europe at all.
And as it relates to the financing of it I think we have to step back and wait because we have -- as I mentioned we are in the market at this point to acquire any or all.
And so a lot of it depends on what we do acquire if anything.
But clearly we have ample capacity on our line of credit and then build you may want to add to that if you want.
From a financing standpoint we have over $1 billion available on our line of credit.
Just to put things in perspective we are also in anticipation or in the case of an all relative to PEPR we lined up a UER 500 billion bridge facility.
So we have ample and more than sufficient resources to finance it.
Obviously we've stated many times in the past our focus is on deleveraging the company.
And so longer-term you can be assured that we have no interest in financing whenever we increase our ownership.
And with PEPR were purely debt and so we'll take care of that post the tender process.
But again at this point there's no certainty as to how much we'll get tendered if any.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum from UBS.
I just wanted to focus in a little bit.
It looks like as I look at the direct owned portfolio across the globe it was the U.S.
assets that had the largest sequential decline and it looks like it was a function of global [ph] lower retention rate as well as a slow down in leasing volume.
If you had to ballpark that decline how much was seasonal and how much was related to what we'll call macro issues? Can you give us some indication as to how much were broke out between seasonal and sort of a funding...
Let me answer that question because first of all I want everybody on the phone to understand very clearly that the leasing needs to be compared with the first quarter of last year first of all.
You can never compare a first quarter with a fourth quarter.
Okay? I wouldn't at least.
Because the second third and fourth quarters are always more active than the first quarter.
And so when you look at the first quarter of this year versus the first quarter of last year in the direct owned portfolio the leasing volume was down somewhere in the order of magnitude of roughly 15%.
However when you look at the sale of direct owned assets to Blackstone those assets represented roughly 13% to 14% of the wholly owned pool.
So the leasing activity is not really down relative to last year.
It has everything to do with the fact that the overall portfolio of properties are much less then they were last year first and foremost.
As you mentioned the funds in addition the funds are down.
However keep in mind that we sold a number of fund properties as well last year in funds 6 through 9.
We did a number of early renewals in the third and fourth quarter of last year in our funds which was great because it reduced the overall exposure to assets that were turning.
And if you look at the retention ratios in the funds first quarter of last year was 76% and it's 75% this year.
Yes the retention ratio was lower.
Slightly lower if you will in the wholly owned pool I think the retention ratio last year was about 71% and it's something like 66%.
But that's in my mind that's not a material difference.
And you're going to see those fluctuations quarter-to-quarter.
Having said that to answer the second part of your question is it seasonal? Absolutely.
Every year in the first quarter you have seasonal demand that basically you ramp up in the fourth quarter for people that are distributing over the holidays and the Christmas season.
And then those deals go away.
The majority of your leases expire on 12/31.
And then if you look at any one of the four quarters the majority of them expire 12/31.
So you're going to naturally have that in addition to the short-term nature.
You're going to have more terms or I should say probably less retention if you will in that first quarter.
It's hard for us to put an exact number on it but I would tell you that seasonality of it the increased early renewals that we had as well as a the lower amount of wholly-owned assets that we had as a result of the Blackstone all pretty much are the reasons why leasing activity was lower in the first quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Sloan Bohlen from Goldman Sachs.
I'll kind of stick with Ross' questions just a little bit.
The retention ratio I surely understand the idea and overall volume being down but the retention ratio being it 65% versus last years being closer to 72% was there a reason given for why either renewals weren't there? Or somebody's concerns referenced in the release about sovereign debt issues or rising energy cost.
Where those the reasons why tenants were resigning leases? It's really a good question.
It's so hard to look at on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
I'll tell you one thing one thing we do expect to see as the market gets better we actually think that our retention ratios may come down a little bit.
Because people -- in the difficult time frame for the most part people weren't moving.
That was the good news and the bad news.
The bad news was they weren't expanding.
The good news was that they weren't moving.
I believe that we will see over the course of the next year or two is a slight decline in the overall retention ratios in this business.
And it's simply because companies are expanding and sometimes you have that opportunity to fill that expansion and sometimes you don't.
And as a result of that the companies won't renew.
So we'll have to see it's really difficult to look at one quarter and I would caution you not to look at just one quarter and drop conclusion.
But I would make a macro statement that I believe overall that retentions ratios as the economy gets better will probably trend a little bit down from where they've been.
Your next question is from Steven Frankel from Green Street.
I just have a couple of questions related to the operating performance for the portfolio you excluded your completed development.
First of all can you please provide the same store number for 1Q you used to call it the adjusted portfolio on Page 53.
Secondly it looks like the U.S.
Fund occupancy which is the best proxy I think we have in here for your core portfolio ex-developments fell by about 100 bps sequentially versus about 80 bps for Europe.
Is Europe starting to catch up or are any takeaways that you can provide to us just somehow the core non-development portfolios performed.
I guess I would say two things.
I don't know Bill if you want to answer the adjusted portfolio? Let me answer that one first Steve.
Fortunately or unfortunately we've set for a year now that going into 2011 we're combining our completed development properties in our core portfolio.
And that's the way that we're tracking the data.
And so we haven't spent a lot of time looking at the separation of those two.
And we've indicated strongly we're not going to report separate measures.
For all intensive purposes our completed development portfolio was 80% leased at the end of the year.
And again I would say if you sort of want to try to -- the absolute same-store information if you want to look the lion's share by the vacancies in the old completed development portfolio sits in Europe.
And so you can track Europe most specifically as it relates to a proxy for the performance of the completed Development portfolio versus the Core portfolio.
And Steve I would say to your second question.
Where we've really began to see a real pickup in Europe which is the bright spot is in Central Europe.
One of the things we've been seeing is that the market there is a fairly thin.
And while it had been -- really over the course of the last couple of years I think hit particularly hard.
One of the things we've seen is it's rocketed back very quickly.
And it really doesn't really take but a couple of million of square feet the deals there to really move the numbers.
And I'd say if I were to look at any region in Europe that is the region that we're frankly most excited about in terms of the turnaround right now.
And that has been driving our numbers overall in terms of our overall occupancies.
In terms of not just the occupancies in the first quarter but what our expectations are for the rest of the year.
So I'd say that's the bright spot.
The difficulties in Europe continued to be Spain Italy and the Benelux are probably softer regions within Europe.
_ Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Feldman from the Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Moving on to business.
I guess the key for me here or key question I have is you compare --  I guess first is the commentary Walter that you made in the press release over being a little bit more cautious on kind of the macro concerns.
Can you talk about what regions maybe you're seeing that more than others and then within the U.S.
kind of coastal versus non-coastal?  And then also you can compare your press release versus AMB's.
Theirs was noticeably more bullish without the same tone of caution.
So I'm just trying to see if maybe you can makes sense...
See? That means we are not comparing notes.
I think Jamie it maybe a little bit of a style thing.
We both see the same things in the market.
I think -- what I'm trying to say and what we are trying to say is that we do still see steady improvement.
And if you would have ask our people out in the field they would tell you that in February and March they were kind of feeling is this thing really moving in the right direction candidly in the last three to four weeks? Our people aren't feeling really good again.
And so I think it's a little bit  -- I do think there was a little bit of caution out there being it for all honest with each other.
Let's face it.
I think January February March there are a lot of events that occurred in the world.
And I do think there were some companies that stepped back and took a bit of a pause and said what does this all mean.
But what we are beginning to see particularly in the course of last three or four weeks is that things are normalizing.
Things are moving in a good direction.
And we're seeing it in the overall markets.
So if you ask a question what markets are a little bit squishy what markets feel good.
It's all the same suspects that we've been talking about.
And I would add probably a few more.
I mean LA is doing great in the United States.
I'd say San Francisco is starting to roll it back.
Toronto still feels good and Washington D.C.
feels good.
Houston feels really good.
And if you go to Europe basically I just mentioned that Central Europe is definitely coming back.
We are really good and feeling great about France and Germany.
I mentioned a few markets that we don't feel as good about.
And frankly we feel pretty dog-gone good about Tokyo and Osaka.
Because I got to tell you I'd say that we've had more inquiries than we've ever had in Japan in just the last 30 days because there's a lot of people that are out there that are in structurally unsound buildings right now and I think that's going to drive our development.
So yes is it still a little bit patchy? Sure it is.
And these things don't cure themselves in 1 or 2 quarters.
But if you would ask us do we feel better today than we felt at the end of the fourth quarter?  And we frankly at the end of the third quarter I'd say absolutely yes.
I think there are a few months of pause.
And I think it's moving back in the right direction at this point in time.
And I would also say don't read too far into first quarter numbers.
Look at what happened to us last year and prior years.
First quarter is always low and leasing activity in general is always somewhat off in the first quarter.
And it is what it is.
But overall we feel very good about where things are heading.
Your next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana from Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> I have a question on the development pipeline.
First if you guys could just get refresh my memory in terms of the $800 million to $1 billion of development start how much of that you expect to be built-the-suit versus spec? And then second has there been any change in terms of the expected yields that you're looking for on the development projects given that it appears cap rates have certainly compressed a little bit and financing rates remain low? It sounded like on the European projects that were started during the quarter the $15 million of value creation potential is probably in line with where you were previously.
So just interested if there's been any change in the development yield.
I'm going to have Mike Curless talk a little bit about the $800 million to $1 billion.
And then I'll address some of the yields in the value creation the comment that I've made.
As Walt have mentioned we feel really good about our guidance and $800 million to $1 billion range.
I think the easy way to look at is to break it up to three regions.
Over 90% of that total volume is pretty equally split between Europe and Japan in terms of our expected volume there.
And as we mentioned before with $100 million in starts in Europe were well underway to our target there in Europe and have a good pipeline of activity behind that.
And in Japan the other 45%.
We've got four -- as you know the projects in Japan are much larger in size more expensive per square foot.
We've got four very significant projects that we feel very positive about this year.
Two were build the suites with LOIs.
And then two are spec buildings that we have been working on for down for quite some time and have high expectations to see those coming out of the ground this year.
So 90% of that pipeline is in really good shape.
And then the balance the 10% is in North America albeit the smallest piece of the pie so important part of the pie.
As Walt mentioned starts in general North America are a bit slow in the first quarter and we're seeing that too on our end.
But our history is showing than the North American volume tends to be back-end loaded.
And we're confident we'll see some good results there to.
Our pipeline just starting to fill up there with respect to building the suits.
It might sound odd everybody on the phone but I feel really really good about Japan.
On one hand you got -- you know obviously you've got difficult situation.
But on one hand you got a lot of inquiries that are coming in and we know that we will likely start more buildings.
But the flip side of that is that there maybe delays simply because  there's a lot of work that needs to happen in Japan that is much more important than ProLogis breaking ground.
And the building contractors are obviously busy.
And so we've got get to do that from a timing perspective.
But I candidly feel really good about ultimately upstarting some buildings in Japan given the tremendous interest that were seeing right now.
As it relates to the yields Brendan I think we're starting to get back in somewhat of a normal situation where we would expect somewhere in the neighborhood of 15% margins.
On our development -- cap rates have obviously compressed through out the world and that has been the good news for us.
Obviously if we have taken an impairment or I should say a series of impairments for the last couple of years on our land.
And so the bases of the land I think is much more skewed to a market price today.
There are going to be some pieces.
We have some land that we did not identify for sale that we are holding for long-term hold on our balance sheet that we could not technically take it right down on.
And so there may be some deals that come through in the future where it doesn't appear to be value creation because of the old land bases that's there.
But right now in the aggregate everything we're doing is showing a positive value creation.
And we feel pretty good about our land basis and moving forward in developing as we have in prior years.
And I'll just add that the last piece that is big picture a ballpark you should assume that about 33% of our starts this year are by target per spec versus build-to-suit.
And that could – that service [ph] could be a little higher on the specs side focused on the Japan activity.
Your next question comes from the line of David Harris from Gleacher.
Inc.</strong> Just elaborate a little bit more on the question on land and the write downs.
If do you have anymore clarity as we sit here today having to walk through what you've done through all in terms of the merger  about potential write-downs associated with the merger.
And in particular with regard to land? David I don't think so.
I think we feel pretty dog-gone good about where the values are.
And to be candid with you we have some data points.
We didn't -- I think we had in the supplemental that we only sold $9 million of land in the first quarter.
However one of the things that that doesn't show is that with the Catellus merger there is someone in the neighborhood of $60 million to $70 million of land that also got closed.
But we lumped that into the overall Catellus closing.
About $37 million.
$37 million excuse me.
In the first quarter and the rest will be...
The rest would be on the second quarter.
So we are actually selling land.
But one of the things that I do have visibility into is that we've got a number of transactions now on the land side that we think we will be selling in the course of the next one to three quarters.
Offers that have come in and so I'd say two things; one we are seeing a lot more activity.
Interestingly enough some from the governmental agencies and alike but also from developers.
I think that's a good sign but anyway.
There is more land that people are willing to buy.
And the other thing and probably more the important thing is that the data points we're seeing in terms of the offers are either at or slightly in excess of where we had written down the land down to.
I mean in some cases it might be slightly less but on the aggregate I'd say we are we feel like the numbers that we wrote the land down to parcel by parcel so far all the comps are proving it out.
I have no reason to believe that the bland prices are going to go down from here.
I believe it will go up.
So we don't have any intended land write down as a result of the merger at least on the ProLogis side I can't speak to the AMB side.
But on the ProLogis side we feel pretty dog-gone good about where our balance is.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa from ISI group.
I was wondering Walt if you were built to just a draft kind of the rent roll down for the balance of the year and I should look at into 2012.
What do you expect in given your views of leasing? I'll give you a quick comment Steve.
I'd say that the rent roll downs -- if market rents didn't move at all we would still have a year or two probably two of rent roll downs in a declining fashion.
Excuse me improving fashion.
One of the things we are beginning to see in some markets is we are beginning to see market rents actually begin to rise.
Albeit a modest pace.
If I were a betting man I would bet that we will see single-debt digit rent roll downs this year.
And I think we'll see potentially no rent roll downs next year.
Or it may be really low-single digit negative or maybe even single digit really low positive next year.
But I think it will improve substantially over the course of the next 12 to 18 months.
Having said that I think we've been very consistent with you guys in telling you that our expectation this year is we'll see negative roll downs.
Again I believe they'll be single digit.
Generally speaking one's concession and least turns of our stabilized across our markets around the world.
We've talked about this being on a market by market basis.
I think we said generally speaking the net effective rents we expect over the course of 2011 and '12 to be flat to up moving in the right direction.
So I don't think there's any really new news here.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller from JPMorgan.
It's Ralph Davis on the line with Mike.
I just was hoping you might be able provide some details in terms of the components of the Catellus portfolio that didn't close.
And just in terms of expectations when they will end up closing? Ralph we closed in the first quarter some $353 million worth of the Catellus acquisition perhaps our disposition.
And then we have basically $130 million left to close of which a good portion of that closed last week and we expect the balance of that to be closed safely in the second quarter.
And I think it's quite closer to $150 million.
But the big piece of that was L.A.
Union Station which closed last week and the rest of it is unrelated  to issues relative to TPG's.
It's predominantly focused and there are whole host of parcels that have rights of first refusal.
And so those are being acted on in large part by the parties that have the rights.
So those are closed through the quarter through Q2.
So we expect to have virtually a 100% of it closed by the end of the second quarter.
Operator we'll take two more questions.
Your next question comes from the line of David Rogers from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> You know Walt I think you guys have made a lot of comments.
I guess geographically about how the portfolios' performing and clarified a lot of the comments that you made in the press release.
But I guess going back to the acceleration of inventory comment and no speculative development are there subsets of the market not geographically but perhaps tenants or sizes that are driving  a little incremental concerns or keeping pricing weaker than  they should be at this point in time with no speculative development.
You can give color around those two points? That would be great.
I think Dave there are always are segments sub-market segments to the markets that might be a little bit weaker than others.
So It would be hard for me to put my finger on one broad statement that I could make either for the United States or for the world in that regard.
I will say this which I think is really interesting.
Statistically if you look at it starts are not really picking up meaningfully.
I actually expected that we would see more speculative starts this year.
And who knows maybe we will in the second half of the year.
But starts have actually been quite slow in the U.S.
over the course of the last couple of quarters.
And as I mentioned the deliveries in the first quarter that we track in the markets that we're in were only 2 million feet.
So annualize that and you have 8 million feet.
That's just off the charts in terms of low.
Now the starts interestingly enough in Europe in the first quarter.
We're somewhere in the neighborhood of 10 million square feet.
And that should give you a better understanding.
Europe does not have the amount of good product that you have in the United States.
And so frankly you're going to see developers starting more now over 80% of that was build-to-suit.
And so you don't have a lot of spec starts that are really happening in Europe but you are having the reconfiguration that we talked about and that is driving development demand.
I think that's going to continue.
But for the most part I don't think we're going to see much speculative development here for the next 12 months and that's about all I can look out.
Any sort of softness that we see in the market will be completely soft because of demand not because of what we see in terms of new product coming online.
But turning that around a little bit and if you think about what customer segments are actually taking new space and we track that.
If you take a look at the last five quarters I mean clearly the three PL segment is always taking space but you need to go a level beyond that.
And if you look at those customer segments that are taking much more it's the discount or is the supermarkets and convenient stores that makes perfect sense because in a recession folks go to the cheaper places just to buy goods.
Also with the net category you've got Internet retailers who are taking a tremendous amount of sales over the course of the last five quarters.
And again paper and plastics companies which makes sense.
It's inventories are increasing a straight levels are increasing across the world.
So I think that you can expect continued demand from those customer segments.
And hopefully those will drive our business and build-to-suit development.
Dave hope that answers your question.
Operator I can take one more.
Your last question comes from the line of Chris Canton from Morgan Stanley.
Just wanted to follow up on development in Japan.
What is your capacity there? If some looking at the K-write it looks like you have about is it 52 acres and about 163 million in land? And If so what type of pipeline is that support? That's a great question.
I'm actually glad you asked that.
You'll notice that we actually did make a land purchase this quarter and that should not be a signal to everybody that we're going to go out and buy a bunch of land.
But the fact of the matter is that there are areas in the world where we want to continue to grow our development business and where we are land short.
Now 163 million of land may not or might sound like a lot.
But in Japan that's really three or four sites.
It's not a lot and it can be chewed up very quickly through the development which we think will probably chew up a lot of it this year and so we are if you will land light in Japan and we will -- and it's -- frankly it's difficult to be land heavy in Japan just because of how expensive it is.
And so I think you'll find that we will over the course of the next year to two or three years we will continue to buy land in Japan on an as-needed basis but we will inventory very little of it.
In other words as we buy it we'll be putting it into production as opposed to holding onto it and inventorying it.
That's a great observation.
And as I said I think the 163 million probably gets chewed up in three or four deals.
It would be virtually 0 after that.
That's pretty consistent going back a year ago now we were talking about our land bank and trying to give you guys a heads-up.
And if we're ever going to start buying land in the near future it's going to be Japan because we were land constrained.
I'd just like to say and I want to echo what Bill said before we hang up I think all of you most of you at least have worked with Melissa Robin [ph]  And Rosie [ph] and the team.
And I think they are just absolutely the best IR team in the land certainly and perhaps in the world.
I really do.
And I think all of you would agree.
And so if you could all over the course of the next couple of weeks give them a call give them a pat on the back.
And I think they know what job they've done but it's always nice to hear it from others.
And I'd just like to say thank you congratulations guys for an unbelievable run.
You've done a terrific job.
And I will miss you as my partner.
Thank you so much.
And operator I think we can end the call.
Thank you for participating in today's ProLogis First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call will be available for replay beginning today at 11 a.m.
Eastern Standard Time to 9:00 p.m.
[ph] Eastern Standard Time on Thursday May 5 2011.
To access this replay you may dial 1(800)642-1687 domestically or area code (706)645-9291 internationally.
The replay passcode is 53819903.
Thank you.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Ashley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Prologis Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Tracy Ward.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you Ashley.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our second quarter 2011 conference call.
Our press release and supplemental are available on our website at prologis.com under Investor Relations.
This morning we'll hear from Hamid Moghadam Co-CEO and Chairman to comment on our company's strategy and the market environment then from Bill Sullivan CFO who will cover results and guidance.
Additionally we are joined today by Walt Rakowich Gary Anderson Mike Curless Guy Jaquier Gene Reilly and Tom Olinger.
Before we begin prepared remarks I'd like to quickly state that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements under federal securities laws.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates and projections about the market and the industry in which Prologis operates as well as management's belief and assumption.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and actual operating results may be affected by a variety of factors.
For a list of those factors please refer to the forward-looking statement notice in our 10-K or SEC filing.
I’d also like to state that our second quarter results press release and supplemental do contain financial measures such as FFO and EBITDA that are non-GAAP measures and in accordance with Reg G we have provided a reconciliation to those measures.
As we have done in the past to provide a broader range of investors and analysts with the opportunity to ask questions we will ask you to please limit your questions to one at a time.
Hamid will you please begin? Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
We are pleased to be hosting our first earnings call as a combined company.
Over the past few months Walt and I have spent a lot of time visiting our offices around the globe.
And I can tell you our team is very enthusiastic and energized about this merger.
It's great to see how well and how quickly the 2 organizations have come together.
As we plot our course for the future we've established a clear strategy for the new company.
Our priorities are: First to strengthen our financial position and to build 1 of the top 3 balance sheets in the industry; second to align our portfolio with our investment strategy while serving the needs of our customers; third to refine our private capital business and to position us for substantial growth; and fourth to build the most effective and efficient organization in the business and become the employer of choice among top professionals interested in real estate as a career.
I'd like to take a few minutes to expand on each of these things.
First by streamlining the company's overhead structure reducing our leverage and focusing our portfolio on our target markets we plan to achieve substantial savings in operational expenses as well as our overall cost of capital.
This added financial flexibility will position us to capitalize on market opportunities across the entire business cycle.
Also by adopting the best practices from both companies and by incorporating the lessons of the past few years we've created a sophisticated framework for evaluating and managing risk on an integrated basis across the different aspects of our business.
You will hear more from us on this in the coming months but as an example we've introduced a private capital model into our development activities in Brazil and China.
This strategy lowers our balance sheet exposure to land and development mitigates our net currency exposure and allows us to develop more of our financial resources to meeting the needs of our customers around the world while reducing the overall risks of our business.
Second in order to align our portfolio with our asset allocation strategy we performed a comprehensive review of our markets which we have now categorized into 2 main segments.
Global markets comprise roughly 30 of the largest most liquid markets tied to global trade and represent approximately 80% of our overall platform.
These markets are defined by large population centers with high per-capita consumption rates.
They typically feature major seaports airports and other transportation infrastructure.
While initial returns might be lower global markets tend to outperform in terms of growth and total return.
Examples of global markets would be Los Angeles Tokyo London and Sao Paolo.
Regional markets consist of about 50 regional logistic corridors and represent 13% of our platform.
These markets also benefits from large populations and strong local demand but they're not as directly tied to the global supply chain and are often less supply constrained than global markets.
We intend to hold only the highest quality Class A product in our regional markets examples of which include Orlando Prague and Nagoya.
Properties in regional markets typically trade at higher yields than equivalent quality assets in global markets.
Our global customers have substantial space needs in both of these market segments.
Each of which provides a unique investment opportunity for the company and our partners.
We also own a small number of assets in other markets such as New Orleans Turin and Seoul which we plan to exit in an orderly fashion in next few years.
These other markets account for only 7% of our platform.
By segmenting our markets in this manner we are able to construct a strategy that includes culling the portfolio for buildings and potentially submarkets that are no longer a strategic fit for the company.
Exiting these markets will also allow us to recycle capital into new developments to upgrade the age and quality of our portfolio over time to delever the balance sheet and to monetize our land bank.
Going forward we expect our assets outside the U.S.
will be held predominantly in funds.
New developments in these regions particularly in emerging markets will be in conjunction with our private capital partners.
Our long-term capital allocation decisions will be governed by opportunities as they evolve over time with a focus on overall risk management.
As always we'll employ our one portfolio policy in the way we operate all of our assets.
In other words our private capital partners will get the full benefit of our integrated operating model including our customer franchise our 600 million-square-foot global footprint as well as industry leading portfolio-wide programs such as our recently announced rooftop solar initiative.
We believe these investor benefits are unparalleled in the real estate business today.
Third let's talk through the near term priorities for our private capital business.
As a combined company we have about $26 billion of Assets Under Management in 22 funds and ventures around the world with over $3 billion of available investment capacity.
Over the next 18 months we plan to add to this capacity by forming a few new funds as well as raising incremental capital for existing open-end funds in the U.S.
and Europe.
Currently our top priority in fund formation is Japan where we have a sizable portfolio of the highest-quality logistic facilities in the market together with the best management team in the business.
We believe Japan will present significant development and investment opportunities over the next few years.
We plan to rationalize our private capital business in conjunction with our investors and this plan is well underway.
As we look at our product offerings across our funds not all of these funds are profitable for our new company.
Some provide fee structures that fall short of our cost of managing the fund assets.
Others include the unworkable operating requirements and oversight.
In some cases this means terminating or restructuring unprofitable relationships.
In other cases it means combining some funds to gain operational efficiencies that will benefit all investors.
In yet a number of other cases this means defining a differentiated and compelling growth strategy for the venture.
In every case however we'll work very closely with our partners and fund investors to make sure that they're active participants in these decisions.
As always our actions will be guided by our strong commitment to transparency leading governance policies and a high level of financial alignment with our investors.
In the short run you may see the number of funds and our Assets Under Management decrease while we build the foundation for future growth.
Finally Walt and I believe that we have a unique opportunity to capitalize on the best attributes of our former companies and to build a strong culture of empowerment speed and accountability that will attract and retain the best talent in the industry.
Risk management and world-class operational efficiency will continue to be important areas of emphasis for us as we build a new Prologis.
As I mentioned earlier I'm incredibly impressed with how well our teams have come together which has been evident in how they've been collaborating.
I've watched team members work seamlessly over the past few months as we successfully accomplished our objectives with PEPR closed the merger completed the bond exchange and the follow-on equity offering revamped our investment committee process even prepared for this earnings call and just yesterday secured a $500 million capital commitment from one of the most respected pension funds in the country.
Now I'd like to shift gears and offer some comments on the key demand drivers for our business.
First global GDP continues to signal demands for industrial real estate.
Our business is very strong in Asia and Latin America.
The U.S.
is improving and Europe is mixed but steady overall.
While global GDP growth in the first half of the year came in below consensus we have not seen it slow demand for industrial real estate.
We looked hard to find evidence of a slowing market but if anything we appear to be a little ahead of our expectations and you can see this in our leasing results for the quarter.
We believe this has more to do with the rapid pace of inventory rebuilding which has more than made up for the lower economic growth rate in the first 6 months.
U.S.
inventories have now been increasing for 6 consecutive quarters and are more than halfway back to their pre-crisis level.
Based on the most recent data we expect further rebuilding of inventories for the balance of the year with an expectation that will surpass the previous peak in early 2012.
As the global recovery broadens across the major economies and as inventory restocking continues we expect to see increased demand for industrial real estate that should translate to approximately 150 million square feet of net absorption in the U.S.
in 2011.
As you know absorption in the second quarter was also ahead of expectations.
This should come as no surprise as we have about 10 million more people living in this country than we did before the crisis.
This outlook is further supported by positive signs from our customers which have requirements for major distribution centers all over the world.
Space utilization continues to increase and we're also seeing a meaningful uptick in build-to-suit activity with potential multi-market opportunities in some significant cases.
These opportunities are led by our larger better capitalized customers who want to achieve operational efficiencies by consolidating smaller facilities or to expand globally into underserved market -- markets in preparation for growth.
The momentum with smaller and medium-sized customers is lagging somewhat but still positive.
Given our global platform and long-term relationships with customers we have the unique ability to serve as their strategic partner for real estate across the globe and across the business cycle.
As you can tell Walt and I are very pleased with the progress we've made in the first few months of the new company.
We're excited about the opportunities we see ahead.
We believe that the new Prologis has come at the right time and has positioned in all the right places to make the most of these opportunities.
Let me turn the call over to Bill so he can walk you through our results and update you on our guidance.
Thanks Hamid.
This morning I have plan to cover 3 aspects of the company's reporting structure and financial performance: First our new supplemental; second our results for the quarter; and third guidance for the back half of the year as well as how to think about the company going forward.
By now you have seen our new supplemental reporting package.
Our goal in creating this package was to align how we report externally with how we manage the business internally.
We have taken what we believe is the best of both worlds from each company.
For example we adopted legacy AMB's holistic view of the owned and managed portfolio.
This means our operating metrics are presented without regard to ownership.
From legacy Prologis we adopted the NAV disclosure format as we believe it gives the financial community comprehensive data to value the company.
As you think about a go-forward view of the combined company we believe the current supplemental provides the right level of detail to help model expectations.
Now let me turn to the second quarter financials.
We realize there's a lot of noise in the numbers and it is difficult to compare our reported results of either of legacy Prologis or AMB.
With Prologis as the accounting acquirer second quarter combines 2 months of standalone legacy Prologis and 1 month of combined company results.
Also during the quarter we consolidated SGP PEPR and completed an equity offering.
Before I get into detail on the quarter's Core FFO let me remind everyone that Core FFO as we define it: excludes merger and integration expenses impairment charges as well as disposition or acquisition-related gains or losses.
In the second quarter we had significant adjustments in each category.
First we recorded $103 million or $0.33 per share of integration and transaction costs associated with the acquisition of the PEPR interest and the merger.
We expect to continue to incur severance and transition costs associated with the merger between now and year end 2012 and will report these expenses on a separate line item.
Second we recorded $104 million or $0.34 per share of impairment charges the vast majority of which related to our NA3 Fund where our partner is Lehman.
In conjunction with our evaluation fund rationalization process we deemed the valuation trajectory of this venture to be insufficient to ultimately recover our entire investment despite widespread recoveries in values over the last 6 to 9 months.
Finally our impairment adjustment was essentially offset by approximately $107 million or $0.34 per share of net gains on acquisitions and dispositions of investments in real estate mainly related to the consolidation of PEPR onto our balance sheet.
As a reminder the impact of the purchase accounting adjustments from the merger while non-cash are included in our definition of Core FFO.
We continue to expect these to negatively impact FFO through 2014 with an estimated annual drag of between $0.02 and $0.03 per share.
This is principally due to increased stock-compensation expense associated with the mark-to-market of legacy AMB stock at optional levels reduced NOI from the mark-to-market of leases and amortization of the fair market value of the investment management contracts.
All of which is partially offset by the favorable effect of the mark-to-market of legacy AMB debt.
Let me now give you insight as to how we view the quarter and what things would have looked like had we been able to report a full quarter's worth of operations in our current merged and consolidated status.
For the quarter Core FFO was $0.35 per share modestly ahead of our internal expectations.
The results were higher than forecasted primarily due to higher occupancy lower-than-expected rent change at rollover and modestly lower interest expense.
To put things in perspective we have analyzed the quarter's operating results from a variety of viewpoints.
In doing so we estimate that taking into account a full quarter of legacy AMB a full quarter of consolidated PEPR and adjusting for the change in share counts associated with both the merger and the equity offering our Core FFO on a pro forma basis for the quarter would have been approximately $0.38 per fully diluted share.
Turning now to capital markets initiatives.
We are highly focused on our delevering objectives and have already taken significant steps towards our stated goals.
During the quarter we amended and recast our global lines of credit as well as completed an equity offering.
As we have mentioned previously our use of proceeds from the offering was to reduce leverage in light of our acquisition of PEPR.
At the end of the quarter our share of total enterprise debt was $14 billion.
We expect this number to decrease substantially throughout 2012 as we implement on our fund rationalization strategy and create new funds with a particular focus on our second Japan fund.
Additionally we will continue to implement on other asset dispositions and contributions which we have communicated in numerous investor presentations over the past 2 months.
Let me turn now to our guidance for the rest of 2011.
Based on our performance in Q2 and our expectations for continued recovery in the overall macro economy and operating environment we are reiterating our second half Core FFO guidance of $0.78 to $0.82 per share and expect to end the year near the top end of our range.
Our shares in units outstanding on a fully diluted basis are expected to total approximately 463 million reflecting the merger and the equity offering.
As we move through 2011 we expect to see an increase in FFO relative to Q2 principally as a result of increased occupancy in the operating portfolio and the completion and lease up of a number of properties currently under development.
We expect our operating portfolio occupancy to increase between 100 and 150 basis points by year end.
This NOI pick up from the occupancy gains will be tempered to an extent by the loss of NOI from asset sales and fund contributions that are targeted for Q3 and Q4 of this year.
For the second half we're maintaining our development start and acquisition guidance of $900 million to $1.35 billion that we've provided in connection with our equity offering.
This includes $600 million to $800 million in development starts and $300 million to $550 million of acquisitions principally in the funds.
We now expect dispositions and contributions to be $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion with roughly 75% coming off the balance sheet and 25% inside the funds.
We're feeling good about this volume as we currently have north of $950 million of these dispositions closed under LOI or PSA or committed to by a fund.
This is a $300 million increase from previous guidance driven largely by the U.S.
Logistics Fund's intention and desire to acquire a substantial portion of the former SGP assets in the fourth quarter.
To wrap up we feel really good about how things have come together in the merger process.
We're highly focused on implementing the deleveraging strategy and I cannot be prouder of the efforts put forth by the combined teams to bring all of this to fruition.
With that let me turn it back to the operator to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
Going back to your comments on being more positive of hitting your higher end of the guidance for 2011.
What gives you confidence that you'll hit that? Is it more on the operations side? Or is it cost of capital? Or can you give some more details kind of...
Ki this is Bill Sullivan.
I think it's more operational.
I really think it's focused on the fact that we're slightly ahead of our occupancy expectations at the end of the quarter and we feel good absent some nasty macro factor but we feel pretty good about what's happening in the overall operations and so we're really looking at that occupancy gain.
The NOI that we'll lose from some of the disposition activity is really later of the year it's more fourth quarter focused but we feel good about hitting the top end of the guidance.
Your next question comes from Steven Frankel with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.</strong> Just a question on development particularly with Japan you guys continue to ramp up activity there.
What do you think the ultimate pace could be in Japan? Is the future fund also going to include development opportunities within the fund itself? Let me start and I'm sure Gary will have some comments on this.
I think the opportunities we're seeing in Japan simply stated are today in excess of our capital-allocation abilities.
In other words there is more profitable development opportunity in Japan than we feel comfortable allocating capital to off the balance sheet.
That's why the priority is on forming the Japan fund because really it's a tremendous market particularly for post-earthquake where the benefits of modern facilities has become very evident to customers there.
Gary? 100% right.
There's a huge amount of functioning absolute space in Japan right now and that trend that's been going on for last decade is continuing.
The tragedy has actually accelerated the pace.
You've got companies who are actually flying to quality facilities because there's a tremendous flight to quantity and we're going to benefit from that.
At the same time what's happening is you're getting redundancy built into the supply chain.
Companies instead of having facilities just in Sendai are also putting them in Sendai and Tokyo.
The fact of the matter is that we got a fantastic development team in Japan.
They've developed a huge chunk of the Class A space and a lot of this new development is going to nurture Prologis going forward.
Your next question comes from Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
Can you just talk a little bit about the -- your momentum in terms of discussions on build-to-suit as you kind of gradually ramp for this develop pipeline.
You mentioned a little bit about sort of where you're seeing activity but a little more color there as well as the kind of space needs and the industries involved there? This is Mike Curless.
We're seeing quite an uptick in build-to-suit activity particularly in North America and Europe.
In terms of North America we have some $300 million in proposals out spanning over 10 proposals right now or a magnitude $400 million in Europe on a call it 50 proposals and particularly North America this is a significant uptick compared to what we've seen in the last couple of years.
I think it's largely driven by a few things a lot more activity from our customers coming from the 3PL world food business e-commerce retailers we're seeing a lot of multi-market activity which is -- we think bodes well for us given our global footprint and our big development that's across the country.
And there's a real dirt of large product available right now that would otherwise have accommodated some of those large requirements in the past.
So anyway we'll continuing to see good activity in North America and Europe has been very active in terms of build-to-suits.
Your next question comes from Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
I'm trying to reconcile some of the disclosure on Page 12 of your supplemental and in particular the overall leasing activity for the combined company from Q1 to Q2 looks like it was up 6% nearly 35 million feet but the same-store leasing looks like it was sequentially down by 1.8% and I'm trying to reconcile sort of those numbers against the commentary on sort of where fundamentals are in 2Q.
I mean Ross in combining the former completed and development portfolio for AMB were leasing up in that development portfolio.
You saw some of them strong leasing activity in Europe et cetera and so the overall numbers don't surprise when we had good lease up in our development portfolio nearly 1 400 000 square feet in the second quarter.
And so I'm not sure there's much of a disconnect there.
Your next question comes from Sloan Bohlen with Goldman Sachs.
Hamid maybe a question for you just on the pace with regard to dispositions and how that seems to have picked up a little bit.
Is that a function of the depth of the buyer market and I guess to that point are more comfortable on the price or are the funding capabilities for those potential buyers have they improved? Maybe just add a little detail there.
I got to tell you people continue to be very underallocated to industrial and there is been a short -- and there's a lot of pent-up demand because people haven't really filled those allocation in the last couple of years.
Institutions because really nobody unless they had to sell has been selling any properties.
So there's a lot of capital that is out there for industrial deals and we have some very good quality properties.
So they're just -- we have a lot of confidence that we can execute our plan both in terms of pace and in terms of pricing.
Your next question comes from Michael Bilerman.
I have a request and a question.
The request is Bill you talked about the $0.38 of FFO Core basis for the quarter.
It would be great if you can just provide a worksheet for the 2Q income statement that puts that together so that the Street and investors can model forward based on that income statement for the third and fourth quarters.
In terms of the question Hamid I just wanted to come back to the equity raise that you completed and this is more of a question of timing.
And I think that when you were doing the merger and you and Walt both said look there's no noose around our neck there's no need desperate need for capital.
We want to move to a top 3 balance sheet we want to be there but there's immediate need to raise equity at what would be a bad price and then a lot of the things that you had in progress the fund formation selling assets would be value enhancing and clearly from the results perspective you sort of had an inclination that you yourselves would be coming in ahead of plan.
And so I guess why take why do the step of raising a substantial net equity that you did at a price that probably you would probably want to it higher at a later point if there was no immediate need no debt covenant issues nothing that would have caused it and just wait? Okay.
I'll let Bill answer your first question and Walt and I will take a stab at the second question.
Yes hey Michael putting out the pro forma's a complicated little exercise but let me just give you some food for thought on that.
First of all in -- and when we file the 10-Q we're going to have some condensed pro forma information so I'd think you can get a little insight in that.
It will not be as broad as anyone on this call would like.
We'll also be filing a new prospectus to bring that up to speed in September.
That will have a more detailed set of pro forma financials.
But if you wanted to do sort of the back of the envelope you could sort of take our numbers and account for the new share count and what you'll get is increased FFO representative of 463 million shares.
You can go through the math take AMB's first quarter look at 2 month's worth of net data and add it to what you see in these reported results.
PEPR just recorded -- reported their results today take 2/3 of that add it to these results and you get a pretty good run rate on a line item basis.
And the only thing you'd have to factor into that really just to get a big picture is that we have G&amp;A savings that are inert to the future.
And so you'd reduce some of the G&amp;A associated with that but I think if you went and did the back to the envelope on that you'd come to a pretty good run rate that gets you to $0.38 per share.
And then take a look at that for future expectations.
Michael on the equity question what we talked about before is what we've talked about consistently.
The company did not have a need to raise equity.
We have  a couple of different dials available to us to delever dispositions would be one fund formations would be the other and equity would be the third.
So there was no desperate need.
That wasn't like the market was deteriorating and were running out to raise equity.
There was no secret -- double secret plan to say one thing and do another thing.
It was -- really the decision to do equity was that every conversation that we were having all it focused on was on equity.
As opposed to all the other aspects of our business plan which as you can see now and now that we've reported to have been going really well both in terms of operations private capital all the other aspects of the business.
So we have a pretty ambitious deleveraging plan ahead of us that requires a lot of fund formation and dispositions.
If we are off on our timing if we are off on our execution I figure whatever we gave up on the equity raise will more than make up on the terms that we'll get on the other activities.
And we can be very patient -- and patient and execute really well.
Bill did you want to...
I'd just add to that Michael from a risk management standpoint again we levered up to buy PEPR in an environment where all of a sudden there was a lot of noise around the European debt crisis the U.S.
Government and extending the debt ceiling et cetera et cetera.
I believe it was incredibly prudent to raise the equity that we did in light of sort of the overall macro factors.
And to me it's -- relative to the overall size of the company it was sort of a non-event.
And I think it's just risk management and prudence in that regard and I'm very excited that we did it.
Walt did you want to add anything there? No well I'll just also say Michael keep in mind that as Hamid said there were so many discussions about equity that in fact over the 2 or 3-day period of time during they read our stock and following it quite substantially and I think what we also said was not at this price it didn't make any sense.
And it did rebound over the course of the next couple of weeks as well.
So put all of that into context and I think we felt good about the decision we made.
Your next question from Suzanne Kim with Credit Suisse.
Just a little more color on the dispositions you increased your guidance I'm just trying to figure out a geographic breakdown of your disposition target.
And also timing wise I mean are they weighted towards third or fourth quarter? This is Mike Curless.
Typically our dispositions would have always been weighted towards the fourth quarter and as Sully mentioned we have right at $1 billion we're in very good shape we're either closed under contract or committed.
And I'd say in terms of geographical diversification it's primarily in North America and Europe and we feel comfortable that these numbers are going to come in well within guidance.
Your next question from John Guinee.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Can you repeat the information on the impairment charge again? Well the overall impairment charge was about $104 million.
And the vast majority -- it really related to really 2 things John one of which was NA3 where we took a sizable write-down relative to what we think the recovery value is on the NA3 Fund.
And again I said that was the vast majority of that charge.
And the other was really related to a small incremental impairment relative to our Korea operations which we've communicated the last 6 or so months we were going to exit.
We hope to be exiting those activities in Q3.
Your next question from Steven Benyik with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> I guess I was hoping you guys could provide some further breakdown on the $10 million in incremental mergers synergy in terms of how much is actually coming from G&amp;A versus the lower line of credit costs or lower amortization and how much would ultimately flow through to cash flow? Steve this is Tom virtually all of the synergies will result in real cash savings.
The incremental increase is really spread across all 3 of those items between G&amp;A related to personnel non-personnel related as well as the amortization of intangible -- or tangible assets mostly fixed assets and IT assets corporate infrastructure lower amortization and some additional savings from fees associated with the lines.
Not the interest savings but just the fees facility fees et cetera on the lines.
So It's pretty well split between those all 3.
Your next question from Sri Nagarajan.
Sri Nagarajan of FBR.
Just all eyes on Europe these days perhaps you could quantify the impact of FFO on a full quarter run rate of PEPR there? As well as any impact on say 1% in occupancy if you can.
Well on PEPR -- PEPR just released its second quarter earnings and so you can go on that website and take a look at PEPR's results.
And again we've consolidated it for one month -- during this quarter approximately one month.
And so I think you could just take sort of 2/3 of the PEPR results and add it to this component you'll see the full quarter effect.
Those are publicly disclosed numbers I'm sorry you can get from that aspect.
Gary? Yes why don't I just give you a little bit of color on sort of what's happening in Europe in general to give you some tone.
There's obviously been a lot of noise around the sovereign debt crisis and that may have led to some slower decision making but the reality is if you step back and think about what's happening in Europe generally the positive trends I think is sort of undeniable values are stable to up rents are stable to up really almost across-the-board.
Occupancies were up a 100 basis points last quarter 230 basis points over the last 3 quarters.
There's still limited supply and strong build in demand that we're taking advantage of.
So  all in all aside from sort of the macro noise that you're hearing we're feeling pretty good about the European marketplace.
Your next question from George Auerbach with ISI Group.
Just a follow up on Michael's question Bill can you just provide us with a run rate cash NOI figure for the portfolio today at 90.7% occupancy given the moving pieces of PEPR plus AMB plus SGP less the dispositions? Not off the top of my head.
A lot of these pro forma questions et cetera let us sort of regroup.
We'll give our best shot guys.
I mean I guess it's probably too late for your desires but I mean by Q3 this is going to be really clear.
We'll put something together.
Your next question comes from Michael Mueller with JP Morgan.
Bill just a question about guidance in terms of clarifying it.
I was under the impression that guidance had a full run rate of all the expected synergies in there is that the case or is it just the synergies that are in place now? Well the guidance has -- how do I say this? The guidance has the synergies as we expect them to come through and so we are -- we still have some duplicative costs in 2011 that go away in 2012.
Those are in our G&amp;A numbers as we incur them so the vast majority of the transition costs are out but we'll incur a modest amount of cost in 2011 that are in the G&amp;A.
So that G&amp;A number will improve modestly overtime but we're going to identify in a separate line item which we'll add back to get to Core FFO.
The transition and synergy costs associated with the people that are continuing to provide services that will ultimately go away and hopefully then clears it up.
.
Your next question from Jeff Spector with Bank of America.
This is Jamie Feldman I'm here with Jeff.
Hamid can you give us a little bit more color on your commentary about restructuring some of the funds that you made in your prepared remarks? I just want to make sure I heard that correct.
And also if I did can you talk about maybe any impact it may have on future earnings and kind of what funds you're talking about and the magnitude? I'll start then maybe Guy can fill in some of the details.
So as we look at the combined Fund Management platform I think the important message is that I think it's unparalleled certainly in the Investor Real Estate business.
I would go further and say it's on unparalleled and for any operating company and certainly in the top 3 or 4 Global Fund Management platforms around.
So it's really a good business and we think it's going to be powerful growth engine for the company and you saw evidence of that yesterday in terms of what happened over in Oregon and I think we're just getting warmed up.
So that's the big comment.
In order to get there these companies started in the Fund Management business in different ways from different directions with different needs.
And it's really really important when you're in this business that you treat all your investors consistently and you operate your portfolio with no bias towards one fund versus another or your balance sheet assets.
So really the first thing you heard from me is that we're going to run everything we don't have favored children all our children we love equally and all our funds are going to be run as one portfolio because the power is in the platform and the scale of the platform.
Secondly we are not in the business of providing Fund Management services for free or at a loss so to the extent that the proper cost -- we don't expect to make a lot of money by the way in our ongoing asset management business we expect to cover our costs but not make a lot of money.
Our real money is made in our per months and our incentive fees.
But to the extent that there are relationships in place that either don't pay sufficient funds or have owner risks oversight and guidance they want to micromanage an operating company for example we will modify these arrangements or move on in a very thoughtful and respectable manner to investors so that everybody's interests are protected.
And we are in the midst of a lot of that dialogue.
We also have certain platforms around the world where we have multiple funds that before we're competing with one another.
There will be some level of overlap between some of the funds although our strategies can be somewhat differentiated between these funds.
But as differentiated as they may be there could be smaller areas of overlap and we have put in place an allocation process that has been good -- well articulated and communicated in terms of how assets are allocated between these funds.
So basically that's where it all falls together.
In terms of what it all means for the business it means that we could shrink by a few billion dollars and I mean a few like $1 billion or $2 billion before we start growing by a lot more than that going forward in the management business.
Guy please? Yes just a couple other comments.
One is that there's certain funds where we don't have the discretion we want to run the assets the way we want to do it.
So if you think about it where we have a number of different assets we're trying to lease them and one building we have to go to a partner and get approval to sign a lease.
That just creates problems for us.
Similarly if you want to go build out PIs and with one partner we have to get a special type of contractor to build out PIs it just becomes very inefficient for us.
There are also some funds that are -- over the next couple years going to be close end funds that are nearing the end of their life.
And we're in discussions to either liquidate those funds or potentially roll those funds into other funds.
So I think it's a little early to speculate on which ones how many and all that.
But suffice to say in our guidance we're really not projecting any future efficiencies or synergies from some fund consolidations.
Your next question comes from Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
It's Chris Canton on with Paul.
Just a follow-up question on expected fund contributions over the course of next 18 months.
I mean you mentioned your payment is your highest priority I'm wondering what else is high on the list.
And also how will the assets be valued in Japan contribution and with respect to PEPR will you have an opportunity for a new appraisal on those assets? Okay the priorities are -- the biggest priorities are Japan.
At some point we need to do something with our platform in Canada.
Brazil we have one fund in place and we're being very successful in almost going through that.
I think we have maybe another couple of quarters of traversing [ph] that fund the business is going very well there.
So we'll be thinking about Brazil too at some point.
Obviously PEPR is premature to talk about because PEPR is still a public company and has other shareholders in it but at some point that could become a priority.
And remember we have these evergreen vehicles in terms of the open-end funds that are going to be raising capital and growing and they're going to have a dynamic business plan.
So all of those are priorities.
The other platform and this goes back some time but you remember that we did the [indiscernible] fund in Mexico.
Our business in Mexico is going quite well.
It's at the higher scale now and at some point we need to start thinking about the next vehicle for Mexico or an expansion of the existing vehicle.
So -- but I would say Mexico and Canada are probably 2012 priorities end of 2012 priorities.
The real emphasis is Japan now for the next 12 months and the open-end funds.
Guy do you want to add to that? Yes.
And then the second part of your question is any fund contributions will be done at fair market value.
I mean any time we're transferring asset off our balance sheet into a fund we do have to get third party appraisals and there's a review process but it's basically a fair market value.
And there is independent oversight on that.
Correct.
Your next question from Michael Bilerman.
In terms of the split of the portfolio that you provide on Page 22 this was the old Prologis summary where you break it out between greater than 75% leased and under 75% leased and clearly those above 75% are basically almost full it's really that the stuff that was developed and came into the core portfolio not fully leased.
And so I'm just curious when you look at that 45 million square feet it's almost $3 billion of value.
There's obviously a lot less to lease in that portfolio.
And so I mean could you talk a little bit about the developments coming in line in the back half of the year but how should we think about this $3 billion of real estate? Does this represent a lot of those non-core markets that you want to get out of? How much of it's really core assets that you really want to see the leasing get up and in terms of then the  timing of that happening.
Michael let me try to take that.
I think it's pretty well spread in terms of what the 45 million square feet represents.
But in my guidance it's -- I can get back to you guys on what the spread is.
But when I look at it -- and the reason we didn't put the NOI in there effectively was because with that portfolio or that set of assets in its current leasing status it's really eating operating costs today and so it's really tough to get to the pro forma.
And to put things in perspective there's about 32 million of the 45 million square feet that are in the Americas about 12 million in Europe and about 1 million in Asia.
And if you -- when we looked at it in terms of -- and we put out here average investment balance per square foot of $62 that's about $55 a foot in the Americas about $73 a foot in Europe and $140 a foot in Asia which obviously is Japan-focused.
And then in that some of the major -- some of these assets are in the major markets.
It's heavily weighted towards northern New Jersey and New York and Dallas Southern California Chicago et cetera.
And so from a per square foot basis we're pretty comfortable that there's value there.
Your next question from Dave Rodgers with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> In the context of selling stabilized assets redeploying some or most of that capital maybe through development in the coming years and taking into consideration your comments about lower fund capital maybe for just a year or 2 where's your fixed charge coverage today and I guess where would you like to keep that on a combined basis? If it was in the packet I didn't see it and so I apologize.
Yes I think -- again when you look at those numbers we have here because we all have the debt at the end but we don't have the full quarter of operations we want the fixed charge coverage -- count it's just one more detail count you guys would go through with me and ask me on a fixed life.
Today it's slightly north of 2x in the grand scheme of things.
We've clearly indicated we want that fixed charge coverage count to be in the 2.5x to 3x.
When you look at the debt reduction expectations we have throughout 2012 we will be there and we feel real good about that.
Your next question from John Guinee.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Quick question [indiscernible] operating numbers it looks to me like going forward including some lease up you ought to expect about 17% of the portfolio coming up for re-lease every year.
And maybe TI leasing commission and base building CapEx coming in at about 12% of cash NOI are those good numbers going forward? We think so.
They've been pretty steady if you look at these companies.
The reason we provided it it was a new disclosure is because when you get to 600 million feet those numbers are remarkably stable.
So that's the way we should really look at this company as top down.
Thank God we don't have to get into what's going on in San Francisco on the third quarter on a 400 square-foot lease.
So this is really good to look at it top down.
And I had -- the 2 metrics I would look at is on releasing cost looking at per square foot numbers those are reliable and then the percentage of NOI that's going to CapEx which includes building improvements.
Those are the 2 metrics I'd look at.
Again if you look at the CapEx number it's over the [indiscernible] basically you're looking at 15% to 16% again reflecting CapEx.
And John the 12% maybe a sort of at the high-end of the -- I'd think about a 10% to 12% of NOI.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay and Bill one other question just -- how on earth did the Lehman Fund impairment charge get kicked down the block for 2 or 3 years then come up post-merger? Well candidly if you went back John and looked at a disclosure we had back in January of 2010 over -- where we talked about -- now this was public information we put a Slide in one of the investor presentations that we put out on our website that identified our over-levered funds okay? And at that point we talked about the Eaton Vance funds NA2 and NA3.
And at that point in time we said look we think --  and you can go through the math on that slide and you'll see the magnitude of what our carrying value was below fair market value.
And our point in discussion at that time was we think values are going to recover these are long-term holds relative to NA2 and NA3.
We took the impairment of that time relative to Eaton Vance because we highly focused on exiting those funds and did not believe values would come back in an appropriate timeframe.
As we now fast forward to mid 2011 and we look at NA2 as an example that value has come back strongly.
And in fact it's at or above carrying value.
And so we feel really good about that.
When you look at NA3 it's much more heavily focused and [indiscernible] in Las Vegas and Reno than value trajectory just hasn't come back at the same fashion.
And candidly we talked about some of these funds we're not getting the appropriate management fees or there's issues and complications of what to do with the fund NA3 is certainly a poster child for that.
And it's time to deal with the issue.
Your next question comes from Jeff Spector with Bank of America.
Hamid I appreciate your comments earlier talking about the rapid pace of inventory rebuilding we've seen.
And I just wanted to see if you could talk a little bit more about that going forward and how investors can get comfortable that that will continue? It's probably that you guys are tired of hearing me talk about this because I've been talking about it for over a year going back to our Analyst Meeting in September in New York.
But inventories were down from the peak about 8% at the trough.
And through the first quarter we were more than 4% recovered from that so more than halfway back.
The preliminary numbers and as you know those numbers are lagging.
But that's sort of the first quarter's latest numbers we have.
But based on some of the monthly numbers that are highly correlated with the inventory number we think we've gained another point or 2 and therefore we're going to -- if we add the data today we'd say that we're back about 6 of those 8 points.
And so we think we are 75% back and it's not a big prediction to know that we're going to get back to normal because the retailers were just running too lean and it was not sustainable.
Also as you heard me say population is almost 10 million people more and while employment is a real issue and has a dampening effect on consumption the fact is a lot of the things that go through our warehouses are highly non-discretionary and correlated with population growth.
So I don't think it's a big stretch or a leap to call a full recovery of the inventory number.
Also we're seeing the air freight numbers normalize and airfreight as you've heard me say before is a very good early indicator of people running very lean on inventories because they miss sales and they got it airfreighted in.
So airfreight is normalizing which means it's growing but growing at a more normal pace as oppose to a crazy pace like a year ago.
So all those and different things point to inventories getting somewhat more normalized and that sort of 8% rebound in restocking really overwhelms the difference between a 3% GDP growth and a 2% GDP growth which is what everybody wants to talk about.
So in terms of the driver of our business it's really inventory levels.
And ultimately once we get to a normalized level we're right along with GDP but we got a ways to go before we get on that track.
Your next question from George Auerbach with ISI Group.
Bill the spreads in the quarter were down 6% on renewal leasing what are your expectations for the rest of the year and 2012 for renewal spreads? I think it's better -- I mean I can go through them but I think it's better for Hamid have the operating growth along through the renewal spreads.
Yes sure.
George as Ed mentioned at the beginning it's really difficult to reconcile these numbers with the Legacy Prologis or AMB so there's some noise in there.
But first of all I'd suffice it to say that our same-store numbers and the rent spreads are -- came in better than expected.
And the out performances is probably impacted somewhat on definitional changes but it's better than expected and we think it's going to continue.
Now you've heard us talk in the past on the AMB side when we see that turning positive and how many years are we out there.
I'm not going to give you an estimate to what's going to happen this year because frankly we have a lot of work to do on the numbers.
But I think those spreads are going to turn positive my guess would be sort of towards to the end of the next year which is a different outlook than you'd hear me say at a quarter ago or so.
And just to be clear that outlook is not only different it's better than our previous outlook because of this.
And we think that the definitional changes maybe account for about half of the improvements but half the improvements are real.
So -- and you just kind of have to bear with us for about a quarter before we scrub all those numbers and can present them in a totally comparable...
And they're directly comparable of course to Legacy Prologis.
Your last question is from Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
Just 2 quick questions.
One about going back to your fund free structures.
Could you talk a little bit more about what the fee structures looked like in the past and what it looks like today in terms of manual fees and also promote feelings? And last quick one any change your mark-to-market on land inventory after the merger? Well Bill why don't you talk about the land? And Guy you can talk about the funds.
Let me -- Ki just touch on the land.
We had a little bit of a decrease in the carrying value of historic [indiscernible] the land and that really relates to -- when you look at an impairment analysis that you would go through is different than a fair market value analysis on the overall portfolio of land because if you're going to hold land for future development it's incredibly tough to in essence compare it okay? Because you'd go through this kind of cash flow and this land worth it's valued at a 0% return et cetera.
And in fair market value analysis clearly you and put in the development profit and whatnot.
But I would say this it's too -- we have to scrub the whole purchase accounting analysis in detail in the upcoming weeks.
And certainly we intend to scrub it thoroughly by the end of August.
And so the valuations are going to move around a little bit undoubtedly as we scrub through that detail.
I think it's a better question to address when we get to the end of Q3 because by that time I expect we would have very little future movement in that valuation analysis.
And relative to your question on where market fees are in gross asset value they're somewhere between 60 and 75 basis points with some quantity discounts for larger investors.
Commenting on promotes it's really -- it really depends on the fund and objectives of the fund depends on what level of leverage you have whether it's a core fund or it's a development fund.
But round numbers it's somewhere 15% and 20% profits over the appropriate benchmark.
I'd like to thank all of you for participating in this Conf Call.
And to summarize Walt and I are pleased with the results for the quarter which are modestly ahead of our expectations.
We're very proud of the fact that our teams were able to accomplish all this despite of all the pressures and distractions of the merger which are thankfully behind us.
We're very appreciative of the efforts of our talented teams around the globe and are excited about what the rest of the year holds for the company.
I also want to emphasize the 3 key takeaways from today's call.
First while we still have a lot of work cut out for us our overall progress on integration is on target and actually ahead of plan in most cases.
Second from what we can see the recovery in our business is also on track.
We continue to lookout for signs of a slowdown but frankly we don't see it.
And third we're just beginning to unlock the full potential of the new Prologis and are excited about our prospects.
That you again for joining us for our inaugurary [ph] call and we look forward to reporting back to you next quarter.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Matthew and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Prologis Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Tracy Ward you may begin your conference.
Thank you Matthew.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you to our third quarter 2011 conference call.
The supplemental document is available on our website at Prologis.com under Investor Relations.
This morning we'll hear from Hamid Moghadam Co-CEO and Chairman to comment on the company's strategy and market environment.
Then from Bill Sullivan CFO who will cover results and guidance.
Walt Rakowich Co-CEO is joining us today from Europe.
Additionally we are joined by Gary Anderson Mike Curless Guy Jaquier Tom Olinger and Gene Reilly.
Before we begin the prepared remarks I'd like to quickly state that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements under federal securities Laws.
These statements are based upon current expectations estimates and projections about the market and the industry in which Prologis operates as well as management's beliefs and assumptions.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and actual operating results may be affected by a variety of factors.
For a list of those factors please refer to the forward-looking statement notice in our 10-K or SEC filings.
I'd also like to state that our third quarter results press release and supplemental package do contain financial measures such as FFO and EBITDA that are non-GAAP measures.
And in accordance with Reg G we have provided reconciliation to those measures.
[Operator Instructions] Hamid will you please begin? Thanks Tracy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Let me start by saying that I'm very pleased with our third quarter results our first full quarter of reporting as a combined company.
The integration has come together better than expected and we're already realizing important synergies that will provide long-term benefits to our organization and our shareholders.
Execution is solid across all of our business lines and the implementation of our strategic plan is ahead of schedule.
You may recall from our second quarter conference call that we outlined the 4 priorities that will serve as our roadmap for the next 2 years.
As a reminder these priorities are: first to further strengthen our financial position; second to better align our portfolio with our investment strategy; third to streamline our private capital business; and fourth to build the most effective and efficient global organization in the industry.
Our first priority of balance sheet management revolves around dispositions and contributions.
We've made great progress and completed $844 million in dispositions and contributions since the beginning of the second quarter.
Given the number of transactions in the most recent quarter the market has clearly spoken that there is no shortage of demand and that capital is available for quality industrial real estate.
As a result we have significantly increased our guidance for disposition and contribution activity for the second half of 2011.
Bill will go -- take you through the specifics of that a little later.
Our second strategic priority is to align our portfolio with our investment strategy.
Last quarter we completed the compressive review of our entire holdings to identify assets and markets that had a lower level strategic fit with the rest of our ownership.
As part of this plan we exited New Orleans and are well on our way to exiting Korea.
On the deployment front we invested $286 million into new acquisitions and development starts specifically breaking ground on developments in Japan Germany and Southern California where customer demand exceeds existing supply and we monetized over $20 million of our land bank in the process.
In the current economic environment we're being very selective with our capital deployment decisions acquiring properties and commencing development only where demand is sound and where underwriting economics justify the risks.
I'd now like to turn to our third priority which is to streamline our private capital business.
We've begun implementing a plan to rationalize our funds into a smaller number of differentiated investment vehicles with appropriate fee structures reflective of the quality of the Prologis brand and the services we provide.
In the third quarter and continuing into the fourth quarter we sold our 20% interest in the ProLogis Korea Fund liquidated the first phase of the Prologis North American Properties Fund I with the sale of $120 million of assets and completed the sale of the SGP portfolio into our U.S.
Targeted Logistics Fund.
Looking into the near future we're in the various stages of discussions with partners in 4 U.S.
funds relating to liquidation wind down or other restructurings totaling about $3 billion in private capital assets.
At the end of this process we expect to have a fewer number of differentiated funds covering the full array of our activities around the globe.
These funds will have profitable fee structures and will provide our institutional partners with the best ways of investing in industrial real estate.
Evidence of the acceptance of this plan is that we've already achieved the record year of capital raising and expect to see continued interest from our investing partners.
Our top priority remains the recapitalization of our Japan assets and we've commenced the marketing of 2 new funds in that region.
In short we feel great about the prospects for our private capital business.
Our fourth priority building the most effective and efficient organization in the business relates to our people processes and systems.
In August we brought together the company's top 100 leaders for a 2.5-day off-site working session.
The level of engagement was very high and I left the session with a confidence that we're working as one team with one set of goals and a clear roadmap for going forward.
We've equipped all leaders with enhanced tools that will further enable realtime monitoring of key performance indicators across the different aspects of our business including business unit risk ROI and G&amp;A.
The integration team is intensely focused on building a world-class management information system which once complete will provide our teams and the company with the data and infrastructure that is unparalleled in the industry.
As always but especially in today's environment we believe our success is all about execution.
If we execute well we can navigate our business through any market cycle.
While economic growth maybe slower than originally anticipated we expect the rebuilding of inventories to normalized levels to be a powerful driver of demand for industrial real estate just as we've discussed for some time now.
Today the utilization rate of our facilities remains high and we see incremental demand for new space going forward.
This is evidenced by leasing activity which was strong across all our major regions including Europe.
In fact the team delivered the strongest third quarter of leasing since 2008.
Much of the success we've had in the third quarter was a result of the talented and dedicated global team firing on all cylinders.
Walt and I are very proud of what the team has accomplished thus far and we're just getting started.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bill so he can walk you through the financial results and update you on our guidance.
Thanks Hamid.
This morning I will focus my comments on 5 key areas: first enhancement to our supplemental package; second results from the quarter; third our capital markets activity; fourth guidance for the balance of the year; and fifth the progress on merger integration.
Following our second quarter call we actively sought input to the supplemental disclosures from investors research analysts as well as our own people.
As a result we made what we believe are significant enhancements to the package this quarter.
Notably we expanded the disclosure of our operating portfolio on land by market.
We reoriented the capital deployment schedules detailing the totals as well as our share of the dispositions acquisitions and development.
We enhanced the visibility into our co-investment funds.
We added disclosure around our debt metrics.
And finally we modified the NAV component disclosure to provide a clearer view of the operating portfolio NOI for valuation purposes.
We look forward to your feedback on these expanded disclosures and will continue to listen to reasonable suggestions for incremental or clarifying data opportunities.
Now let me turn to the third quarter financials.
For the quarter core FFO was $0.44 per share inclusive of a current tax benefit equal to approximately $0.03 per share.
The operating performance for the quarter exceeded our internal forecast principally due to: better-than-expected occupancy driving higher NOI; lower-than-forecasted G&amp;A reflective of our focus on and success in driving the merger synergies; and lower-than-forecasted interest expense principally based on lower borrowing costs.
Moving now to our operating portfolio and metrics.
Leasing volume was solid across all regions and in total we leased 33.4 million square feet during the quarter.
Europe was a particular bright spot in the quarter given the macro issues which resurfaced in mid-August.
Our European operating portfolio ended the quarter at 90% occupied up 70 bps from Q2.
Our overall operating portfolio was 91% occupied at the end of the third quarter and increased 30 basis points from the second quarter end.
In our same-store portfolio net operating income declined by 0.7% in the third quarter.
As a result of the purchase accounting we marked all of the AMB and PEPR leases to market and restarted rent leveling.
The net impact of these noncash adjustments was approximately 70 basis points.
Without the adjustment same-store NOI would have been flat.
Our same-store NOI will be similarly impacted through Q2 2012.
Our expectation is the same store [ph] NOI for 2011 will be plus or minus 50 basis points for the year.
From a capital deployment perspective we have built in dispositions and contributions totaling $333 million for the quarter at a weighted average cap rate of 7.3% and land sales proceeds of $58 million.
Prologis's share of the proceeds from those transactions totaled $292 million.
We acquired $121 million of buildings in the third quarter at a weighted average stabilized cap rate of 7.2%.
Prologis's share of total investment was $70 million.
We commenced $134 million of development which monetized $20 million of land from our balance sheet.
Of the total expected investment 38% was inside the funds and 62% was on the balance sheet.
Prologis's share of total investment was $98 million.
Turning now to capital markets.
We had a busy quarter on the capital markets front completing over $975 million of capital markets transaction of which $550 million was Prologis's share.
We bought back $135 million of our 2012 convertible debt in the open market.
We bought EUR 64 million or about $85 million of the PEPR 2014 bonds in the open market.
We paid off EUR 109 million or about $146 million of PEPR's 2012 corporate term loan with the proceeds from the PEPR equity offering and PEPR retained cash flow.
Importantly PEPR's debt rating was upgraded to investment grade and the interest rate on the PEPR bonds was reduced by 175 basis points as of October 23.
We paid off refinanced or extended $410 million of other secured and unsecured debt and we closed on a new $200 million unsecured line of credit for our U.S.
Logistics Fund.
This 4-year term facility will be used as interim capital for acquisition activity prior to refinancing on a long-term basis.
Q3 was kind of a push relative to debt paydowns.
However our overall debt metrics improved due to the underlying operating performance.
We have positioned ourselves well to achieve the deleveraging that we have as one of our 4 strategic priorities.
In that vein since the beginning of Q4 we have closed on $453 million of contributions with Prologis receiving 100% of the proceeds.
Those proceeds were used to pay down $320 million of 2011 and 2012 secured debt maturities as well as over $125 million of our line all of which was on our balance sheet.
Let me turn now to our guidance for the remainder of 2011.
In light of the robust sales environment for industrial property as well as our desire to fully kickstart our deleveraging we are substantially increasing our disposition guidance for the second half of the year to $1.8 billion to $2 billion from the original target range of $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion.
With $844 million of contributions and dispositions completed so far in the second half we need just over $1 billion during the remainder of Q4 to reach the midpoint of our guidance of which over 90% will be Prologis's share.
We expect roughly 37% of that will come from contributions to the funds and 63% will be third-party sales.
The assets related to the fund contributions have been identified and the funds have the capital raised and allocated.
Our third-party sales activity is well underway focused predominately in the U.S.
and Europe with more assets or portfolios active than necessary to achieve our target.
Turning to the acquisition guidance.
We will continue to be disciplined in our capital deployment and only complete capital transactions that meet our return and risk hurdles.
Our original guidance on building acquisitions for the second half of 2011 was a range of $300 million to $550 million.
We are now lowering the range to $225 million to $275 million our share which will be 30%.
We closed on $121 million in Q3.
Therefore our guidance range for Q4 is roughly $100 million to $150 million with 100% of that activity scheduled to take place in the European and U.S.
funds.
For development starts our original guidance for the second half of 2011 was a range of $600 million to $800 million which we are now reducing to $325 million to $375 million.
We started $134 million of developments in Q3 of which Prologis's share was $98 million.
Our guidance range for Q4 is $190 million to $240 million of development starts.
Approximately 60% of those are targeted to take place inside the funds while 40% or so will be on the balance sheet and Prologis's overall share will be approximately $130 million.
Roughly $250 million of the guidance reduction relates to timing around the number of build-to-suit transactions.
We remain confident in those transactions but it moved the expected timing to 2012.
Based on our performance in the third quarter and our expectations for the fourth quarter operating environment we are raising our core FFO guidance for the second half of 2011 to $0.83 to $0.85 per share.
This represents an increase in second half guidance of $0.04 per share from midpoint-to-midpoint.
With $0.44 of core FFO reported for Q3 this translates to guidance of $0.39 to $0.41 per share in core FFO for Q4.
Of the $0.44 per share core FFO in Q3 $0.03 was a tax benefit that was expected and embedded in our original guidance and hence $0.41 was the run rate on operations.
Our substantial disposition and contribution activity planned for Q4 will have a dilutive effect versus our Q3 NOI run rate.
This decrease is expected to be mostly offset by increased NOI associated with the expected occupancy gains as well as a decrease in interest expense as we used much of the Q4 sales and contribution proceeds to pay down debt.
Finally let's turn to our integration and merger savings.
We are very pleased with our overall progress which is on target for $90 million or more of merger savings.
We are ahead of plan from our original plan from a timing standpoint.
In addition to this merger cost savings we are also realizing significant interest cost reductions related to the reduced borrowing margin on our lines of credit.
In closing we feel great about where we are and where we are going.
This merger is working.
We are performing well and are executing on every one of our strategic initiatives.
At this point I will turn the call back to the operator to open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> On the disposition front can you add a little color to the types of assets that you're selling? I know you mentioned U.S.
and Europe primarily but what types of assets fit the profile for the increased dispositions.
And as we look ahead into 2012 is it reasonable to assume that this pick up in disposition activity is the trend that we should expect into next year as well? This is Mike Curless.
In terms of profile the mix of the offerings are out there.
We currently have 8 packages worldwide that are out 5 in the U.S.
3 in Europe.
And I'd say it's a good blend of older and newer product in both global and regional markets and we would expect that similar mix to carry forward into next year.
And we would anticipate that we'd have a very active disposition platform next year as well.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Mike why don't you just drill in a little deeper on that and talk about the fact that some of your buildings have relatively short lease terms some of them have much longer lease terms some of them are still probably above market some of them are below market and talk about how you think about your dispositions as it relates to premium or discount to replacement costs and overall of exiting markets.
Okay.
John let me take this strategically and Mike can fill in the details.
The bottom line is that we have divided up our markets into the 3 categories that I think we explained on the last call.
We have the global markets which are really representing about 80% of our current holdings that are tied to the global supply chain and they're identified in our supplemental.
You can see what they are.
Those we're basically pruning.
Very small I would say less than 5% of those will be sold over the next couple of years.
And it's really just that we have some soft markets that are not a perfect fit or there are specific assets that may have issues.
There may be user sales involved in that.
There are -- but a very small portion of those assets are being sold.
Then we have the markets that are the regional markets that represent about 12% 13% of our holdings.
I would say there we're going to over time own the top 50% in terms of quality and age of those assets in those regional markets and we're going to increase our holdings by building out our land bank in those markets.
So basically we'll sell some will build out the land bank and we will generally have some holdings of assets and regional markets but probably smaller than the 12% 13% that we have today.
And then we have the balance of the portfolio which is 7% in other markets that you can think of as exit markets and those markets will be eventually sold -- will be sold out over the next 3 years.
So with respect to trends with leasing length and all that there -- it's more of a submarket asset decision than what the specifics of leasing are at any given moment.
Obviously if a building is vacant and it's going to be discounted heavily we'll lease it before we put it in the pool.
But we're selling enough of the stuff over time and we have enough visibility into what we're going to do in the future that we can generally manage that process pretty well.
So I wouldn't read too much into the trends of all that.
With respect to replacement costs I would tell you that with land at market and of course nobody really knows what the -- what market value for land is today I would say most of the dispositions would be still at a discount to a replacement cost.
But of course some of them maybe older products so how do you factor depreciation and all that.
But I would say we're not selling too many assets at above replacement costs where replacement cost is a hard thing to establish.
Mike any additional color on that? Don't think so.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Sullivan with Bank of America.
LLC Research Division</strong> So my question is in terms of the leasing discussions you had in the third quarter the kinds of leases you signed in the third quarter versus what you are having -- kind of discussions you're having today and even for people who are looking in the fourth quarter.
Is there any change in the kinds of demand? I mean for example like was third quarter more pent-up demand that's finally is getting signed or has -- maybe now has changed? I'm just trying to get a little more color on what's really going on out there.
Right Jamie this is Gene.
Let me take a stab at that and maybe Gary can put some color for Europe and Asia.
But frankly we really haven't seen that.
We've seen the same patterns of a lot of demand from larger companies typically looking for larger floor plates and those spaces are really beginning to run out in the U.S.
at least.
But that pattern continues.
In terms of small businesses and small units frankly we expected given the headwinds that we faced in August and September to see that dampen back quite a bit and we really didn't see it.
Perhaps that's something we're going to see translate in the fourth quarter.
We'll see Jamie but we didn't see that either.
And as a matter of fact for those units there is positive absorption in our portfolio and the broader national markets.
And these are for the small units.
But I think your question is really directed to what have the -- of the economic headwinds or macro headwinds in August and September done to the nature of demand.
Frankly in the Americas we really haven't seen it set in.
Jamie let me give you a little bit color on Europe.
When you look at traffic July and August is as July and August is in Europe.
It's typically lower than in April and May but again that's typical for summer months.
We saw very very strong September and October shaping up nicely.
When you look at really what's happened over the course of the last 3 quarters in terms of trends we've got 2 things happening in Europe you've got a consolation trend and you got an expansion joint.
20% of the deals that we did over the first 3 quarters were consolidations.
And basically what's happening are companies are still trying to squeeze costs out of supply chain.
That makes perfect sense in this environment.
The second thing that's happening though that I think is more interesting is we're seeing expansions.
You've got 52% of our leases were the first 3 quarters that are in some form of expansion mode and that is directly tied to the fact that you've got very very high utilization rates from our European customers in excess of 90% in some cases.
So I think one of the things that we're seeing and the result of that is that take up of space.
There's literally no new spec space in Europe and you see that manifested in build-to-suit development.
Today when you look at the build-to-suits we've done we have 14 development starts 10 of which were build-to-suits in Europe.
So I think demand is still good.
We expect it to be strong through the balance of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Caton with Morgan Stanley.
I was hoping we could talk for a second about the private capital markets.
How is -- how are your LP partners doing in terms of contributing new capital? And if you could specifically comment on progress in Japan that would be helpful.
Sure Chris.
This is Guy.
Let me start with the Japan part.
We are in the market with a private placement memorandum on our Japan fund.
As such there's not a lot I can talk about on the public call so as not to be seen as soliciting.
But those initial discussions are going well.
There'll be 2 funds: one an open-end fund to which we'll contribute our assets on our balance sheet; and second the development fund that we will -- it will be our exclusive development vehicle for about the next 3 years in Japan.
With respect to discussions with private capital investors we've had a series of meetings with them.
We had investor forums in New York and Paris over the last quarter.
This is the fall conference season.
We've created a number of other venues in which to talk to them.
But in general I'd say that they're still interested in industrial real estate.
A lot of these pension funds institutions that they have in a mixed asset portfolio looking for 10% real estate if that's their allocation those don't change.
Those don't change week-to-week or month-to-month.
It's still a 10% allocation and these are things they review over a year or 2 or 3 years.
I think -- and also talking to them if you elevate the discussion to maybe the CIO level everyone's looking at where there might be risks but in this environment do you want to take money out of real estate and put it in bonds? That's not a question that they're asking themselves right now.
I think on the margin where we might be seeing a shift in the spring there's a lot more discussion of “boy core has gotten pretty expensive cap rates are getting low is it overbought.” You've heard people pontificating on now might be a time to go up the risk curve go for a little yield.
You're hearing much less of that right now where I think people are appreciating a little bit more the safety of core.
But I think it's still going to be a good fundraising environment for us for the next several quarters.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Anyways Hamid or Bill I want to spend some time just talking about the balance sheet which is obviously one of your key priorities.
Where you sit today debt-to-gross assets is about 46% debt-to-core-cash EBITDA call it 9.5 9.6x on an annualized basis.
And you obviously have about $1 billion of contributions and sales in the fourth quarter which obviously helps debt to gross assets come down but it doesn't make -- it only makes 0.25-point dent in debt-to-EBITDA because you're selling away cash flow.
So what exactly -- as you think about your targets what are you targeting specifically to get to in terms of your debt metrics? And I realize part of it's deleveraging and part of it's going to be increases in existing cash flow.
In -- how are you going to get to those targets? And then what sort of dilution should the Street sort of expect as you delever? And Bill you talked about the fourth quarter being lower because you're starting to sell assets and obviously selling assets at 7% 7.5% 8% cap rates and paying back a little coupon debt is dilutive.
So I'm just trying to put it all together about where you really want to be.
Hamid just talked about top 3 balance sheet but can we just get specific in terms of what are you exactly targeting on a debt-to-EBITDA debt-to-assets and how you get there? Miguel I'd like to address that excellent question.
Basically the answer is the same as the material that we showed you in our equity offering.
And I think just to refresh your memory on the 3 metrics I think in terms of debt turns to EBITDA by 2013 we're going to be in the 5 to 6x range.
In terms of lever of -- level of debt to book or market capital or whatever you want to look at it we're going to be around 30%.
Bill and I had a little thing going whether we're going to be 30% to 35% I think we settled that around 30%.
We're going to have a little bit of preferred on top of that.
And in terms of coverage we're going to get into the high 2s and half of that improvement is going to come from operating results and half of it is going to come from deleveraging.
The dilution is not as bad as you think because we're monetizing land at the same time which has negative yields.
And when you blend that in with dispositions -- and I don't know where you got your 8% the dispositions have been in the low 7s and we're actually not selling the best assets in that portfolio.
And you look at the fact that the Japan assets on our balance sheet are probably 5.5% cap assets.
We're actually probably going to be moving off of the balance sheet between land at 0 or negative Japan at 5.5%.
And let's say U.S.-type dispositions at low 7s we're probably going to be moving assets off the books at 5.5% to 6%.
And we have some opportunities to buy back some pretty expensive debt at about that.
So this is one of the few times in life that you can actually delever and not suffer too much dilution and hopefully get multiple expansion because of a better balance sheet.
So that would be the big picture number.
Bill do you want to -- and I think we're doing all that sooner than we thought based on the progress at least on dispo side.
Bill you want to add color on that? Yes.
I'm going to add I think you hit the metrics right on Hamid.
And I would emphasize that particularly as we look into 2012 and what our target dispositions are going to be we're not guiding for 2012 today.
But I mean Japan is obviously our #1 focus and that is a pretty good cap rate market today.
And so it will be modestly dilutive but between occupancy gains that we expect rental bumps and hope for a turnaround in rental rates over the next 2 years as well as disposition of the land it overall will not be as dilutive as one might think.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
Returning to your comments about decrease in the development starts for the second half of this year -- or fourth quarter and maybe going forward in 2012.
How much of that is being driven by your decision to decrease spec development versus build-to-suit activity? And could you also tie that in with how much land you think you can monetize in 2012? We're not going to guide to anything on 2012 Ki but I'd -- let's let Mike kind of talk about the specifically and build-to-suit.
Just kind of circling back to [indiscernible] comments the delta in the guidance this year is driven by approximately $250 million build-to-suits that we're actively working on that just have been pushed into the 2012.
We fully expect to be successful on those deals.
So again the operative part there is a reduction.
It's a delay in the build-to-suit volume.
We have not had any marginal or any noticeable decrease in our plant spec volume.
Spec buildings we've built this year have been all very well thought out and then they're in markets that we have existing parts long track records and in cities and end markets that have extremely high demand.
Yes.
I just -- I would add I think our development starts for the rest of the year you're going to see in -- again some of those better markets floor spec development in Brazil and other submarkets where -- and we've talked about these.
We're highly focused on a number of submarkets or markets in the U.S.
and in Europe where spec development in fact does make sense today.
And back to Jamie's comment earlier in the grand scheme of things the -- most all of our markets are running out of a big box space today.
And so there is a trend towards leasing the bigger spaces today with the lack of new supply.
Don't be surprised to see a larger build-to-suit as well as in select markets spec activity because we think the demand is there.
Yes.
I don't want to pile on here but I think there's some important some things but maybe we're assuming and we should say it so that we're all on the same page.
I think the fact of the matter is that the big companies around the world are using this downturn as an opportunity to take cost out of their supply chains because the top line growth in their businesses is more anemic than they would have thought otherwise.
So when you can't grow your top line as much you try to focus on cost.
And those companies have the balance sheet and access to capital to be able to invest in their supply chain.
So the first thing they want to do is consolidate and they go around looking for buildings.
And they all start with a build-to-suit requirement because usually the operating people want to design the perfect building for them.
Except when they get out there they realize that there are still some spec buildings lying around that while not perfect they can lease at 70% of what it would cost to build a new building.
So the first order of business is for all of those things to get filled up and they just did.
I mean basically our buildings over 250 000 feet I think are 99% occupied.
So there is very little that they can see in bulk space in our portfolio and I think we have a probably a pretty reasonable view of the market about 600 million feet of space so.
And the big spaces are gone.
So the next phase is that those things -- they can't buy those buildings anymore at 70% of replacement cost or lease them at that rent.
They're going to have to actually go through with their build-to-suit.
And there's a little bit of sticker shock involved in that and that delays decisions.
So that's kind of what the dynamics of the marketplace is.
But at the end of the day unless somebody beams in some really big buildings from outer space it's going to lead to more build-to-suit activities going forward not because we're in such a great economy but because they need to continue to take costs out of the system.
So that's the dynamic of the market.
And that's what exactly we've seen in Gary's region what the high percentage of build-to-suits do to the dearth large available spaces in existing buildings.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I know you don't want to talk about 2012 with respect to dispositions but just when you think about the next few years think about assets that you would like to sell to third parties product that you'd like to ultimately put into fund can -- what is the overall size of the pool that you are looking at selling or contributing at this point in time at PLD share? I think I will refer you right back to when we did the equity offering in July.
Nothing has changed from the kind of numbers we were talking about.
Basically we have a deleveraging strategy based on some fund contribution some third-party sales and a new fund formation and our numbers in our view has not changed in any material way.
The only thing that has changed is that on the contributions and third-party sales we're executing much faster than we thought before.
And I think at the time the consensus of most people listening to our deleveraging plans was that we were being aggressive.
And I don't know ultimately whether we -- it will prove that we're aggressive or not but I think we're actually on the front end appear to have been somewhat conservative.
We're doing better than what we thought but nothing's really changed.
Your next question comes from the line of George Auerbach with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on Ki's questions.
Can you help us think about how the development pipeline could or should ramp up over the next few quarters? I know you spoke in the past of a $2-billion-plus annual start run rate.
But it seems at the time it keeps getting delayed by some macro headwinds.
In your view do you guys have paid the kind of $2 billion run rate will be a 2012-'13 event or should we see this being a bit further out than that? George I really can't give you a prediction on what the world economy is going to do in the next couple of years.
And I think the worst part of any kind of guidance is capital deployment guidance because it depends on what the opportunities are and the opportunities at best we have a 6-month view of what they are.
So beyond that we get into speculation.
I think the 2 number -- $2 million -- actually it's a $2 million to $3 million number that you recall -- billion dollar number that you recall is a summation of our business leaders in various markets in the world telling us what they think the run rate opportunities are in their markets at the market equilibrium.
So when things are normal and vacancies are at equilibrium what is the volume of business that you can do to that market? You add up all that and it ends up being about $2.3 billion $2.4 billion.
But whether it takes us 2 years to get there or 3 years to get there or never to get there I mean we're not going to try to drive to that number just to meet an artificial guidance and do bad deals.
We're going to be patient and do the right deals.
And if we're to fall short of that so be it.
Your next question comes from the line of John Stewart with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First of all I wanted to echo Jamie's point on the much-improved disclosure.
I think all of your public market constituents appreciate that so thank you for that.
Hamid I was intrigued by your comment about the $3 billion of U.S.
funds that you're winding down.
I was hoping you could give us an update in terms of that process where you stand.
And then I appreciate that you aren't giving 2012 guidance and can't really forecast the global economy out 2 to 3 years but I was hoping you could give us a bit of macro perspective ideally on the U.S.
Europe and Asia over the next few months.
And then two it's -- maybe a related point.
Just curious that all of your investment activity assumptions are dilutive.
You're ratcheting up your disposition guidance and reducing investment and development and acquisitions yet raising FFO for the fourth quarter.
So just hoping you could touch on that as well.
Okay.
Let me -- let Bill do the numbers for the fourth quarter.
In terms of absorption we do have a point of view but frankly it's a little frustrating to talk about it because nobody believes it anyway so -- but actually we've been pretty remarkably good at predicting absorption.
Three years ago we said that the market was going to turn and U.S.
was going to absorb 100-million feet starting mid-2010 and everybody basically pooh-poohed that.
And this year we said that absorption was going to be in the mid-100-million-foot range in the U.S.
and I think it's going to end up being 135 million feet.
And at least based on 3 quarters we're well on track to have that.
And I don't think we've really changed our view because of what the headlines have been in the last couple of months.
I think if you're going to ask me for a number for 2012 in the U.S.
absorption of industrial space I'd say it's in the mid-100s call it 140 million to 150 million feet on that range.
And that's what our model show and that's what IAI and IBI indicate today.
Of course that doesn't assume any further inflection points in things that we don't control.
So we -- and by the way that's not spectacular.
I mean this economy should be -- the U.S.
market should be absorbing 250 million feet a year so we're way subpar in terms of a normal market.
So it's still a pretty anemic market but it's not a negative market.
The key difference between now and 2008 is that 2008 came after many good years and people were always at growth projections.
People had always over-leased space in anticipation of growth and there was excess capacity in the system.
In this time around they've squeezed everything they can so they're very tight on space.
And as the inventory to sales ratio recovers and it has been recovering in the last 3 or 4 months even in light of the slowing economy that's really what's driving absorption.
It's not really GDP growth that's driving absorption.
On the $3-billion private capital thing I didn't say we're going to get out of $3 billion of assets.
I said $3 billion of funds are in play.
The end result of that will not be that $3 billion of assets go away.
In fact we're going to end up with a bunch of those assets because we own a percentage of those assets.
And we may buy some more and we'll end up recapitalizing some of those assets in the fewer vehicles that we have going forward.
With respect to the specifics supporting that statement Guy do you want to make some comments? Yes sure.
This is Guy.
Those are 4 existing funds we have.
They are under fee structures that really don't allow us to make a profit for the management that we do.
They also have governance in which we have to go to our partners or a third party for approval on decisions down to the operating level like leasing and things.
And on a 600-million square foot portfolio it just doesn't make sense to have a certain portion of them that our teams can't manage and lease like they do the rest.
So we are in conversations with our partners and investors.
I think what you'll see over the next couple of quarters is those 4 funds drop off of our supplemental.
Some of those assets will be sold some will be transferred to our partners and a number of them will just come on to our balance sheet.
You'll see them on the balance sheet for a while until they go back out into other funds and we expect that to happen over the next couple of quarters.
If I just add to that and Guy tell me if I'm speaking out of school but I mean I'm thinking of 3 specifically is our underlying investors actually want to continue to buy but we have funds.
Our open-ended funds are focused on very specific strategies.
So part of this is even eliminating some of the conflicts on buying and I don't know how big a deal is.
Yes.
Just one last comment to make sure that it's not taken wrong.
All 4 of these are conversations that we initiated based on the directions that we're going strategically the private capital platform.
None of these are initiated by our partners.
And finally John on the analysts package thank you.
Your comments and comments we got from others are very helpful in revamping that and...
And Tracy and her team did a fabulous job.
Yes did a great job.
Seeking out opinions and then guiding that process so.
Your next question comes from the line of Sloan Bohlen with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Maybe if we could stick with the a $3-billion wind down just for a second.
Could you guys even provide sort of kind of a big goal post for us to look at in terms of maybe timing potential proceeds how much debt is tied to those funds? Just give us a sense of what could come up the balance sheet.
If I were going to pick a guess and it will be a really big guess is that we're going to end up retaining more than 50% of those assets.
And on average those assets are 50% 60% probably levered.
So those -- but that's a real wild guess.
And all of these things are in play so I don't think -- I don't want that to become to firm a guidance or whatever.
But that's sort of magnitude what we're talking about which in the context by the way of $45 billion platform even though those are billions of dollars it's not a needle moving in very major way.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Rodgers with RBC Capital Mortgage (sic) [Markets].
LLC Research Division</strong> Hamid in that thing during your presentation you referenced earlier I think one of the last sources of capital was the recapitalization of PEPR and you discussed it to some degree on the last call.
I was wondering if you can provide an update on -- we can obviously see in the supplement where you are with the ownership but the hurdles to getting to the point both legally and financially where you could begin to siphon that off the balance sheet again and broad range again maybe wide goal post in the sense of when you would be ready to do that.
I'll let Walt actually talk about that.
Walt? Yes.
Hopefully everybody can hear me.
Dave first of all I'd say that we've been very focused on first of all managing the operations and PEPR's debt profile.
Bill went through some of those metrics and we were pretty doggone pleased that we got the upgrade from Moody's.
We're going to save EUR 9 million a year in interest.
And also as Bill said we're not done yet.
We're going to continue to retain cash flow and continue to pay down debt.
So we are -- we've been very focused on the operations.
I'd say as regards to our plans for the future I don't think anybody believes that PEPR is in the right structure for the long run.
But these things take time to sort out mainly because the process involves multiple parties some regulatory oversight that sort of thing.
I just think it's too early to speculate at this point in time on our plans right now.
And so in the meantime we're going to continue to focus on operating the portfolio.
And I think we'll let you know more as we gain a little bit more insight in the future.
But I think it's going to take some time and there are multiple parties and the like involved at this point.
Yes.
The only thing I would add to what Walt said is that if you go back and look at the presentation that we both referenced you'll see that the PEPR recap is actually in the different section and towards the bottom of the page.
I think the assumption you should make about that is that we're totally comfortable holding PEPR as it is for a long period of time and that plan goes to 2013.
So without being predictive about the timing I would say we're hankering for the long term of owning and running PEPR the way it is.
And if we end up doing something different with it great.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Benyik with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I was hoping to delve a little bit further into the asset sales side of the equation.
You're looking at over $600 million of asset sales through year-end to third parties.
I was hoping you could talk a little about the profile the buyers that are interested in those assets.
And then just more broadly when you're looking at getting down to a 5 6x net debt-to-EBITDA you're probably looking at a couple of billion $2 billion to $3 billion of dispositions annually through 2013.
So I'm wondering on those back-end loaded dispositions is there a meaningful difference between what has been sold recently that $844 million versus future sales then some of those could be coming from more of the regional or other markets that represents 137 million square feet according to the sub? Okay.
In terms of the profile of sales down feature as I mentioned before I see the profile the types of buildings to be very similar.
And in terms of our disposition activity right now the early read is -- has been very positive.
We have a large portfolio of United States and one of the United Kingdom.
We just received 22 offers across those 2 portfolios.
So we're pretty excited with respect to the initial reads in terms of the activity.
We have offers coming in on the balance of those here in the next couple of weeks.
So for this year again we feel very confident in terms of our ability to exceed the midpoint of the guidance.
And I feel comfortable about getting that ramped up.
Yes.
And I don't know what you're referring to as the 137 million square feet but I think one way to think about it if you're going to want to be very numeric about it is that I think you should think about 3% to 5% of global markets.
You should think of 30% 40% net because we're going to be obviously building out on land bank.
30% 40% of the regional markets and all of the other markets essentially over the 3-year time period.
And the only thing you should conclude is that it's actually not back-end loaded but more front-end loaded than our plan was that we laid out in July.
Because as you just heard we're basically -- we're seeing a good market and we're actually moving more of that up.
And don't forget the contribution side which is the side that we control more and have very good visibility into because that accounts -- the contributions and formations of new funds the Japan fund for example are a big source of that.
So even putting PEPR aside per the previous question we have significant fund contribution fund formation and third-party sale opportunities available.
In fact we have I would say probably 130% 140% of what we need between all those different venues.
So we don't have to execute all of them.
Your next question comes from the line of Blaine Heck with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Hamid I just wanted to get some commentary on how you see the dividend going forward given that you don't seem to be covering it on a cash flow basis at this point.
And the ramp-up and disposition activity late this year and next year combined with lower acquisitions and development doesn't really bode well for coverage at least in the near to midterms.
So just wanted to see how you're thinking about that.
Let me jump in for one quick second and everybody can slice and dice numbers.
But we monitor sources and uses statement on a monthly basis.
And at this point our AFFO the way that we view it internally and calculate it is right on top of the dividend.
And so we cover through AFFO.
On the dividend side and really our capital markets transactions are the plus or minus on our debt reduction.
And so again I'd be happy to -- and Tracy here or myself or the combination sort of walk through offline with where you're thinking about AFFO.
But we cover our dividend today.
We're not guiding to anything we might do in 2012 as it relates to operations capital or dividend at this point.
And we're not being nasty here.
We're just -- that will come as we pool together all the budgets and all of that is a subject to our Board of Director's approval in our December meeting not so -- but we're covering the dividend today.
So look to the capital markets transactions as the plus or minus on the debt reductions so.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
Just 2 quick questions.
One have you guys looked at the FASB accounting proposal for fair value accounting for real estate.
And given that in terms of a low dollar value property type how much do you think that'll cost you on an annualized basis? And second I guess it changes weekly but if I look at the CDF market for your debt it's come down significantly from the peaks.
And when you guys look at just overall refinancing is it mortgage debt or unsecured? And what you think the mark-to-market will be going forward? I'm sorry I was laughing about the fair market value accounting.
I may have missed some of the second part of it.
On the fair market value accounting let me just address it in a couple of ways.
We fair market value a whole bunch of the funds today and so the cost associated with doing that is already embedded in the cost structure.
And to the extent that if reserve or some form there thereof comes into play yes there will be some incremental costs associated with the appraisal activity et cetera.
It's sort of -- you don't want to get me on my high horse relative to FASB at this point because they're changing so many things in a period of economic uncertainty.
That is sort of goofy.
But anyway we're taking that into account and every time I turn around the sort of the move to that is getting pushed off one more year or so.
We would actually prefer the sort of fair market value accounting today because it would give us an opportunity to let people know the value creation that we're going to generate through our development activities et cetera and get away from this sort of gains and losses and things like that.
So overall the cost -- it will cost us a little more.
I don't think it's going to be anything exponential.
And I feel good about that.
In terms of our refinancing strategy or debt financing strategy let me simplify it as best as I can which is everything that's on our balance sheet today our intend is to pay off as it comes due.
And so -- and I've said this a couple of times you may see us do something in the form of a public bond in Europe or a bank longer-term term loan in Europe to get some euro-denominated debt because we do want to lower and put it in more of a natural hedge to the euro currencies.
We don't -- we wouldn't do that because we need the cash.
We'd do that basically to try to get some of our U.S.-dollar denominated debt into euros.
But on the balance sheet effectively assume that everything that comes due for the foreseeable future is going to be paid off as it matures.
On the -- in the fund side the funds and the underlying investors in certain instances like leverage and most of them are targeted in that 45% to 50% range.
We have a couple of funds that are new fund with Allianz and Europe is an example of an unlevered fund.
We don't use leverage in Brazil today.
But overall most of the fund investors sort of target that 45 to 50% levered category.
Today the vast majority of that debt is secured.
We're looking in the future and particularly with the larger open-ended funds of going to more of an unsecured debt structure because it gives us term and a little more flexibility and gives us unencumbered assets.
So that if we have a pinch in a financing environment in one way shape or form we have sufficient assets that we could use on a secured basis.
But particularly in Europe the secured financing is readily available.
It continues.
We've done a lot of transactions.
We're doing more in the fourth quarter here et cetera.
But it doesn't come with term.
And so in essence what you're going to see is probably a move to a more of an unsecured debt strategy in the funds but that won't eliminate all the secured debt.
Yes.
The only thing I would add Ki Bin is -- and you touched on Bill's favorite subject because he can get a chuckle out of this accounting something.
We kid him about that internally quite a bit With respect to the CDF issue I want to address something that may not be apparent.
One of the things that actually keeps me up at night a little bit is that I wish we could buy our debt back based on what shows up on the Bloomberg screen because we can.
Because I think one of our real issues is going to be that we're delevering faster than we thought and we're getting more cash because of the dispositions.
The pace of disposition's faster than we can get at our debt that expires.
So I would love to be able to actually as we generate cash from these proceeds be able to go back and buy the debt back at what's theoretically on the screen on the CBS but we can't.
I mean it just -- we always have to end up paying a lot more than that.
We've asked all the bankers to figure out how we can buy it how we...
Yes.
So if you guys can figure out a way that we can buy at what's on the Bloomberg screen it would be very helpful to us but -- because we'd push on disposing them faster.
Your next question comes from the line of Dee Sakwa with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> It's Steve Sakwa from ISI.
Hamid I just want to know if you could talk a little bit about the rent roll downs.
It seems like it's been sort of persistently stuck here in kind of the high single digits.
And I know at one point you thought that that number might trend towards kind of flat in 2012 and certainly turn positive in 2013.
And I'm just wondering given the uncertainty we're seeing in the marketplace do you see that getting pushed out at all or do you see enough strength taking place in the markets where you can actually see kind of the rent roll turning positive sometime at 2012? Well from a very macro picture I would say that that ranges 2012 or 2013 and we have a little bit of an in-house thing going on about that actually going back about 2 years exactly when the turning point will be.
But let me turn it over to Gene for the specifics.
Yes.
I think those -- that forecast holds and the other thing you got to remember about this metric it's really really volatile.
It's a chunk of the portfolio and it is affected by what happened in the prior period.
So it will be volatile.
And you're going to see it go up.
You're going to see it go down.
But it will trend in that direction.
And obviously we're getting into a period now where we're rolling leases that were signed sort of postcrisis and we did shorten up lease terms on both companies.
As to when that inflection point is as Hamid mentioned maybe that's a bet but it's in that -- it's going to be in that neighborhood in my view.
My bet is third quarter '12 but that's not the official company position.
Research Division</strong> Really? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
But I just had a couple of just income statement follow-ups.
And I don't know if my line's is going to stay open so let me just list them which is you talked about a $0.03 tax benefit and I just want to know what line items that was fully embedded in the income statement.
Can you talk a little bit about -- now that you've gotten the G&amp;A savings a little bit earlier and it looks you've capitalized maybe at a bit more but just how that sort of G&amp;A forecast? And how we should think about the synergies on where you are heading into next year? And then just a clarification on the 5 to 6x leverage Hamid that you mentioned is that consolidated PLD balance sheet or is that a fully looked through number? And I believe you quote that on either case on a GAAP basis.
But I just want to make sure that the terminology that we have down pat.
Great.
So I've got recent tax benefit.
I got the look-through leverage and what was your middle one? Research Division</strong> G&amp;A.
Okay.
On the $0.03 tax benefit it's in the current tax line on the FFO statement.
And again big picture is if you looked historically at PLD we have this sort of tax benefit virtually every third quarter.
And it really relates to accruals also for tax positions that we take upon filing tax returns.
As those tax returns to reach their 3-year anniversary you reverse those accrual that are -- so it's pretty consistent theme throughout et cetera.
But what you'd see in a normal quarter and again there's variation because of different things but you'd see I don't know anywhere from $7 million to $9 million worth of tax expense on that current tax line item in the FFO statement in sort of an average quarter.
We got a positive $4 million this quarter.
So you're basically seeing that $0.03 tax benefit roll through that line.
On the G&amp;A front we are modestly ahead of plan in terms of the G&amp;A savings.
We are not done yet.
Let me tell you we're -- we've got a number of initiatives underway that we're focused on in terms of entity consolidations et cetera et cetera that will hopefully drive cost out of the system.
I think we've got real good transparency into where all these costs are.
We'll put together the 2012 budget and ripping it apart.
There's a high focus on it.
And so hopefully we'll see continued G&amp;A savings.
I'm not sure when you say the capitalization is slightly higher.
It's a little tough to tell because I don't think you had fabulous transparency into that in some of the historical numbers.
And so our capitalization is right on for -- from a pro-forma basis.
We sort of saw that.
On the debt metrics those are on look through.
Hamid won't let me talk about the balance sheet.
I just try try as I might he doesn't want me to talk about the balance sheet debt anymore.
So everything we talked about on debt metrics is on a look-through basis.
And I will emphasize from time to time how much of that debt came off our balance sheet just because it's the accountant in me.
Your next question comes from the line of John Stewart with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bill can you remind us how much you guys have yet to go in terms of merger integration costs that will hit over the next 5 quarters? And then maybe -- would it be possible to have Tom comment on systems integration? Well let me have Tom comment on both of those.
I'll take both.
On the merger cost side we'll probably -- we'll have around $55 million to $60 million of merger-related costs that will come in between Q4 and the end of 2012.
The vast majority of that is compensation related to folks that are in transition that have been identified that will be leaving the company between now and the end of 2012.
So in total that would get us around $170 million to $180 million in total merger cost that you'll see run through our income statement.
On the integration side things are going very well.
And quite frankly all of the heavy lifting around the integration is really completed.
We've got some things that will continue on for a period of time like Bill mentioned entity consolidation and the like.
But the real heavy lifting everything around that has been completed.
We've got all of the operations teams and the back-office functions around the world fully integrated at this point.
Our big focus right now has shifted to the system side where we're upgrading our systems.
We're building a world-class -- what we believe will be a world-class technology platform.
So I'm saying that I think we'll be unique in the real estate industry given our global reach and our FX requirements.
Our plan so far is going very very well in that regard and we think the system will give us a strategic advantage in order to mine data realtime.
When you think about a portfolio of 600 million square feet and tapping into that portfolio with realtime data decision-making looking around corners very very excited about what that will do.
We've got a very strong executive sponsorship for it and we've got a great team in place to make it happen.
And a little specifics around the -- what you're going to see going forward we'll have a global ERD [ph] leasing system up in April of 2012.
We'll have a updated version of PeopleSoft up in October of '12 and we'll have an Oracle database analytic engine around that that will come up in tandem with both systems.
The bottom line we feel good about our progress on that front.
The only thing I want to add to this is that there has been some -- I've read some reports about the -- our systems is not going well or anything like that I think that may have been attributable to a comment that I made that I think to -- at the one of the conferences where people said "Well what keeps you up at night." And I said "Look we are right now running 2 parallel systems for some period of time until this ERD thing gets complete in the first quarter." And that has created a lot of stress and hard work on the part of our people in the field who are really dealing with the complexities of 2 systems.
So in the interest of perfect candor I would say a lot of our property management and accounting people in the field are working really really hard to flawlessly execute and close the books on time make sure that the tenants are billed on time and all that and they've been fabulous.
And we haven't missed a single beat.
But until the systems are in place that part of our organization is going to continue to have to work pretty hard.
That's all I meant.
The integration is actually going quite well and the system's part is very much on track.
We're not going off and buying an off-the-shelf system that exists.
We're basically creating it for industry in a global context.
So I think this thing is going to be really good when it's done.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Sullivan with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> And you probably already answered this but did you guys mention -- or can you talk a little bit about any change in either the fund piece stream or fund operations based on the restructurings? Sure I'll try it.
This is Guy.
I mean I think we made the comments earlier but I think what you'll see is some of the unprofitable funds that we've had will drop off.
I mean those assets -- we'll retain a number of those assets and they'll be redirected [ph] back into other funds.
So I think you'll see initially some of those fees drop off for a quarter or so and I think you'll then see them come back on.
We also have some new funds that we're launching like the Japan fund.
I think we've got -- you'll see start to come on in sort of the middle of next year.
Okay.
I think that's the last of the questions.
So let me just make a few comments at the end.
As I've started with this morning I'm very pleased with the third quarter results on many fronts.
Bottom line there are 3 key takeaways from today's call.
First during the quarter we made great strides at executing our strategic plan.
Second we're making excellent process on integrating our people systems and operations.
We're really fortunate to have a team of highly competent and dedicated individuals who really spared no effort to make sure that the needs of our customers and investors are met everyday.
And finally despite the recent slowdown in the global economic recovery we remain excited about the opportunities that we see ahead.
In short we're rolling with considerable momentum into the fourth quarter.
Thanks for joining us today and we look forward to seeing many of you at NAREIT in a couple of weeks.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jessica and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Prologis Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Tracy Ward Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications you may begin your conference.
Thank you Jessica.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our fourth quarter 2011 conference call.
The supplemental document is available on our website at prologis.com under Investor Relations.
This morning we'll hear from Hamid Moghadam Co-CEO and Chairman to comment on our company strategies and market environment; and then from Bill Sullivan the CFO who will cover results and guidance.
Additionally we are joined by Walt Rakowich Gary Anderson Mike Curless Guy Jaquier Tom Olinger and Gene Reilly.
Before we begin the prepared remarks I'd like to quickly state that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements under Federal Securities laws.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates and projections about the market and the industry in which Prologis operates as well as management's beliefs and assumptions.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and actual operating results may be affected by a variety of factors.
For a list of those factors please refer to forward-looking statement notice in our 10-K or on SEC filings.
I'd also like to state that our fourth quarter results press release and supplemental do contain financial measures such as FFO EBITDA that are non-GAAP measures.
And in accordance with Reg G we have provided a reconciliation to those measures.
[Operator Instructions] Hamid will you please begin? Good morning everyone and welcome to our earnings call.
As you know 2011 was a year of transformation for our company.
It's rare in business that 2 leading companies from the same sector are able to combine so seamlessly.
Walt and I are very pleased to report that the integration has exceeded our expectations.
You may recall at the outset of the merger we established 4 key priorities to guide our path over the next 2 years.
These priorities were: First to align our portfolio with our investment strategy; second to strengthen our financial position; third to streamline our Private Capital business; and fourth to improve the utilization of our low-yielding assets.
We've made excellent progress on these 4 objectives.
And I'd now like to take a few moments to review their essential highlights.
Of the 4 priorities probably the most central to our plan is our decision to refine the combined portfolio and to align it with our investment strategy because in many ways the other priorities flow from this one.
The merger expanded our portfolio.
And as you'd expect not all of those assets were a perfect fit for the new Prologis.
We performed a comprehensive review of our markets and our properties and constructed a $2.9 billion third-party disposition plan to cull the portfolio over the next 2 years.
Execution of this plan is well underway.
During the second half of the year our share of third-party dispositions of buildings and land generated more than $530 million in total proceeds.
Our sale properties were located predominantly in markets we've categorized as regional or other and had an average age of about 25 years.
The disposition momentum has carried into 2012 as we've continued to see solid demand and capital available for high-quality industrial real estate acquisitions around the globe.
In fact we've closed more than 425 million of dispositions year-to-date of which our share is $385 million.
This includes the sale of a 3.5 million square foot portfolio in the U.K.
that closed just this morning.
This brings our share of third-party sale proceeds from the second half of the year to $915 million.
Our second priority is to further strengthen our financial position.
Our sales proceeds enhance our stated objective to build one of the strongest balance sheets in the industry and to lower our overall financial risk and currency exposure.
This means our assets outside the U.S.
will be held in Private Capital ventures.
New developments in these regions particularly in emerging markets will be done in conjunction with our Private Capital partners.
Here we are on track as well.
During the second half of the year our share of the contributions and sales to our core investment vehicles totaled more than $800 million.
Combined with our share of third-party dispositions we have generated more than $1.7 billion of capital for the company.
Turning to our third priority.
We've made great progress in rationalizing our Private Capital business.
Subsequent to year end we purchased our partner’s interest in NA2 and brought the portfolio onto our balance sheet.
We are engaged in similar discussions with our institutional partners regarding a couple of other funds and we expect to report on our progress soon.
We're also growing our Private Capital business with the formation of new funds and raising capital for our existing vehicles.
Our top focus is on establishing new core investment vehicles in Japan.
We began our marketing efforts for core and development ventures in November and are confident of a midyear close.
We're very encouraged by the high level of engagement of institutional investors.
And the number of potential partners in various stages of due diligence has increased fourfold over last year.
In short the Private Capital team is firing on all cylinders and we believe we can meet or even exceed last year's record fundraising level of $1.8 billion.
Our fourth priority is to improve the utilization of our low-yielding assets.
Our leasing teams have delivered excellent results across the board in 2011.
Activity was strong.
And we ended the year with occupancy in our global portfolio up 120 basis points from the third quarter.
And despite the problems in Europe our team continues to produce impressive results.
Fourth quarter occupancy in our European portfolio was up 160 basis points over the prior quarter.
Demand for our properties remains strong in Asia and we continue to lease new developments in both Japan and China well ahead of schedule.
Let me switch gears now and discuss our views on the operating environment and what we're seeing and hearing from our customers.
The primary indicators of our business tell us that the recovery is on track.
Global trade has been improving at a healthy pace in the ocean and air sectors.
Air cargo volumes experienced strong rebound in December and surpassed last year's record level.
Retailers and manufacturers rush shipments as sales outpace their inventory holdings.
We're seeing a similar trend in container volumes.
For ports reporting data through December volumes are up 6% year-over-year.
Looking to the U.S.
consumption retail sales and GDP have surpassed precrisis levels.
Historical data tells us that as consumption trends up customers will require more distribution and logistics space to accommodate their inventory restocking efforts.
You may recall in October we said that U.S.
inventories were low heading into the holiday season.
And as we anticipated real inventories grew in the fourth quarter.
Despite this growth real inventories remain 5% below their precrisis peak.
The continual rebuilding of our customers’ inventories will be a significant theme in 2012.
We closed out 2011 with positive net absorption of 120 million square feet in the U.S.
the strongest it's been since 2007.
We are forecasting an even stronger 2012 with positive net absorption in the range of 150 million to 175 million square feet.
Our customers indicate that they're entering 2012 with a higher level of optimism and with many new space requirements.
Following 3 years of inventory reduction and cost-saving efforts utilization is running high in our buildings.
And our customers have reached an inflection point where they can no longer delay decisions on expansion.
Of particular note demand is picking up among our small- and medium-sized customers as they gained an impressive 200 basis points in occupancy from the third quarter.
In fact they accounted for the vast majority of our occupancy gains during the quarter and will continue to drive occupancy and rents in the near term.
In short we had a very successful year.
Walt and I are extremely proud of what the team has accomplished in just a couple of quarters together.
We believe the opportunities ahead for the new Prologis are tremendous.
And we look forward to our continued success in 2012.
With that let me turn it over to Bill.
Thanks Hamid.
This morning I will focus my comments on 4 key areas: First results for the fourth quarter; second our capital markets activity; third an update on our merger integration; and fourth our guidance for 2012.
Let's start with fourth quarter results.
For the fourth quarter 2011 we generated core FFO of $0.44 per share which exceeded our original internal forecast by $0.04.
The strength in our Q4 core FFO was driven principally by higher-than-expected occupancy strong Private Capital revenues associated with our Q4 transaction activity various year-end adjustments and reduced G&amp;A expenses as a result of our deferred compensation plans.
From a run rate perspective approximately $0.025 per share of the $0.44 was related to the year-end adjustments and the effect of the onetime impact from the deferred comp.
In our operating portfolio leasing volume was strong across all regions.
And in total we leased more than 37 million square feet an 11% increase over the third quarter.
As Hamid referenced our operating portfolio was 92.2% occupied at year end up 120 basis points from the third quarter.
Rent changes on rollovers decreased 4.5% an improvement over the third quarter.
Which when combined with our strong occupancy led to an increase in same-store NOI of 0.4%.
From a contributions and dispositions perspective we completed approximately $1.2 billion in transactions in the fourth quarter of which approximately 83% or $1 billion was our share of the proceeds.
The weighted average stabilized cap rate on our share of contributions and dispositions was 7.1%.
The assets sold to third parties represented predominantly nonstrategic or non-core market assets.
In the contributions in sales to our co-investment ventures nearly 33% of the assets were in the higher cap rate markets of Mexico and Brazil.
Excluding those markets the weighted average stabilized cap rate would be 6.8%.
We also disposed of $32 million of land and monetized an additional $41 million of land through our Q4 development starts.
On the capital deployment front we committed approximately $345 million of capital of which $210 million was Prologis' share.
Our deployment included $166 million of development starts $146 million of building acquisitions and $32 million of land acquisitions.
Turning to capital markets.
In Q4 we completed more than $1.3 billion of debt financings and refinancings with nearly $1.1 billion of that on behalf of our co-investment ventures and $240 million related directly to Prologis.
Additionally we bought back over $75 million of debt associated with our converts and the PEPR bonds during the quarter.
These transactions in combination with the net effect of our Q4 disposition and capital deployment activity enabled us to lower our look through debt by over $900 million reduce our share of 2012 maturities by $400 million and improve our leverage stats across the board.
While we were pleased with our progress and exceeded our 2011 delevering objectives we remain laser-focused on achieving our long-term leverage and credit rating targets.
Relative to the merger integration we continue to make excellent strides in both identifying and realizing merger synergies.
We have identified a total of $115 million in merger-synergy savings of which we have realized over 90% on a run rate basis as of year-end 2011.
We will continue to incur merger integration costs throughout 2012 related primarily to costs for the remaining transitional employees as well as our continuation of our rebranding efforts.
To be clear the heavy lifting associated with the integration is effectively complete.
It has gone extremely well and we could not be happier with the synergies and the collaboration among our teams.
Now turning to guidance for 2012.
We expect full year core FFO to be in the range of $1.60 to $1.70 per share.
As a reminder our core FFO excludes any gains or losses from disposition and contribution activity as well as merger integration costs.
While we don't guide to individual quarters it's important to note that core FFO will not be evenly distributed between quarters in 2012.
We expect first quarter core FFO to be lower than the fourth quarter of 2011 principally as a result of: First the $0.025 of Q4 adjustments in deferred comp savings I referenced earlier; second the NOI loss associated with the substantial disposition late in Q4 2011; third seasonally lower occupancy in Q1; and finally expected seasonal expenses associated with wintertime property OpEx.
We expect FFO to gradually increase as the year progresses driven principally from increasing occupancies in the operating portfolio stabilization of development assets and increased Private Capital revenues.
On a GAAP basis we expect to report a net loss for 2012 ranging from $0.40 to $0.50 per share with a differential from core FFO driven predominantly by real estate depreciation and merger integration expenses.
In our earnings press release we outlined the business drivers that support our 2012 guidance which I will briefly review.
Same-store NOI is expected to be flat to up 1% reflecting increased occupancy net of rent rolled outs.
Given the lease roll that takes place at the beginning of each year and the seasonal nature of month-to-month leasing we expect occupancy to drop in the first quarter and then to trend higher and reach 92.5% to 93.5% by the end of 2012.
And while we expect to see net effective rent growth in select markets rent change on rollovers is expected to again be negative during the year given leases rolling down from prior cycle peaks.
However we believe we are nearing the end of this roll-down cycle.
On the expense side we expect net G&amp;A to be essentially flat to the annualized fourth quarter level and to total $200 million to $205 million for the year.
Now turning to capital deployment.
We anticipate starting $1.1 billion to $1.4 billion of new development with the vast majority targeted for the second half of the year.
Our overall share of total expected investment will be approximately 70%.
We expect building acquisitions of $400 million to $600 million of which we expect Prologis' share of the capital to be approximately 40%.
We expect contributions and dispositions in 2012 to total $4.5 billion to $5.5 billion.
Net of our co-investment in the fund activity we expect Prologis' share of the proceeds to be approximately 70%.
Our guidance assumes a substantial portion of the contributions are expected to come as a result of the formation of our Japan Funds but does not contemplate a recapitalization of PEPR in 2012.
In an effort to simplify our business which we have stated as a goal from the outset of the merger we also intend to rationalize a number of our funds in 2012.
To that end last week we bought out our partner's 63% interest in NA2 and now own 100% of the asset.
This purchase was in our plan for 2012 and is modestly accretive to FFO although temporarily dilutive to our debt metrics.
We intend to eliminate either through dispositions or through consolidations at least 3 other funds in 2012 in order to simplify our fund structures and reduce competing priorities.
In closing we are incredibly pleased with the results in 2011 and the significant progress we made in enhancing our financial position over the last 6 months.
We have delivered ahead of plan on our 2011 priorities and are solidly positioned to execute on our strategic goals for 2012.
At this point I will turn the call back to the operator to open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jeff Spector with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I'm here with Jamie.
We had a quick question.
We thought there was a timely article today in the Journal talking about the U.S.
market shining brighter manufacturers looking homeward.
Can you talk to us about that? And how does this impact your business? So let's say if manufacturers are bringing more business back to the United States how does that impact the warehouses that -- in your portfolio? It should help Chicago and the Midwest a little bit more.
And as you know we've had major holdings there.
And you've heard me talk about how Chicago used to be one of the good markets.
And was now in the last 3 or 4 years behaving like one of the bad markets.
And I think if there is more metal-bending and manufacturing of the low-tech nature it's probably auto-related in the Midwest so will benefit Chicago.
So I think we will be a beneficiary of it but probably not on the coast; more in the lower cost manufacturing areas like the Midwest.
Research Division</strong> Hamid this is Jamie.
So I mean I guess just to follow-up as you're talking to tenants are they thinking more of along those lines or is this just more in the press and in Super Bowl commercials? More of the latter than the former.
But it is a trend.
What's important about it is that -- let me back up.
People get this manufacturing thing wrong.
Manufacturing employment in the U.S.
has gone down.
But manufacturing actually has not gone in the U.S.
U.S.
is still a powerhouse manufacturer particularly because of the high productivity and the high-value goods that are being made.
So that's -- the trend in manufacturing employment has been down.
Now that decline has flattened basically and has tipped up a little bit.
So to that extent it's significant and sells headlines in newspapers.
But I think the long-term dynamics are such that the U.S.
will continue to be a big manufacturer but employment levels in manufacturing are not going to be substantially higher.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just going to the development guidance you have $1.1 billion and $1.4 billion.
Could you just talk a little bit about how much of that will be monetizing land currently in your inventory versus new land acquisitions? And then also maybe the mix of build-to-suit and spec and where you might have the confidence to be starting spec? This is Mike Curless.
Let me talk to you a little bit about first how we see the makeup of our development pipeline.
The guidance that Sully referenced we'd expect some 35% or so of that to take place in the Americas 40% in Asia and 25% in Europe.
And the makeup of that between spec and build-to-suit we suggest that some 35% of that would be build-to-suit with 55% spec keeping in mind that the more expensive spec buildings in Brazil China and Japan drive up that percentage.
We would suggest it’d be much more balanced from a transaction standpoint going forward.
In terms of specs opportunities we're seeing opportunities in primarily in our global markets.
That includes cities like Miami Los Angeles Washington DC Paris and Tokyo among others.
And we feel like we're very cautious about our spec development program.
For starters we focus our spec only in global markets where our global customers indicate that's where they want to be.
And then it's important to note within those global markets most of our spec developments takes place in our proven existing parks where we've got extensive track records with very high occupancies.
We know the local market inside and out have a lot of people on the ground in those markets.
And those feel like very appropriate places to build specs.
And relative to the land component of that we're going to put a fair amount of our land to work this year inside developments.
But also expect to see in line with what Mike was talking about relative to where there are good development opportunities undoubtedly we'll be looking to buy more land in Brazil and China in Japan et cetera.
So there will be land acquisition throughout the year.
But we certainly intend to put our land to work.
Yes.
I think our net land position is probably going to decline about $200 million per year until we get to the point that we're comfortable which is in the low billion dollar range but it will not be a straight line as Bill mentioned.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping we could talk a little bit about the North America fund to purchase.
Can you give us some idea of the overall price paid for that 63% interest and how it worked from a valuation perspective as well? Ross this is Bill.
Netting it out in our NAV schedules for ad infinitum that we put in our supplemental we've always included a pro forma in the NOI for virtually 100% ownership in NA2 as well as the corresponding debt associated with it.
So when we look at NAV and when we've guided you guys to look at NAV in the past we've sort of asked you to look at that as if we own 100%.
We had the opportunity where -- we restructured the NA2 fund about 2 years ago to the point where effectively we had the opportunity to buy the 63% interest for $1 which we did.
And we bought it for $1.
We paid off the Citi debt that was sitting on that a little over $300 million in doing that and we're bringing the whole portfolio onto our balance sheet.
And it just simplifies our fund structures puts a bunch of really good assets on our balance sheet.
And again it’s -- from an FFO standpoint it's modestly accretive.
From a debt metric standpoint it's modestly dilutive to the debt metrics.
But again we're on a mission to pay down debt.
And actually some of the interesting pieces as we look for good accretive debt to be able to pay down as we generate proceeds there are some secured debt inside NA2 that offers us the opportunity to pay it down this year.
And so there are some benefits associated with it.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I'm speaking with Sully as you think about -- so you gave this $400 million to $600 million of sort of growth acquisitions for the year and your share is obviously lower.
And you talk about some of these fund contributions or sort of the fund acquisitions of maybe 2 or 3 more where you would consolidate in.
I assume those are not the same sort of opportunities like NA2 where effectively you were consolidating already.
And it doesn't include it doesn't sound like the land potentially that you'd be buying so maybe you can talk a little bit about how you sort of see that capital being spent this year to take in those fund interests? How you intend to fund them and also sort of gross land purchases of that we should be thinking about as a use of capital in 2012? Well let me talk to some of these fund consolidations and what-not that we're talking about.
In essence we're really targeting 3 funds.
And I think we've chatted about this before.
We began the liquidation of the OSTRS fund back in the third quarter of last year and we'll continue that process into this year.
And the likelihood is that we'll either dispose of those assets and distribute the cash or we'll take the assets under our balance sheet in exchange in essence for our interest and maybe a little more cash but's a relatively small portfolio.
Same thing is true with the AFL-CIO.
So those are Funds 1 and Funds 11 in the schedule okay.
Those are relatively small funds.
The other fund that we're focused on is the PCAL the Prologis California fund where we have a 50% interest.
And in essence we're going to just split the assets and each of our partners take the assets on the balance sheet.
So from a cash out of pocket in terms of what we're talking it probably will be a cash generator not a cash utilizer in 2012.
And it just cleans up a host of the fund structures.
And so I hope that answers...
Yes.
The only other thing is that the land as I mentioned Michael is probably going to be a net contributor of a couple hundred million dollars call it $200 million of cash.
We'll buy some we'll sell some we'll transfer some into developments but net-net-net based on most scenarios we're looking at about $200 million reduction in our land bank.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with Macquarrie.
First as a quick follow-up is the calculation of 9% cap rate for your purchase of NA Fund II? And the second question turning to Europe what are your plans for taking your ownership rate in PEPR up from 93.7% to 95% to legal control and possibly start raising a new European fund to offload those assets? And I guess a third part that question is what's the appetite from investors for Private Capital in Europe? You want me to chat about NA2 first? Yes.
NA2 and then maybe Walt can talk about...
I'm not sure -- the cap rate you just threw out there but whatever it is it's substantially higher than what the value of that portfolio is.
The value of that portfolio is going to be – have a probably at most a 6% on it on the U.S.
portion and probably a 7% portion – 7% on the Mexico portion of it somewhere in that range.
But it ain’t going to – it’s not 9% so I don't know what the math is that you're doing.
I mean when you work through it in this lobby in the purchase accounting it flows into Q1.
But look in the supplemental you'll see NA2 with about a $2 billion gross book value -- that's gross book value on that original acquisition.
We bought out Citi's interests for $1.
And so the overall acquisition price of NA2 is closer to $1.6 billion with the reduction being borne by Citi on that not us.
It’s effectively breakeven to us from our original investment which is a hell of a deal considering that we did the fund July of 2007.
And so those values have come back pretty strongly over the last couple of years.
Yes and Ki Bin this is Walt.
As it relates to the second part of your question our goal is not necessarily to gain 95% legal control of PEPR.
I don't know if you saw it but yesterday PEPR put out a release and -- first of all let me just step back.
I think we've been saying for a long period of time now that PEPR is not in our view in the right structure as a public company with very little liquidity.
And so you'll see in that release that we made a proposal as a shareholder – as a unitholder which would be taken for a vote in March mid-March to change the management regulations to allow for a winding up of PEPR with a distribution of assets.
We call it a distribution in specie.
And so look at the end of this day we think that this proposal is good for all unitholders because number one it provides an equal benefit to everybody across the board.
And number two it provides liquidity to everyone all unitholders in a tax-efficient way.
And number three it provides -- and this is very important optionality to the unitholders who hold in excess of 1% of those shares to in essence take cash today or take properties in the event that they think that those properties will appreciate in the future.
And so we're obviously in favor of this proposal.
We tabled it and we plan on voting on it in mid-March or voting for it in mid-March.
Your next question comes from the line of Sloan Bohlen with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to get a little bit more color on the distributions plan for this year.
If you could maybe break it out geographically and then if we can maybe get a sense of what amount of NOI will be tied to which regions you’re distributing or contributing assets to? Well yes you said distributions.
I assume you mean contributions or dispositions in essence.
As we said look a sizable portion -- if you look at the $4.5 billion to $5.5 billion okay effectively 60% of that relates to Japan.
And that's going to be an incredibly low cap rate relative to the overall average.
And so think of the other 40% as fairly evenly spread between Europe and the U.S.
But the vast majority of it’s going to -- in our plan is targeted to the 2 Japan funds the development fund and the core fund.
Your next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to go into the same-store guidance a little bit flat to plus 1 for the year.
It would strike me that your occupancy has moved up pretty nicely throughout 2011 and you expect it to move up a bit in 2012.
Why shouldn't we see same-store maybe move up a little bit more than that? Is there something that's impacting that number? And can you give us a same-store number on a cash basis and compare that to the GAAP guidance that you've given? Well let me answer the cash side first.
I don't have those numbers with me on the cash side.
And we got asked that question about an hour ago through somebody's e-mail and we'll have to get back to you guys on the cash side of that.
We'll look at first quarter whether we can’t provide some deeper input to that.
And from the same-store standpoint guys look there's an opportunity.
The markets are recovering.
We're looking at our best guess as to what's going to happen in the overall markets.
We think that overall the portfolio is probably somewhere less than 5% over rented today.
In 2012 sort of 5 years after the 2007 2008 peak some of what we have rolling down this year will be at the top of some of the theoretical roll-downs.
But that's why we feel pretty confident going into 2013 that this thing is turned around pretty quickly.
And so 2012 should be sort of the end of the process where we see some sizable roll-downs in this portfolio.
And Brandon this is Walt.
Let me also say keep in mind that the same store results that we're talking about this year a lot of that is somewhat driven by what happened last year in terms of rent roll-downs right? So we've had in 2011 a roll-down order magnitude 6% 7% 8% I don't know what the average is.
But that's not flowing into next year's numbers.
So if you're turning 15% to 20% of your portfolio down if you will 7% or 8% by definition you need to have 2% occupancy growth just to be at 0.
And so looking forward into the future -- I mean we're telling you what we think it's going to be this year but hopefully this year's net roll-downs will be a lot less.
And that will have a measurable impact on next year's same-store NOI.
Having said all of that there is a big bet between different members of the management team as to when that will occur.
And you can guess which side of it I'm on.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Real quick on North American Fund II.
Could you just comment before my other question on whether or not those assets you brought on balance sheet are they expected to stay on balance sheet or are you just temporarily housing them for another fund? And then looking at occupancy trends sequentially what you categorized as other markets had a nice increase of call it about 200 basis points.
Could you talk about what's going on in there and what the markets are? Well 2 questions there.
And so let me try to address the first one relative to the NA2 assets.
The NA2 assets are again I don't know Walt 60% or 75% developed by...
Right.
They're great assets.
Fabulous assets.
And they’re great assets to bring on the balance sheet.
But they also happen to represent great assets that we might seed into some of the funds et cetera.
And so they represent a pool probably not unlike the SGP assets that were brought onto the balance sheet in 2011 and then put it into the USLF later in the year.
But no determination has been made in that regard specifically to those assets.
And then the second question...
Well why don’t I take this? It's Gene.
You're right about our regional markets are recovering.
And a couple of them which are noteworthy in our portfolio would be Cincinnati Columbus and Memphis.
And frankly those markets themselves are doing a little bit better but the real story there is the performance of our portfolio; we're in the high-90s mid- to high-90s in occupancy there.
And we outstrip the market occupancy by over 1 000 basis points.
And it's really a testament to the quality of these assets in our portfolio and the quality of the team.
There's other one thing I'd like to point out relative to sort of what changed in this quarter and the operating environment in the U.S.
And this is referenced in the initial remarks.
We've seen a 170 basis point pickup in occupancy towards [indiscernible].
I caution you these are volatile statistics quarter-to-quarter but I think we highlighted this trend a couple of quarters ago so we've seen it develop.
But now it's really come into its depth in a big way.
That's really important because that's where we have occupancy to pick up in our portfolio and we expect it.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is probably a question for Mike.
As you well know when the big retailers and looking at their distribution channels and the big logistics companies did all their modeling 5 6 7 8 years ago and they put in the employee cost right to work state fuel cost rent rates et cetera.
It was clearly a shift towards centralized big box which is what drove a lot of build-to-suit and spec development in the primary markets.
How has that -- how have those models changed and how do you see that working going forward in terms of the big users of bulk industrial space? This is Gene.
Let me start and then maybe Mike can fill it in with more big picture.
But I actually think what's really taking place if you go back 5 to 10 years a lot of the supply chain reconfiguration conventional knowledge was big buildings.
And many of these big buildings were developed in frankly x urban and in some cases locations where they are really not near population centers and were cleared around that 500-mile radius that one-day truck route.
So Memphis benefited.
Columbus Ohio benefited.
What we've seen recently and I think it's driven by a couple of things one being fuel prices is that big buildings are still in demand and we talk a lot about that on these calls.
But the location is clearly going back to population centers and depot locations.
So I think the big shift has been away from tertiary locations toward major markets and we see that continuing.
And obviously it's good for our portfolio but it's also very challenging to deliver big [indiscernible] in these big markets.
But we think we're pretty well positioned there.
Yes.
And I would just add it's very consistent with our long-term build-to-suits strategy as well John.
Being our primary focus on build-to-suits is predominantly in global markets and some select regional markets all of course with acceptable profit margins.
And I think we'll see more of that type of activity this year as we're hearing our customers’ sentiment approve more of a gravitation back to some of the larger markets as Gene mentioned.
And then you heard Hamid mention earlier that space utilization is its all-time high.
You combine that with better customer sentiment and the lack of big blocks of space available in existing buildings we're pretty bullish on our build-to-suit prospects for next year.
Not to pile on but I would just say there's a little bit different thing going on in Europe right now.
You're really seeing supply-chain reconfiguration completely.
So you're seeing companies moving from older to newer buildings.
And this has been happening for the last decade.
And really manufacturing has been shifting for the last 25 years from Western Europe to Central and Eastern Europe.
So you're really seeing companies today trying to conduct Pan-European distribution as opposed to local and regional distribution.
So you actually are seeing companies move to bigger boxes over time.
Not nearly as big as you'd see in the U.S.
A 500 000 square foot building in Europe would be a very very large building.
And there are just a handful of 1 million square foot buildings.
But slightly different dynamic in Europe than in the U.S.
Your next question comes from the line of John Stewart with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bill can you please identify for us where you expect to achieve -- where the additional synergies that you've identified are going to come from? And then can you also please discuss your ability to buy back unsecured.
I presume that you could issue today well inside of the coupons on what's outstanding so how are you going to go about -- what's the execution going to look like on buying those back? And then lastly Walt if you could please give us just a bit more color on the PEPR proposal.
Specifically do you need a majority or the minority to approve that proposal? And then if it is approved where do you go from there? I know you said that a recap is not contemplated in this year's guidance but what's to prevent you from distributing at that point and where do we go from there? This is Tom.
I'll take the increase in merger-synergy's question.
There were 5 items that drove the increase.
The first was greater headcount savings.
We identified lower IT costs and lower professional fees including the benefit from entity simplification.
We've identified more entities that we believe we can eliminate.
And we had greater savings related to bringing property management in certain markets inhouse.
And we also had some greater global line of credit amortization savings than we originally anticipated.
Relative to the debt question we look across our portfolio to see where we can buy the most accretive or where we can pay off the most accretive debt possible as we generate the proceeds.
Hence one of the reasons we did NA2 as an example was because there was a fair amount of debt that effectively was 100% ours.
And it gives us the opportunity.
There's more of that in the secured debt side.
Candidly the most accretive "debt" is in our preferreds right now.
And so we're going to look across the spectrum as we generate proceeds and look to see where we can use those proceeds to delever most accretively as we get it.
And we've said this a couple of times we -- given our disposition and contribution program we may have a high class problem that says we are sitting on some cash ahead of scheduled debt maturities.
But we're hoping to plan that pretty well.
And John as it relates to color on PEPR let me just answer your question by saying that this proposal that we've made requires a 67% vote to be approved.
Obviously we own 94% of PEPR.
Once the management regulations are changed basically any shareholder that owns in excess of 20% of the shares can table a vote to wind up the company.
And that could be a logical next step for us to consider obviously.
As it relates to long term the assets I think we've been pretty upfront to say that one of our key objectives is to mitigate the FX exposure that we have long term.
And so I'd say consistent with that objective I'd say longer term we’d likely seek to put our pro rata share of those assets into funds.
But let me be clear and make sure that everybody understands and Bill said this in his remarks that this is not in our plan or in our guidance as it relates to 2012.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Rodgers with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Hamid I think for a couple of years we've been talking more and more of the development running through funds.
And I think for 2012 you've got about 70% of the capital in the developments will be PLD.
Yet I think some of that is probably timing related to when you can start these funds but a couple of questions around that.
I guess one are there any funds contemplated this year that would be development funds as a part of that 70%? And maybe more broadly can you give us a sense as to whether your third-party capital providers continue to be interested in development funds? And will we see that 70% PLD contribution declining in years to come? Okay.
Great.
Dave first of all the 70% is a big improvement over 100% so we're actually pleased with that.
And we think that number is going to move right down to about just under 50% in the long term.
Yes we are doing all our developments in ventures today in Mexico in Brazil and in China.
And will be as you know adding a development fund in Japan along with an open end fund.
So more and more of our markets outside of the United States and Europe are moving into a development and in a venture format bringing down that percentage.
With respect to -- and investors are really interested in development.
And frankly when they look around for development partners and platforms without being too boastful I mean there aren't that many choices that would be more attractive to them than what we have to offer in terms of scale of platform quality of teams land assets et cetera et cetera.
So I think we're well positioned to serve the needs of the investors.
With respect to the U.S.
and Europe for the foreseeable future the developments will be on balance sheet.
But really think of those as replacing the significant number of assets that we're selling in terms of our exit markets and other markets and regional markets that we're selling.
We got to replace those assets and the land bank and the U.S.
developments on balance sheet and on Europe will serve that function.
So that's the plan long term.
Two 3 years from now we'll be under 50% in terms of development on balance sheet.
And by the way you didn't ask this question but I was going to say this in connection with the land question.
Land used to be a 4-letter word my judgment is that a year from now land will be one of the strongest aspects of this company particularly given the location of the land we have and the opportunities that will have to monetize it through development.
And because we're going from 100% development on balance sheet model to 50% roughly across the board and we're reducing our land bank by a couple of hundred million dollars net-net-net development and land actually will be sources of capital not uses of capital.
That's a pretty important switch that I'm not sure everybody's figured out yet.
Your next question comes from line of George Auerbach with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Guys last summer you embarked on a project to build out solar panels on a number of U.S.
rooftops which at the time you estimated could add upwards of $20 million per year of NOI and $100 million of development fees over a period of 4 or 5 years.
I guess 2 questions.
First are we in the buildout? i.e.
how much of the NOI from the program is in the run rate today? And second how much incremental NOI and fees should we expect this year from the solar program? This is Mike Curless.
Just to circle back on the solar frame [ph].
First as most of you are aware we have closed the deal the OE loan program a few months ago.
In a short few months we're off to a good start with respect to those in pursuit by our dedicated solar team.
It is a long lead-time sales item.
And we expect to see results on that in 2013.
But keep in mind it's a relatively long sales cycle.
As you are aware last summer there's $2.6 billion potential capacity.
And that can create some significant value potential based on development fees roof panel and return on equity and even replacements of some roofs.
But as we look at it over the long haul even if we're able to capture a portion of that value.
This is going to be very meaningful against what we think is relatively low overhead.
We already have the people in place plenty of rooftops and so we're optimistic that even a significant or small portion of that overall value creation will be very accretive to us over the long haul.
Again it's a long sales cycle and we look forward to see results coming our way in 2013.
But the short answer I think to your question is that it's pretty back-end loaded.
Because it takes a while to a make the deals and two to put up these rooftop units and start generating fees and revenues on it.
So don't expect the number the $20 million to come in sort of a quarter for each year in the next 4 years.
So it'll be mostly back-end loaded.
Yes.
The guidance for 2012 the add from that program is de minimis for 2012.
But we're also optimistic that even with the long lead-time cycle these guys could get a move on and get something to started in late 2012.
And I should remind you we already generated a significant amount of revenue from rooftop solar outside of this program because of activity earlier on.
I believe that number is like $8 million per year but don't hold me...
I mean we -- don't hold you to that.
But we've done well over 60 megs megawatts of solar installations so far.
And this program if it was fully built out will be something on the order of 250 to 275 megawatts.
So there's a lot to come but we've already done some.
Be patient.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just had a follow-up just in terms of -- just looking at the occupancy increase in Page 28 of the supplemental you sort of break down the portfolio between the assets that are generating NOI and those that are generating a net operating loss.
And it would appear sequentially that those generating a net operating loss the square footage went down by 9 million.
But the ones generating NOI also went down 2 million as you sort of sold or contributed assets out of the consolidated portfolio.
Assuming you talked about the 7% cap rate I assume you sold more fully leased assets.
So is it fair to assume that most of the leased up that you got in the quarter was from taking these really low-leased assets and moving them up? And just talk about maybe what else is happening here between these 2 buckets.
Well let me try to touch on that in a couple of big pictures.
First of all if you take out all the noise in Q4 what we disposed of what did we acquire what did we take out of the operating portfolio and put into held-for-sale et cetera.
What ended the year at 92.2% occupancy would have been 92.9%.
And Your occupancy actually would have improved relative to eliminating the noise.
And so we had pretty robust results in Q4 from a leasing perspective.
And somewhat intuitive to sort of look and say "Hey guys we leased a boatload of space that was empty." So Michael the easiest trend that you can sort of grab onto is what Gene talked about.
We were pretty fully leased on large buildings.
We were only 88% leased on smaller buildings.
And the small- and medium-sized businesses coming back are driving the occupancy in the near term.
Because frankly on the super big buildings we don't have a lot of product to lease.
I mean we're pretty full.
So it's really the story this quarter is sort of the first and second inning of the small- and medium-sized businesses coming back.
And I think that's a huge deal for the recovery of this business.
And there are higher rent per square foot and a smaller spaces and the NOI drags on higher.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Quick question is the management transition that's planned for the end of this year still happening as originally contemplated one year ago when the merger was announced? Yes.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
Just a quick follow-up.
How would you describe the institutional demand for European industrial properties? And if you could quantify how much money do you think you could raise from third-party investors out there? Yes.
Ki Bin this is Guy.
We are seeing -- well first of all we had a great year last year in raising institutional capital.
It was a record year.
We've seen that momentum carry on to this year.
Europe I mean Europe -- the Japan raise we're doing and even our U.S.
funds we're seeing continued interest.
There are a couple of trends going on.
One is that a lot of these investors are still under-invested in industrial and they're seeing the same change and improvement in the fundamentals that we're talking about here today.
So that interest is increasing.
Secondly there's a trend towards having fewer relationships with managers and so they want the larger managers who they can have multiple investments with and we can have ventures or funds offered to them in a multiple geographies.
And thirdly I think there's a move towards great appreciation of the owner-operator model where they can invest with a manager who especially in this part of the cycle can add value at a real estate level rather than just financial engineering.
So those 3 things are going our way.
Relative to Europe specifically we have not seen drop-off in capital looking at Europe.
Obviously there's a lot of headlines but we're still seeing considerable interest.
And even of note in the last quarter or so we've seen an interest from Japanese institutional investors looking at Europe which is something new.
I don't know whether it's just yen euro or what but that's something I think about sitting here 6 months ago I wouldn't have said we're seeing a lot of.
Your next question comes from the line of John Stewart with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick clarification.
On call it $5 billion of distributions and contributions this year I know you said that your share is expected to be 70% but what would the net proceeds be? Distributions? You mean contributions on sales right? Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's what I said yes.
Yes no no no the net proceeds stats are 70%.
Net gross proceeds but you’ve got to take debt out of that.
Yes.
But I mean it's gross proceeds we're going to use to pay off debt.
Japan is an example.
Just to sort of work through it there's debt in Japan okay.
But the best way to look at it is on gross assets are share okay? Right.
And deal with the debt separately.
Think of the debt forget about secured debt think of debt as being on the portfolio.
That's the easiest way of thinking about it.
Yes 70% of $5 billion is $3.5 billion; you got the math.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I actually got a follow-up in my question that I just asked.
Do you know specifically like out of those properties that are generating that operating loss 9 million square feet came out.
How much of that popped into those generating income versus how much of that is either been sold or targeted to be sold? And then just as a second follow-up.
In terms of the leasing activity that you did in the quarter is 80% retention so that – there was a lot of leasing of existing expirees but the CapEx at least per foot seemed to be higher than it has been.
And so I was trying to understand the dynamics and I don't know if that's just maybe because it's more expensive space or it’s smaller space.
I just didn't know what was going on to sort of dive that with the high retention.
Michael let me take your second question first and then we'll get back to the first one.
Our turnover -- the high retention ratio is not a reflection of what percentage of the leases we did in the quarter were renewals versus new leases.
In fact the ratio went the other way.
So we had more new leases this quarter than we did in the last quarter.
The other thing I’d just point out on turnover cost is that we had an increase in the length of term of the leases we signed this quarter.
And if you look at the number in terms of a cost per square foot per term of lease the cost actually went down a little bit.
But over the -- sort of if you look at the trailing-4 quarter we're pretty flat on turnover cost.
And I don't think it's adjusted relative to the retention rate as Hamid have mentioned.
So let me try to answer your other question.
We don't have the exact math you want but we can get it to you okay.
But here's the conceptual top down way of getting to the answer I think you're looking for.
We already told you that the assets that we sold were more leased than the assets in the balance in the portfolio.
Had we not sold them our occupancy as Bill said would have been at 92.9% instead of 92.2%.
So by definition there's not a lot of sale of empty assets going on in aggregate okay.
I'm sure there are a couple of individual user sales and the like that we had in our sales.
But on aggregate it's not selling vacancy is what's going on.
It's really the lease-up of the smaller buildings trending up and getting into the other bucket of stabilized or operating properties.
On Gene's question even if you put the term aside we've been -- our TIs and commissions are $1.40 -- $1.35 to $1.40-ish per foot for as long we can track it.
And given the longer-term results and bigger commissions put the TIs aside.
Just simply the fact that you're signing longer leases you have to pay more commission to your brokers and the improvements in smaller buildings is of higher value a couple of pennies increases in TI cost should not surprise anyone.
Your next question comes from the line of with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Jamie Feldman again.
Two questions.
One is you had commented that you're seeing more demand from small- and mid-sized businesses.
Can you provide a little more color in terms of where you're seeing that what kind of businesses and kind of what that means for the recovery or the pace of a recovery here? And then secondly we are expecting a drop-off January 1 based on short-term leases rolling over.
Can you talk a little bit about what you expect in the warehouse markets in general kind of in your portfolio but also just across the industry? Sure.
So to your second Jamie and this is Gene.
We will see a drop-off like we always do at the beginning of the year.
So that's in the course that's baked into our forecast.
As we look out into the year our strong markets that we've talked about has been places like Los Angeles places actually like Dallas South Florida New Jersey.
There is no sign of that changing so we continue to see strength there.
I'm hopeful for markets like Atlanta markets like Phoenix who were significantly impacted by the housing downturn the turnover we're seeing some signs of that.
Obviously they're struggling to return.
And getting back to your...
Research Division</strong> Any particular industry business? Yes.
The small tenant space.
Jamie these spaces have been under so much pressure since the downturn meaning in some cases for very small tenant and frankly we do not have a lot of very small tenants businesses were -- they went back to the garage.
So we saw huge huge fall off.
So what we're seeing with small customers is I think it's kind of pent-up demand because all the small business isn't dead in this country; they're just very very careful on expansion.
And we're finally -- and this is across the board.
A big segment of that population tends to be housing-related.
And as you can imagine we're really not seeing that yet.
But other than that it's really across the board.
And what we're seeing is simply pent-up demand finally finally getting unleashed a little bit.
And some of these companies have probably had expansion needs for a couple of years and have just held the line.
And Jamie we bifurcate the portfolios in Europe and Asia.
It's really more important in Europe the same way that we have it in U.S.
large medium and small spaces.
The smaller buildings overall and therefore smaller spaces but you've got the exact same phenomenon.
Higher occupancies in the highest or the largest spaces and lower occupancies in the smaller spaces.
In this quarter for the first time Q4 -- between Q3 and Q4 showed market improvement also in the small spaces in Europe.
So we're seeing exactly the same phenomena that Gene was talking about in the U.S.
and Europe.
Okay.
Let me just transition to some concluding remarks with that commentary.
It just reminded me that a couple weeks ago I had a meeting with the CFO of a major bank a top 4 bank in the country.
And he has just come off his earnings call and he just told me that the most dramatic thing that he had seen in his portfolio was that the lines of credit for small- and medium-sized businesses that were outstanding were finally being utilized.
And people were -- and were spending that capital had the confidence to spend that capital small- and medium-sized businesses to buy inventory and invest in facilities and the like.
So I think there if you guys who look for it there are a lot of signs for that very important part of the market coming back.
And I think the employment numbers and the like give you another window into that phenomena which I think is important.
But let me thank you for all your questions and I'd like to reiterate that we had a terrific second half and we expect the momentum to continue into 2012.
I think the most important takeaways from today’s call are the following: first the integration has gone extremely well and our teams are hitting on all cylinders.
Second the markets including Europe are doing a lot better than most people think.
And third we are across-the-board ahead of plan and very focused on our strategic priorities.
Thank you for joining us today.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Melissa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Prologis First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Tracy Ward Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Melissa.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our first quarter 2012 conference call.
The supplemental document is available on our website at prologis.com under Investor Relations.
This morning we'll hear from Hamid Moghadam co-CEO and Chairman who will provide an update relative to the company's priorities and will share the company's view of the operating environment.
He will then turn it over to Bill Sullivan CFO to cover results and guidance.
Additionally we are joined by members of our executive team including Walt Rakowich Gary Anderson Mike Curless Nancy Hemenway Guy Jaquier Ed Nekritz Tom Olinger and Gene Reilly.
Before we begin the prepared remarks I'd like to quickly state that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements under Federal Securities laws.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates and projections about the market and the industry in which Prologis operates as well as management's beliefs and assumptions.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and actual operating results may be affected by a variety of factors.
For a list of those factors please refer to forward-looking statement notice in our 10-K or on SEC filings.
I'd also like to state that the first quarter results press release and our supplemental do contain financial measures such as FFO and EBITDA that are non-GAAP measures.
And in accordance with Reg G we've provided a reconciliation to those measures.
[Operator Instructions] Hamid will you please begin? Thanks Tracy and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our first quarter 2012 earnings call.
This morning I'll provide an update on our key priorities and share our views of the operating environment.
Our results exceeded our expectations.
It's shaping up to be a very good year for us with strong momentum across all of our business lines and solid execution on our 4 key priorities.
We've made excellent progress on strengthening our financial position as well as aligning our portfolio with our investment strategy.
We are now 3 calendar quarters into our 10-quarter post-merger strategic plan and we generated $1.4 billion from our net disposition contribution and deployment activities.
This amount is about $650 million or 45% ahead of our 10-quarter plan to date.
As a result of this realignment activity we've been able to increase our share of assets in global markets from 79% to 84% and reduced our assets in other or exit markets from 8% to 6%.
These trends will continue as we execute the balance of our 10-quarter plan.
We've been somewhat below plan in capital deployment but we expect development volume to pick up in the coming quarters due to lack of supply of Class A facilities which I'll address in a moment.
Interestingly we're once again seeing opportunities to utilize our platform for value-added conversions.
During the quarter we completed one such transaction in Silicon Valley generating an economic gain of more than $23 million or 38% higher than the value of the property as an industrial asset.
Turning to Private Capital I'd like use this opportunity to give you an update on our Japan operations as well as our Private Capital initiatives there.
I spent last week in Japan and my time with the team further reinforced my assessment of the quality and scale of opportunities that we have before us in that market.
We're having great success leasing our development projects in Japan often prior to the completion of construction.
You recently saw our press release on a million-square-foot development project in Tokyo that was fully leased before we broke ground.
We expect to have more news of this nature to share with you in the coming weeks and months.
At the same time vacancies for modern [ph] logistic facilities in Tokyo and Osaka have fallen below 5% and rents are moving up.
Our operating assets in Japan represent the highest quality product in the market and actually within our entire portfolio.
With cash yields in the mid-5% range and long-term financing costs under 2% Japan offers the highest cash spreads among all of our global markets and local investors appear eager to allocate capital to real estate in this yield starved environment.
We've seen strong Japanese fund flows into the U.S.
REITs as well as J-REITs the latter causing a narrowing of the gap between J-REIT share prices and their underlying NAVs.
As a result we are reassessing our fund-formation strategy for Japan.
We're now upsizing our development fund to be formed later this year.
We're receiving strong interest from our large global investors and are substantially oversubscribed in this fund.
At the same time we're taking another look at that J-REIT market as an alternative to the private open-end fund as the future vehicle for long-term ownership of operating assets in Japan.
While we've not yet chosen this as our preferred structure we think it is only prudent to see if the J-REIT market offers a better alternative for our company.
It will take some time for us to explore this alternative fully.
In the meantime the capital markets are now offering us the opportunity to mitigate our yen FX exposure by swapping some of our existing U.S.
debt into yen-denominated obligations.
This strategy has the added advantage of reducing the associated interest cost by more than 150 basis points a year.
This review process will surely delay the formation of our Japan ownership vehicle but we're confident that we'll meet our 10-quarter deleveraging plan by executing on a number of other initiatives in Europe and Americas.
Turning now to our fourth priority we make great progress on improving the utilization of our assets.
Our leasing teams continue to deliver excellent results across the board.
Leasing activity was stronger than expected a very positive sign in the first quarter which is usually a soft leasing quarter.
And notably rent change on rollover was strongest it's been for many years.
For the first time in 4 years market rents have surpassed our in-place rents.
While there will be some volatility in this metric over the next couple of quarters this improvement occurred earlier than our earlier forecast.
We expect the going-forward trend to be similarly positive.
Additionally our land bank decreased by about $50 million driven by the monetization of land into new development projects.
Let me now offer a few observations on the economic trends we monitor most closely.
Global trade volumes remained well above peak and the current IMS forecast indicates additional growth in global trade of 4% this year and 5.6% next year.
Relative to consumption retail sales remained strong and container volumes are also above peak levels.
This is prevalent throughout the Americas and Asia with Brazil and China taking the lead.
Inventories remained a key demand driver for industrial real estate in the U.S.
During the quarter real inventories grew in excess of our internal forecast at a 4% annualized rate causing the real inventory-to-sales ratio to move slightly off its record low.
The growth in consumption and rebuilding of inventories is translating into further improvements in the operating environment.
Net absorption in the U.S.
was positive for the seventh consecutive quarter at 25 million square feet.
We continue to forecast absorption at a healthy 160 million square feet for 2012 up 1/3 from last year.
This improvement in absorption combined with continued record low new construction volumes is driving the increases in rental rate in many of the global markets where Class A is scarce.
While some European markets continue to lag the U.S.
our teams continue to deliver strong results as occupancy increased by 50 basis points from the fourth quarter.
Bear in mind that the vast majority of our European portfolio is located in the U.K.
and Northern Europe France and Poland which continue to perform well on a relative basis.
Our customers particularly in the U.S.
are increasingly optimistic.
To sum up we're making great progress on our priorities.
Our markets in the Americas China and especially Japan will provide strong growth prospects for us over the next 18 to 24 months.
While there are macroeconomic headwinds in Europe our team there has done an outstanding job of leasing space at good rates in an uncertain economic environment.
Before handing the call over to Bill I'd like to say a few words about his substantial contributions to Prologis over the last 5 years.
As you know Sully is retiring from the company and this will be his last call with us.
Sully has been the key leader on Prologis' executive team and a fixture on these calls since April 2007.
The world has changed dramatically over this period and Prologis has come a long way since as a company.
One important constant throughout this period has been Sully's unwavering commitment to our shareholders and we owe many thanks for his tireless efforts on behalf of the company.
Walt and I truly believe that Prologis would not be where it is today had it not been for Bill Sullivan's incredible leadership and dedication to our company.
Sully's leadership business acumen integrity and laser-like focus on always getting it right have proved invaluable to Walt and me the executive team and to the company.
Bill's decision to retire earlier than the original plan is a testament to how quickly the 2 companies have come together.
He's ready to move forward knowing that his work at Prologis is complete his efforts are appreciated and his legacy of excellence is admired by all his colleagues in and out of the company.
We all wish him the very best for the future and we'll certainly miss his camaraderie and wonderful sense of humor.
With that let me turn the call over to Bill.
Thanks for those kind words Hamid.
I'm not worthy.
This morning I plan to cover 3 aspects of the company's financial position and strategy: First the summary of our Q1 results; second an overview of our capital markets activity; and third an update on our guidance for the year.
Let's start with our Q1 results.
For the first quarter 2012 we generated core FFO of $0.40 per share which modestly exceeded our internal forecast.
The outperformance was principally due to higher-than-expected net operating income across our portfolio.
Typically you see a material decline in occupancy in the first quarter of the year.
The slight increase experienced this quarter combined with a slight roll down in same-store rents contributed to higher-than-expected rental income.
Additionally the mild winter minimized seasonal operating expenses although we also had a corresponding decline in reimbursable revenue and therefore the drop in operating cost has a minimal impact on NOI.
Offsetting the operating performance was a quarter-over-quarter increase of approximately $9 million in net G&amp;A.
Only $3 million of which is recurring.
Slightly over $4 million of this increase is seasonal to the quarter approximately $3 million related to new compensation programs and approximately $2 million related to mark-to-market adjustments on existing compensation plans given the increase in our stock price over the quarter.
Diving deeper into the operating portfolio.
All regions contributed to the strong leasing volume and in total we leased about 31 million square feet during the quarter.
In spite of the economic headwinds Europe generated another solid quarter of leasing posting a 50 basis point increase in occupancy from the fourth quarter.
Rent change on rollover decreased a modest 1.1% the lowest rent rolled down we have seen in over 3 years.
The solid occupancy gains year-over-year combined with the modest rent roll-downs culminated in an increase in same-store NOI of 1.7%.
Turning to dispositions and contributions.
During the quarter we completed $994 million in land and building dispositions and contributions.
Our share of the proceeds was $762 million.
The building dispo's and contro's were priced at a weighted average stabilized cap rate of 7.2% which was modestly better than our expectations demonstrating that demand remained strong for high-quality industrial real estate even in secondary markets.
$13.5 million of these proceeds were from land dispositions and we also monetized about $50 million in land that was put to work in new developments.
On the capital deployment front.
During the first quarter we committed approximately $322 million of capital of which approximately $244 million was Prologis' share.
Total deployment included $211 million of development starts $71 million of building acquisitions and $40 million of land acquisitions and infrastructure spend.
From a fund rationalization perspective we had a very productive quarter.
We bought out our partner's 63% interest in NA2 and now own 100% of this $1.6 billion portfolio.
As we talked about on our fourth quarter call this purchase is modestly accretive to FFO but dilutive relative to our debt metrics.
We concluded and dissolved P Cal [Prologis California] fund dividing the portfolio equally with our partner bringing our 50% share of the fund's $1 billion of real estate directly onto the balance sheet.
And we disposed the 11 of the 12 assets held in Fund 11 and expect to wind up this fund later this year.
During the quarter we also raised $128 million of third-party equity for Prologis' targeted U.S.
Logistics Fund.
Turning now to capital markets.
During the quarter we completed more than $1.3 billion of debt financings and refinancings with approximately $1 billion related to the REIT and $296 million on behalf of our property funds.
Notable transactions for the REIT include a $642 million multicurrency senior term loan and an all-in drawn margin of 150 basis points over LIBOR that is extendable at our option through 2017 and $372 million in TMK bond financings with a weighted average term of 5 years and a weighted average rate of 1.05%.
Both of these financings were beneficial from a natural currency hedging perspective.
Importantly we have paid down $1.4 billion of debt on a look-through basis since the second quarter of 2011.
We remain highly focused on delevering the balance sheet enhancing our unencumbered asset pool and expect to make significant progress on improving our leverage and debt metrics over the course of 2012 and '13.
Notably already in Q2 we have paid off $449 million of our 2.25% convertible notes and repaid $59 million of senior unsecured notes at maturity.
Now I'm turning to guidance for 2012.
We are maintaining our full year core FFO forecast of $1.60 to $1.70 per share.
As a reminder our core FFO excludes any gains or losses from real estate transactions as well as any impairment charges and merger integration cost.
From an operating perspective we are modestly increasing same-store NOI guidance for the year to 1% to 2% positive based on the strength of the first quarter occupancy and better-than-expected rent roll-downs.
We continue to expect occupancy to trend higher reaching 92.5% to 93.5% by the end of 2012.
And while we still expect to see net effective rent growth in select markets rent change on rollovers is expected to be more negative in Q1 given leases rolling down from prior cycle peaks.
However we continue to believe we are nearing the end of this roll-down cycle.
On the expense side we now expect net G&amp;A to total $208 million to $213 million for the year given the marked-to-market on the comp plans we saw in Q1 as well as expected increases to professional fees associated with fund activities and systems implementation.
On the capital deployment front we are maintaining our full year forecast of $1.5 billion to $2 billion about 60% of which will be our overall share of total expected investment.
The vast majority is targeted for the second half of the year and includes $1.1 billion to $1.4 billion of development starts primarily outside the U.S.
and $400 million to $600 million of acquisitions mostly in funds in the Americas and Europe.
Finally we continue to expect contributions and dispositions in 2012 to total $4.5 billion to $5.5 billion with a potentially larger emphasis on dispo's and contro's in the Americas and less in Japan.
Net of our co-investment in the fund activity we expect Prologis' share of the proceeds to be approximately 75%.
Before closing I will provide you with a quick update on our systems integration.
Consistent with our plan we completed the first of 3 milestones and are well on our way to creating a world-class information management platform.
The new Yardi 7.0 system implemented effective April 1 harmonizes our operating data and allows for the entire company to be on one instance of Yardi.
It eliminates manual reconciliation.
And our access to global operating property info on a realtime basis is fabulous.
Finally our field teams are ecstatic with the usability of the new system.
This is a real home run.
In closing we feel great about where we are and where we're going.
With the heavy lifting associated with the merger and the first major step of the systems integration behind us I feel it is an appropriate time for me to step aside and to focus on the next phase of my career aspirations.
I have thoroughly enjoyed my time here working with the analyst community and working for our investors.
Most importantly working with the incredibly talented group of professionals at Prologis has been a highlight of my career.
I'll leave soon confident that Tom will do a fabulous job as the new CFO and I wish Tom and the company all the best going forward.
At this point I will turn the call back to the operator to open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's Ross Nussbaum.
A question on Japan.
Can you walk through maybe the pros and cons of what you see behind pursuing a J-REIT versus an open-end fund? And does the timing and decision to do that depend on what GLP does and how the market reacts to their potential offering? The answer to the latter part is no because we don't really plan our own strategies around other people's timing which we don't control.
The answer to the first part is that we don't know just yet.
We are actually pursuing both avenues right now and we were basically exclusively following the open-end fund format up until I would say a couple of weeks ago.
But given the substantial interest and the narrowing spreads to NAV the J-REITs are becoming just much more compelling and of course the decision is not just an instantaneous decision because those factors change.
But if in fact the J-REIT market proves to be deeper than it's been and we think there is a real need for a substantial company in this sector to be active in it it may prove to be the better alternative.
So I guess the most straightforward answer I can give you is that we're studying the 2 alternatives very carefully next to each other and we'll make a decision in good time.
It is a pretty significant and permanent decision because it has long-term implications and we need to be thoughtful about making it.
In the meantime the real capital need of the company is in the development area because it's really going gangbusters.
And so that one we're going to go ahead and just get that one done because the opportunities there are really proving to be larger and more profitable than we thought because of the rent cycle.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Spector from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I'm here with Jamie Feldman.
I guess Hamid if we could just focus a little bit on the ISM report today definitely better results than what our economists were expecting.
But they continue to call for or warn about the pending fiscal cliff in January.
Can you just tie together I guess what you're thinking these days when you saw these results and the conversations you're having with your customer? Okay.
Let me answer that question and maybe even a broader question which is that you guys know that we exceeded our expectations in the first quarter and we weren't stepping on the scale in any way.
I mean it clearly the first quarter is always a slower quarter.
A lot of the month-to-month leases go away and in the last 3 years the first quarter has been pretty soft.
That didn't happen this quarter that's why we beat by a couple of cents our own internal estimates.
But we had healthy debate internally about guidance and whether we should move guidance up or keep it where it is.
And we decided to keep it where it is not because for the lack of confidence in our business.
In fact it looks terrific right now.
But we've seen this movie before.
In fact we've seen the movie and the sequel and now we're looking at the third one.
In '10 and '11 the market went soft on us in May June.
And we do have the fiscal cliff at the end of the year.
I personally have no confidence in our politicians to get it right and it could happen again.
So I'm not the best guy to address the fiscal cliff issue but I'm just telling you that all signals today from our business and our customers are fabulous okay? Better than expectations.
Even in Europe better than expectations.
By the way I wouldn't add fabulous to Europe I would just say better than our expectations and good but fabulous everywhere else.
But who knows? I mean this could go soft on us again and you guys are better positioned and your economist is in probably better position to answer the question than we are around this table.
But from our perspective things look really good.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> On the value-added conversions you mentioned the one that you monetized in the last quarter.
I mean that was a big initiative several years back and now clearly at least in the Bay Areas there's a healthy bid for land and development of other property types.
I mean is this something that we could see pick up over the course of the year or are you actively trying to harvest more sites right now? Paul this is Gene let me take that.
And Hamid might have some comments.
But these things will tend to be episodic.
We are pursuing a number of smaller value-added transactions.
Some are value-added acquisitions.
In Phoenix we have a couple of those that we've had vacant had leased up.
You'll see us sell those in the upcoming quarters.
In terms of value-added conversion activity we think we're moving into a market cycle where that activity will pick up dramatically.
This is an opportunistic transaction we've talked about.
Don't expect to see one of these every quarter.
But we're certainly moving into a part of the cycle where these are beginning to make a lot more sense again.
And the only thing I would add is when we rolled out the strategy actually in '07 which now seems like ancient history we actually said that going to be about $30 million a year and guess what? It's been about $30 million a year.
I think in the combined company it's going to go up.
And I do think Silicon Valley is on fire.
These opportunities really come up in only a couple of markets.
They don't happen in the less infield markets but certainly happen in Southern California in Silicon Valley and places like that.
And based on what I'm seeing in Silicon Valley that a lot of it is going to happen right there in the Bay Area given all the activity that's going on I mean social media and the other sectors.
So yes I think we're entering the sweet spot of the cycle.
But I just want to remind everybody we actually have delivered at about what we said we would back in '07 and we certainly didn't anticipate the great whatever you want to call it '08 to '10.
Your next question comes from line of Steve Sakwa with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Hamid and Bill I just want to make sure I understand kind of the math as it relates to the deleveraging and the contributions in sales as your kind of roll out for the balance of the year.
So if I heard you correctly $4.5 billion to $5.5 billion of contributions of which your share is 75%.
Can you just help us think about sort of how that progresses throughout the year? And then secondly what I guess would be outright asset sales on top of that or is that number embedded inside of that number? Steve the building and land asset sales are embedded inside the number and so total for the year and what we're targeting is the $4.5 billion to $5.5 billion and we've done $1 billion so far this year.
And our share of that first $1 billion was a little over 75%.
And so as we look to the rest of the year we're clearly focused on getting the Japan development fund done which will add a couple hundred million dollars to that number.
In Europe we have sizable contributions targeted for the second half of the year and we've got 3 active funds there that are acquiring right now in PEP II Patel [ph] and our Allianz fund.
And then in the U.S.
Mexico and Brazil we have a healthy pipeline of dispositions of assets and contributions particularly in Mexico.
And then it is likely that we will do one decent-sized fund on the order of $400 million to $500 million in the Americas between now and the end of the year.
And so when you sort of add it all up it's probably -- of the $4 billion that's left at the midpoint of that guidance you could probably see something on the order of $2 billion coming out of Europe a couple hundred million out of Asia and then the remainder out of the Americas.
Yes and the only thing I would add to Bill's commentary is that we're really focused on this 10-quarter plan and as you remember we didn't actually really provide the detailed quarter-by-quarter numbers of that because frankly when you do then people get locked into that and we are not that precise in terms of timing things.
And we're certainly not going to do anything stupid to meet an arbitrary timetables.
So really what we're trying to do is get to a certain balance sheet by 2013.
And as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we're actually way ahead in terms of the start we've gotten.
We're also spending money by the way a little bit less not as fast as we thought.
Now I think some of that will catch up on the build-to-suits that we're doing but net-net-net we continue to be committed to the balance sheet parameters that we talked about and I think we're very much on track for getting it done by 2013.
Your next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> It's Craig Mailman here with Jordan.
Maybe could you just give more color on your comments regarding market rents versus the in-place rents to the portfolio.
In what market are you guys seeing the biggest spreads between the 2? It's Gene.
Let me just take that and I'll probably kick it to Gary for some color.
But I mean if you look at across our portfolio as Hamid mentioned we think we've passed the really key threshold.
We're in positive territory.
And if you break it down a little bit in the Americas markets we're kind of right on top of that number.
And frankly one of the markets that we are -- we have sort of the highest rents as compared to market happens to be Los Angeles.
And that also happens to be the by far the fastest rent growing market in the U.S.
So that will turn on pretty quickly and obviously it really has turned on a lot in the last 6 months.
So that tends to move the needle a lot.
In the Americas in Brazil we don't have this huge portfolio but we're actually way below market rents because they're accelerating quickly.
Mexico I'd say we're probably right on top of it.
I'll kick it to Gary for...
And in Europe I think again we're right on top of the marked-to-market right at our portfolio rent level.
Like Gene said in the Americas for us it's really the global markets that are driving rent change over time markets like Hamburg and Paris like we've talked about in the past.
In Asia Japan is under rented today so we're seeing rental increases in Asia but the marked-to-market is certainly under 100%.
And in China it's well under 100%.
So we're seeing pretty significant rent growth in those markets.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim from Macquarie.
If I could squeeze in 2 quick questions.
One if you pursued a J-REIT strategy would that be externally managed by PLD or internally managed? And second question given the positive momentum we've had for several consecutive quarters in the industrial sector and given that you have a $3 billion land bank that has been written down by $1 billion most of it during the depth of the recession I'm not sure how to ask this question but how would you view your land bank and if you could mark it to market based on the strong operating fundamentals you've seen how would that look like and how would you describe your land bank today? You answer the first I'll answer...
Let me -- just from a J-REIT market Ki the J-REITs by definition are externally advised and so there's a separate management company that if we pursued the J-REIT concept we would intend to control and own that management company.
But by definition in Japan the J-REITs have to be externally advised.
And to the question on land bank I think it's an excellent question.
And one that we think about a lot.
If you want to answer that question by looking at actually land comps that are trading you'll have a very limited answer because there aren't that many comps in terms of land trading in the U.S.
or frankly anywhere else.
Japan there's a fair amount because there's active development but other than that there's not a lot of data points out there.
But if you plug in sort of some of the rents that we're achieving in the better performing markets like L.A.
and Miami and DC and places like that Houston and you crank through construction cost and you back into a land residuals certainly we're at a place where the impaired values of land are way below what those land residuals are.
Now nobody has started buying land on that basis yet but I think they will.
And I think probably the best answer to your question is a general one which I think land is going to go -- it's what I said a couple of quarters ago I think land is going to go from being something that everybody struggles with and there's a race between much you can haircut existing book value to one that's going to be a source of tremendous growth an opportunity for our company and our customers going forward.
So I think people's attitudes about land are going to change substantially.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Hamid I just want to come back to this exploration of J-REIT and effectively using a public company over there.
As you think about the struggles that Prologis had with PEPR and you think about some of the other externally advised structures that were in Australia Japan and other places.
I mean why go down the road of having a listed entity versus what is your strong suit in terms of open-end funds and your fund investors in the Private Capital business where you have this long history with and just sort of go down the road they're willing to pay the values that you want today to start the fund and you can accelerate your deleveraging goals and sort of get to this balance sheet that you want quicker rather than delay it potentially to the end of the year because just as you said who knows what could happen with fiscal things and you sort of have the bird in the hand right now.
Why not just grab it with all the complexities and issues that may go around of having a public entity? Okay.
The question is the bird in the hand versus the one that's an unknown and the answer is that the open-end fund is also not without its risks.
For one thing the open-end fund is going to be the first of its kind in Japan.
And our timing on that we've pushed back prior to this decision to look at the J-REIT alternative to the third quarter.
We in fact have a book of business that I will let Guy talk about on the open-end fund which makes it an extremely viable alternative for us probably a quarter or 2 delayed.
But very much there as a good solid alternative for us to benchmark the J-REIT alternative against.
But we would be imprudent if we didn't look at that opportunity and we're well aware of the challenges of an externally advised structure.
But the good news in Japan is that that's only available structure.
So we're not doing anything weird or different.
The idea of having a third-party advisor run these assets is actually the way J-REITs as you know are set up in Japan.
So it's not for lack of a better term it's not a PEPR-type problem where investors prefer really an internally managed structure with its own management because that option is not available.
So I think it's a really different kettle of fish altogether from the PEPR-type project structures that are I would agree with you problematic.
So to summarize we have not made a decision.
We have to evaluate the opportunity to its full extent.
And when we do we'll figure out which one is the best for our company and our shareholders and that's the one we'll pursue.
Guy do you want to talk a little bit about the open-end fund.
Sure.
Relative to open-end fund I mean we are targeting $750 million of third-party equity for that.
Today we have something over $1 billion worth of prospects in various forms of analysis due diligence approval.
Some of those are extended processes people go through but we found that when we get these prospects to Japan to look at our properties people to meet our people it's a strong story and that's a story that we've got the best team on the ground.
There's nobody else that has 100 or so local people who can develop lease own and operate.
The properties we have for our seed portfolio about $2.5 billion or more worth of properties.
I mean these are our newest.
I mean these our newest and best they've been completed in this last cycle and they show really really well.
So we're not going to stop what we're doing on the open-end fund.
We're going to do these 2 in parallel so that we can find out what is the best option for Prologis.
Your next question comes from the line of Sri Nagarajan from Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on Hamid's comment on Japan open fund timeline being a little delayed if you can just outline or give us some color on the delay there.
And as well as a quick follow-up on the capital deployment.
I mean you had guided about $770 million to $980 million in developments charge and could we fairly assume right now given the state of the world economy that most of this would be Japan-centric? Mike will talk about the development volume.
I think with respect to the open-end fund you heard my answer and Guy's answer so I'm not sure what else we have to add there.
But originally we produced documents for the Japan fund at the end of 2011.
That's when we put the private placement memorandum together.
The average time of formation of a fund today and actually there was an article about this in one of the magazines that goes around is about 18 months.
So we had a very ambitious plan together and we still have a very ambitious plan together even within the timetable that we're talking about.
So we're talking about third or fourth quarter with that proceeding.
So yes it's a quarter behind but that's not unusual in this environment and we feel pretty good about that.
It's just that I don't want to do something to get a quarter or 2 and meet an artificial timetable if it's not the best thing to do.
So we're going to resist that but you've already heard me say that.
Mike you want to talk about development...
Sure.
Let's talk a little bit about the mix of the pipeline for the year.
We did get out certainly a fast start in the first quarter with $211 million of starts and Japan was $163 million of that start.
But overall across the year we envisioned the development pie looked something more like 40% in the Americas; 45% in Asia heavily driven by Japan; and call it 15% in Europe and compared to our mix from last year that would be 10 points higher in the Americas about the same in Asia and 10 points lower in Europe which feels pretty good relative to all of the factors in play.
In terms of mix 93% of that activity we had in the first quarter was build-to-suit.
So we expect to see our build-to-suit percentage to be a good 15 20 points higher than we saw last year.
We have to see this number in approximately the 40s for this year in terms of build-to-suit percentage given the fact that our pipelines are much more robust in the United States and Japan in terms of build-to-suit.
So that gives you a little flavor for geography and mix on the development pipeline.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Rodgers from our RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Hamid when I listened to your comments about the health of global trade or some of the forecast that you provided early on in your comments about U.S.
land and the appreciation that you kind of expect to see there.
Wondering along the same lines of the spec development comment that you just made is that at what point do you feel comfortable really ramping up U.S.
development? It seems like yield are coming back market rents appreciating.
Getting a sense for is the hurdle for you guys more a balance sheet issue where you'd like to monetize more the fund assets you brought on board or is it a fundamental issue and I guess the hurdles to get over that to really accelerate that U.S.
spec pipeline? It's absolutely not balance sheet and by way of reminder we are already a doing a couple of spec buildings in the U.S.; Houston we did one; Miami; LA; Washington.
We've got a big problem.
We start to do spec buildings and they turn into build-to-suits.
So I guess it's kind of a high class problem.
They're leasing up a pretty quickly.
So that's why they show up as maybe build-to-suits that are pre-leased but I'm not really exaggerating.
We've been doing this for some time and we'll continue to do it in a prudent way.
But volume-driven development gets companies into trouble.
We've seen that movie before and we're going to be careful with development and the land is not going anywhere.
It's sitting right there and it's very well located.
And I think cap rates -- put it this way cap rates I don't see going up anytime soon.
And I'm pretty sure rents are going up so whatever margin we have in them is going to improve as we prudently execute our plan.
Your next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just to follow up on that Hamid.
I think the margin the value creation margin on the development starts in the quarter was around 26% is that sort of a fair level that you guys think is appropriate throughout the region if you exclude Japan and you look at Europe and the Americas? And if so does that indicate that you think you're likely to accelerate the development just given that capital deployment level seem to be in line with what the expectations were a couple of months ago when you guys initially gave guidance? This is Mike.
I'll take that one.
In terms of the margin we saw in the first quarter it was a higher margin than expect to be than our overall average largely driven by the fact that activity took place in Japan and Brazil.
And I would say for the remainder of the year we certainly expect our blended margins to normalize somewhat and be much more in our typical range for example we would fully expect all of our build-to-suits in U.S.
and Europe to be in the margins in the 10-plus range and speculative construction would be in the mid-teens and/or higher.
So over the entire year we would expect more of a normalization more of a blend that would translate to normalized margin we've seen in the past slightly higher perhaps but in the mid-teens approaching 20s on average.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Going back to the more mundane Hamid it looks to me like your re-leasing cost have been running about $1.35 to $1.40 for a while now.
It went down to about $1.14 for this last quarter.
About the same time you also showed an improvement in your rent roll-downs.
Is there anything unusual going on here in terms of shorter lease term more deals done in-house that sort of thing that would cause this rather significant change? Yes this is Gene.
Let me take that question.
It does have to do with shorter lease terms and I would not expect the turnover cost to stay at $1.14 -- $1.30 $1.35 is a number that would be more sustainable.
We did have a drop-off in lease term over the quarter and we have high retention rate and both of those things will tend to push down those costs.
But I would not expect that to be a trend.
In fact the trend in terms of tenant demand is increasing comfort with longer lease terms.
This really just had to do with the mix of deals we did in the quarter and we had a couple of very large very short-term renewals that were related to big customers with 3 or 4 moving pieces.
So I would expect this to sort of go back to the trends that you've seen in the last couple of quarters.
And we're not trying to do more deals in house or anything like that in fact we have expanded our use of the brokerage network and we have more of an open listing kind of approach because we think that's the right way of doing that going forward so we're not trying to save on commissions.
Your next question comes from line of John Stewart from Green Street Advisor.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Maybe one quick one for Hamid if I may.
How much better ballpark in terms of execution would you require to go to make the JV route worthwhile as opposed to an open-end fund? And then quickly for maybe either Bill or Tom if you look at the net asset value detail on Page 28 and you zeroed on in the deferred income tax liability the $620 million there.
Can you remind us how much of that is related to PEPR and then hypothetically if we were to assume that the end game is to sell off an 80% interest in PEPR what would be both the accounting and economic ramifications? Okay John let me answer the question.
I don't think we will be sitting there side-by-side and looking at okay we're going to get 2% more out of one execution versus the other so let's do that one.
I don't think it's that kind of math.
I think it's going to be an assessment of the long-term sustainability of each program.
And whether than a natural local investor base that likes to be uninvested and not have a currency issue if you will on a long dated asset whether that is more sustainable if you will structure with more capacity because really our development business as I said a couple of times is ending up being a much bigger opportunity post-earthquake and tsunami than we thought.
And so our capacity needs are going to go up because of the development pipeline being bigger so it's really which is a more sustainable and larger capacity pipe because I think at the end of the day the pricing is going to be pretty similar.
Otherwise we wouldn't do it.
So it's on all the other intangibles that are going to drive the decision.
Go ahead Bill.
Let me just add relative to the deferred taxes.
I don't have the exact numbers in front of me but on the $600-plus million I'd say about 2/3 of it is related to PEPR.
And ultimately PEPR the vast majority of the PEPR assets are long-term -- high-quality long-term hold assets and so any realization of that deferred income tax is a function of how we contribute and/or sell the assets whether you sell assets directly or into these and the discussion on the net present value of that income tax liability.
So we don't envision a substantial realization of that in the near future.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> On the disposition guidance the $4.5 billion to $5.5 billion is the same as what it was last quarter.
Considering that you've taken Japan largely out of the mix I know you gave us a breakdown of where you expect the dispositions to come from but what changed relative to last quarter in terms of those other regions? Where did you pick up the slack from? I think we're slightly more focused on the Americas in terms of again getting out of some of the exit markets that we've identified as well as creating a fund within the Americas with some high-quality assets.
It took a lot of assets on the balance sheet in the second -- in first quarter and we have a fabulous portfolio of Canadian assets.
And so the opportunities to create some fund vehicles one or more have gone up.
And so that basically takes up the slack.
Seriously here's the way I think about it conceptually and maybe it's helpful to you guys.
The U.S.
the 2 companies before merging had been in the U.S.
the longest.
A pretty substantial part of the portfolio was acquired not developed.
Some of these assets were in other exit markets or in regional markets that we're trying to down weight.
So really the opportunity to sell assets in the U.S.
is primarily strategic because we're trying -- the biggest realignment opportunity anywhere in our universe is in the U.S.
because that's probably when we started the biggest mismatch between the assets we want to hold in the long-term and the total assets that we have the difference being salable properties.
In Europe and in Japan where the other 2 big concentrations are those are essentially by and large developed assets very very high quality much higher fit between the totality of those assets and where we want to be strategically.
So the realignment opportunities there are actually smaller than they are in the U.S.
And that's more of a fund-formation type of balance sheet activity as opposed to selling to align with our portfolio.
So we're getting very good reception in the U.S.
on our asset sales and so that's where we're going to push more business.
And we think it's a very receptive market for selling assets in the U.S.
In fact it is better than the end of last year and we're going to continue to execute in a prudent way.
That's why we don't mind.
I think we think assets in Europe that we have are trading at higher cap rates than they'll be trading in a year or 2.
So we're not in a big hurry to sell in those markets assets or frankly to re- if you will contribute those assets immediately because we think there's upside in the valuation substantial upside in the valuation.
So I think strategically the U.S.
is where we're trying to point more of the sales and less of it overseas.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> It's Chris Caton with Paul.
Hamid I just wanted to follow up on that point you talked about pricing in Europe.
Can you kind of take us between A and B and how do you see that market trending over the next year given some of the headwinds there from an asset pricing perspective or from a capital raising perspective on a limited partners side.
I think the capital raising prospects for Europe are pretty good.
People realize that Europe is a bargain today and pretty much the same what happened to the U.S.
some markets snapping back in terms of cap rates.
And people are viewed -- well there's some people standing around waiting for distressed opportunities in Europe and I think they'll essentially have the same experience as the people who were standing around distressed opportunities in the U.S.
But to answer your question specifically I think a lot of the valuations in Europe European -- good quality European markets are in the 7s and those historically would've been in the 6s.
And I think they will be the 6s within a reasonable period of time.
So I think -- don't get me wrong we are going to execute on our plan and all that but on the margin if we have the marginal million dollar portfolio to sell we're more likely to sell it in the U.S.
because it's closer to what its normalized value is in our view than in Europe.
That's all I'm saying.
But we're still going to form the funds and do our business the way we planned on it.
It's just that there's a bias to not being in a hurry there because we think there's room in the CapEx to come in somewhat.
Financing costs in Europe are maybe 50 basis points higher than they are in the U.S.
but cap rates are way wider than that for the similar quality property.
So it only makes sense that we do what I just described.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Feldman from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Sticking with Europe can you just give a little bit more color on operating fundamentals there? Kind of how deep is the pool of interested tenants what your outlook for the rest of the year? Sure.
Jamie It's Gary.
Maybe I'll start with customer sentiment.
I don't think customer sentiment in Europe has changed really for the past 8 quarters.
There is cautious optimism and you know our customers basically and have for the past 2 years really been really thoughtful about taking that incremental bit of space but they have been taking that incremental bit of space as you can see in the numbers 50 basis points this quarter and 280 basis points over the prior 3 quarters.
Like last quarter it's expansionary.
They're sitting there basically at very very high utilization rates and they have to take that next incremental bit of space and they're doing it.
The key drivers in terms of our customers is still automotive.
It's still e-commerce and it's nonfood retail.
So again I think is cautious optimism and they're taking space as they actually have the business.
But they're not in a big rush to make decisions which is exactly where the U.S.
was maybe 2 years ago.
And that's the difference.
The deals are around and they'll take their time and they got to go to 5 more committees and get 3 more approvals before they pull the trigger.
That's actually probably the best comment because I mean I think if the operating guys in the ground could make a decision for themselves they would take incremental space but they're having to kick that decision upstairs to corporate and that decision process is prolonged.
But if you talk to our team in Europe they are very -- our conversations go like this "Are you sure you guys are sounding as positive are we hearing you correctly?" It's really that kind of conversation -- we have a confident competent team with great assets in Europe and they're not backing off and they have delivered so far delivered great.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Hamid with the stock now trading basically at the midpoint of your $35 to $38 NAV range do you have any desire whatsoever to issue additional common equity sort of in order to delever and I understand you said there's no timeline you sort of want get through the deleveraging through next year but it does sound at least some of the assets sales and contributions are pushed a little bit further back as you sort of evaluate the J-REIT stuff and you put more product in the U.S.
on the market.
So I'm just curious how you think about equity today especially when it's trading basically in line with the NAV so it's little bit less dilutive relative to the issuance last year.
Michael I'm holding Sully back because he's trying jump on the table and answer that question because every time in the past I've tried to answer that question and I've totally messed it up.
So let me have him since he won't be on this call next quarter.
Let me have him...
So Michael I will answer that question very simply there's no right answer for that question.
If we said yes people would go crazy.
And if we said no people would go crazy.
And so we have made the conscious decision that that question will not be answered either in investor meetings or on these calls.
Or anywhere.
Your last question comes from line of Brendan Maiorana from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just have a follow-up with respect to expiring rents.
Do you guys think that the expiring rent levels are going to go down on a cash basis as you look out to the balance of 2012 and into 2013 given low rents that were signed at the trough of the markets in late '09 -- I mean late '08 '09 and '10 or were those more reflective of sort of the teaser rates and the cash rents that are in place from those low initial rents are now sort of closer to market? It's Gene.
Let me take a stab at that.
I'm not sure I'm completely understanding your question but if you focus on what do expect for the remainder of 2012 and I think as Sully mentioned if you look at the composition of what's rolling and we look at the vintage years of those leases we're going to see roll-downs that are more negative than you're seeing this quarter.
And it will resume the overall trend toward positive rent change probably sometime end of the year early next year.
So hopefully that's responsive to the question but if we look at the composition of those leases they'll roll down a little more negative than you saw this quarter.
[indiscernible] fewer and fewer pre-peak leases though to sort of answer that piece of the question and if we're talking about rent change one thing I would like to add about Europe for example is that for the first time in 16 quarters we've had positive rent change in Europe.
That's an unbelievable stat.
Now you can look at that stat any way I mean you can discount it because of mix you can discount it because of the fact that there are higher percentage of renewals than new leases.
But the fact remains that we are getting closer and closer to an inflection point and it's undeniably heading in the right direction.
And just final point our cash same-store NOI was actually closer to 4% this year so well above the cap.
And so we're starting to see this come through.
Okay.
With that that was last question.
So let me just summarize.
I think we have a really great first quarter and I'm hoping that this will continue throughout the rest of 2012.
Again from our perspective it sure seems that way but you guys need to make up your own minds about fiscal cliff and the like.
But the key takeaways are: Number one operations around the globe are firing on all cylinders; secondly we're ahead of our 10-quarter deleveraging plan and realignment plan and we're confident that we'll meet our objectives in the timeframes that we've indicated them; and finally the drivers of the business are all heading in the right direction and we have the properties the platform and the people in place to get ahead of those trends.
Thank you for joining us today and we'll see many of you at [indiscernible] in a couple of weeks.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Prologis Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions]   Thank you.
Tracy Ward Senior Vice President of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Stephanie.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our second quarter 2012 conference call.
The supplemental document is available on our website at prologis.com under Investor Relations.
This morning we'll hear from Hamid Moghadam co-CEO and Chairman who will comment on the company's strategy and the market environment; and then from Tom Olinger CFO who will cover results and guidance.
Additionally we are joined today by members of our executive team including Walt Rakowich Gary Anderson Mike Curless Nancy Hemmenway Guy Jaquier Ed Nekritz and Gene Reilly.
Before we begin prepared remarks I'd like to quickly state that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements under Federal securities laws.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates and projections about the market and the industry in which Prologis operates as well as management's beliefs and assumptions.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and actual operating results may be affected by a variety of factors.
For a list of those factors please refer to the forward-looking statement matters in our 10-K or SEC filings.
I'd also like to state that our second quarter results press release and supplemental do contain financial measures such as FFO and EBITDA that are non-GAAP measures.
And in accordance with Reg G we have provided a reconciliation to those measures.
[Operator Instructions] Hamid will you please begin? Thanks.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter earnings call.
When we spoke with you last quarter we reported strong performance and positive momentum across all our business lines.
While the economy has slowed since April I'm pleased to report that we delivered solid results for the quarter.
Given the doom and gloom headlines we thought it'd be helpful to review the indicators that most effect our business and to assess their impact on our company's prospects.
While revised down global trade remains well above peak.
Additionally the IMF continues to forecast growth of 3.8% for 2012 and significantly higher next year.
Global container volumes continue to grow.
For the major ports who have reported their volumes are up about 1% year-over-year and the forecasts are that they'll be up 5% by year end.
Looking to the U.S.
While retail sales moderated in the second quarter they're up almost 5% year-over-year.
Despite slightly tempered expectations real inventories continued to grow in the second quarter following an annualized growth rate of more than 3% in the prior quarter.
These factors created the backdrop for net absorption of 26 million square feet in the U.S.
in the quarter a number on par with the first quarter.
We're forecasting total absorption of 150 million feet for 2012 up 25% over last year.
This means absorption is expected to be 50% stronger in the second half in line with its historic trends.
Effective rents continue to increase in our U.S.
global markets and on the margin in our regional markets.
Outside the U.S.
we see high demand and rent growth in Japan China Brazil Canada and the major consumer markets in Mexico.
Even Europe is stable with occupancy and prime brands holding steady in the vast majority of our European global markets.
The broader recovery in inventories and net absorption of industrial space is clearly reflected in our second quarter operating results.
Our team signed 35 million square feet of new and renewal leases in the second quarter.
This comes on the heels of 31 million square feet of leasing last quarter and is close to fourth quarter levels typically the year's most active leasing period.
We find ourselves in an excellent position for the second half as we have minimal role of about 4% for the balance of the year.
This is in sharp contrast to the 10% of lease expirations we resolved in the first half of this year.
Let me give you a little more detail on the leasing environment and its impact on our portfolio.
The strongest demand continues to be for large Class A facilities.
Occupancy remains the highest in our larger spaces.
The real news however is the momentum in the leasing of our smaller spaces.
At quarter end our occupancy of units less than 100 000 feet in the U.S.
was up 110 basis points from the first quarter.
Demand for larger spaces continues to be driven by consolidation supply chain reconfiguration and e-commerce.
Changing tax laws as well as free and same-day delivery are driving the need for our customers to be closer to consumers.
This aligns well with our global market strategy.
It's important to note that this high volume of leasing is not being done at the expense of rate.
Market rents continue to improve overall but the primary movement is coming from larger Class A spaces which generated positive rent increases of about 2%.
The recovery is broadening.
No market in the Americas is getting weaker and even lagging markets such as Atlanta and Chicago are showing strength for the first time in years.
Let me now give you an update on what's happening on the ground in Europe.
In spite of economic headwinds the operating environment for industrial real estate in our markets is holding up well.
Importantly there is little deterioration of rents in our European portfolio.
Though the overall leasing demand is subdued the lack of new supply and the dwindling stock of vacant buildings have allowed us to push rents and lease terms on a selective basis.
As a matter of fact Europe was our strongest continent with the smallest declines in rents and roll over.
The key here is that the European demand is driven more by long-term structural drivers such as supply chain and reconfiguration than by changes in GDP.
Demand still outweighs supply in most major markets in Europe.
The trend is for continued positive net absorption ad space utilization remains high and customers continue to optimize their supply chains.
During this point in the cycle top line growth is limited and therefore customers are focused on reducing operational cost through network consolidations.
Our portfolio is clearly meeting the need.
Case in point during the second quarter occupancy in our European portfolio held steady at 92.1% outperforming the overall European market on average by about 350 basis points.
This outperformance is because of our high-quality portfolio as 90% of our European assets are in the strongest markets and our team is second to none.
These long-term drivers of demand globally are also apparent in the institutional investment community and are fueling demand for private capital funds.
During the second quarter we raised $163 million of new third-party equity in our core open-end funds.
This was a strong quarter of fundraising and brings our 2012 total to $288 million for these vehicles.
Additionally we remain on track for closing our new development fund in Japan before year end.
As the Suzhou investment and interest continues to grow so does our progress on the fund rationalization front.
A good example of this is the progress we made in winding down PEPR.
At quarter's end we owned 99.5% of the fund and expect to have full ownership by the end of August.
We've already started the recapitalization process of our European portfolio ahead of our original schedule.
Last quarter we spoke in some detail about our financing and structuring alternatives for our portfolio in Japan.
We're investing the capital to obtain the applicable licenses to form a J-REIT.
We want to have the ability to select the optimal structure to realize the best value from our Japan assets.
It's important to note that the J-REIT maybe an alternative or a complement to our open end fund as the future vehicle for the long-term ownership of our operating assets in Japan.
The combined effects of consumer demand lack of new supply and growing investor interest is leading to a variety of capital deployment opportunities for us around the world.
Going forward we expect the majority of our deployment activity to come from development as opposed to straight acquisitions.
On the development front built-to-suits represent 80% of our starts year to date.
All of which are being constructed on our land bank.
This activity is supported by strong leasing demand paired with the dearth of supply of large spaces from global markets.
Our margins on our year-to-date starts are more than 20%.
While we don't expect to sustain these margins over the cycle these strong margins validate the value of our land bank.
We'd expect margins to normalize to our historical range of 12% to 15% going forward.
Given investor appetite for high-quality industrials real estate we're increasing the pace of our nonstrategic dispositions especially in the U.S.
As we typically do this time of the year we're working hard to bring a few packages to market and expect a busy fourth quarter of closings.
To wrap up my comments I'd say that despite the gloomy economic headlines we're encouraged by the realities on the ground and the evidence of what we see in the market.
Trade consumption and GDP levels are growing beyond previous peak levels.
This coupled with very high utilization levels should continue to drive net absorption throughout the year.
We're making excellent progress on our priorities and are looking forward to reporting on our further progress in the coming quarters.
With that I'll turn it over to Tom for a closer look in our results and guidance Thanks Hamid.
This morning I'll cover 3 topics.
First a summary of our Q2 results; second an overview of our capital markets activity; and third an update on our guidance for the year.
Let's start with our results.
Core FFO for the second quarter was $0.43 a share $0.02 above our expectations.
The outperformance was primarily due to stronger net operating income driven by higher occupancy.
We had expected occupancy to dip slightly in the second quarter given the amount of leasing rolling.
Foreign exchange did not materially impact the core FFO for the quarter as the average euro rate was $1.29 just under our forecasted level.
Looking over our operating portfolio performance occupancy at the quarter end was 92.4% up 10 basis points sequentially and 170 basis points year-over-year.
All regions contributed to the strong leasing activity of over 35 million square feet an increase of more than 4 million square feet from the prior quarter.
For the third consecutive quarter we saw healthy demand in leasing for our smaller spaces in the U.S.
The smaller spaces will be a key driver of continued occupancy growth.
Our European portfolio had another solid quarter result with occupancy holding firm at 92.1%.
For the second half of the year as Hamid mentioned we only have 4.2% of our ABR rolling as a result of a significant number of renewals that were resolved in the second quarter.
This positions us well for continued occupancy growth through the remainder of the year.
Rent change on rollover was a negative 3.9% for the second quarter.
GAAP same-store NOI was at 0.4%.
while stabilized cash same-store NOI was up 2.3%.
I'd like to point out the additional stabilized cash NOI disclosure for both same store and NAV included in our supplemental package in this quarter.
Lastly I want to point out that our bad debt expense for the last several quarters has been about 1/2 our long-term average which is obviously a very positive trend.
To put this in context our historical bad debt expenses averaged at about 50 basis points of revenue and during the last downturn bad debt expense was over 100 basis points.
Turning now to capital markets.
During the quarter we concluded more than $1.2 billion of debt financings refinancings and pay downs and we further improved our average debt cost.
Subsequent to quarter end we closed 2 transactions for Prologis European Property Fund II our EUR 145 million senior unsecured term loan and a GBP 40 million secured facility.
While the financing environment in Europe is very challenging we were able to compete these 2 transactions on very attractive terms.
As we have seen in the past the strength of our sponsorship the quality of our assets and our global platform enables us to source capital very effectively.
We continue to reposition our debt stack towards non-U.S.
dollar borrowings to further naturally hedge our foreign net equity.
Turning to dispositions and contributions.
During the second quarter we completed $228 million in building and land dispositions and contributions.
Our share of these proceeds was $191 million.
On the capital deployment front we committed approximately $313 million to capital in the quarter of which $277 million was our share.
Total deployment included $229 million of development starts and $85 million of building acquisitions.
Now turning to guidance for 2012.
We're increasing the bottom of our range for full year core FFO from $1.60 to $1.64 per share and maintaining the top end range at $1.70.
The main driver of this guidance is our forecast of the macro economy and the drivers of demand for our business.
We continue to expect slow and steady growth in the overall global economy driven by demand from consolidation supply reconfiguration and e-commerce fulfillment.
From a foreign currency standpoint we're assuming an average euro rate for the second half of the year of $1.2 an average yen of JPY 80.
The lower euro rate assumption had about a $0.02 reduction to our second half forecast.
For operations 2012 same-store NOI guidance is unchanged at 1% to 2%.
We're forecasting yearend occupancy be between 93% and 93.5% which reflects an increase of the low end of our prior guidance of 92.5%.
We're seeing market rent growth in the majority of our markets today.
However we do expect rent change on rollovers to be negative in the second half driven primarily by smaller spaces.
2012 will be the end of the negative lease roll downs as our larger spaces are already in positive territory smaller spaces continue to recover and leases signed during the prior peak roll off.
On the expense side we continue to forecast net G&amp;A of $208 million at $213 million for the year.
For capital deployment we're maintaining our full year forecast of $1.5 billion to $2 billion with our overall share of expected investment to be about 70%.
Deployment includes $1.1 billion to $1.4 billion of development starts primarily in the Americas and Japan and $400 million to $600 million of acquisitions mostly in our co-investment ventures in the Americas and Europe.
The acquisition market remains challenging given the high demand for Class A product which results in very competitive pricing.
We'll continue to be disciplined and only and pursue transactions that makes sense from both a quality and valuation standpoint.
Turning to contributions and dispositions.
We are widening our annual range to $3.5 billion to $7 billion from $4.5 billion to $5.5 billion.
This activity can vary significantly based on the recapitalization of PEPR and the Japan operating assets.
If one of these transactions happens we could be at the high end of our guidance.
While if neither happens we could be at the low end of our guidance.
We feel very good about completing the contribution disposition activity.
It's just a matter of timing as to what closes by year end.
Our focus continues to be on achieving good execution over the course of our 10-quarter plan.
In closing we are very pleased with our results this quarter and our progress to date and we remain highly focused on our strategic priorities to further position the company for continued growth.
At this point I'll turn the call back to the operator to open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Tom question for you.
With respect to the guidance two things.
One was there any change due to the timing of the dispositions which sounds like maybe it's a little bit later in the year relative to prior expectations? And then at the low end I guess it sounds like there's an additional $2 billion of dispositions and was I correct in assuming that that would exclude PEPR and anything on the Japan open end fund? Okay.
Brandon I'll take the first -- I'll take both of those.
On the disposition side and the second half back-end nature of these really had a minimal impact on our guidance slightly dilutive for the back half of the year.
However when you look at our total 10-Q plan dilution is virtually 0 and that's because of -- in the second half of the year what's happening is we're accelerating more U.S.
dispositions which will be our higher cap rates and the only debt we really have available to pay down is our line of credit which is very low interest rates.
So when we get into 2013 you've got Japan assets that are yielding much lower than the U.S.
and we can get after higher interest rate debt that's maturing.
On your second point to go to our guidance I'll give you some of the pieces of our disposition and contribution activity.
So when you look at our range for the year of $3.5 billion to $7 billion and you back out the $1.2 billion we've done already that leaves a range for the second half of between $2.3 billion and $5.8 billion.
When you look at what we have we have a lot of irons in the fire.
We have a lot of activity going on so this range does not include every possible transaction that could happen.
So when you look at what we have what irons we have in the fire here it starts with the PEPR recapitalization we have over $3 billion of assets for recapitalization.
Japan operating assets are $2.9 billion.
We've got Canada assets of $450 million.
We've got sales of over $200 billion the sales are primarily in the U.S.
-- $2 billion I'm sorry.
And controls [ph] of the $1.5 billion.
So when you look at all that activity that aggregates to one -- over $10 billion of activity.
So again we feel good about that list.
It's a matter of timing and what on that list closes by year end.
Your next question comes from Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious what your embedded GDP forecast is for the back half of the year both for the U.S.
and the global economy.
And in particular I was thinking about it relative to some of the comments that UPS made on their conference call insofar as they think that forecasts are too high in GDP growth is going to come in closer to 1%.
And if that scenario played out what do you think it would do to your business? Our forecast is higher than that.
It's about 2% for the U.S.
and in the mid-3s for the global economy.
I think on the global economy frankly the markets that we're operating in I'm not worried about that at all because really if you see most of the activity on the development side is in markets where there's virtually no supply and the trends in Japan and China and all that are very very strong and I don't them see changing by the end of the year.
In terms of the U.S.
I must say that even though the economy has slowed there has been probably a little bit of a slowdown in terms of leasing activity.
But still it's either the lag or it's the high utilization rates.
We suspect it's the high utilization rate but there is -- we're just running out of space in the U.S.
The fact of the matter is that nobody has really built anything in 4 years and there's been a fair amount of obsolescence.
So we're getting pricing power in a lot of markets notwithstanding the slowdown of the economy.
So at the margins there's 1% or 2% I'll leave that discussion for smarter people than us but I think demand for our product is going to be really really good going forward.
Your next question comes from Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just sticking on the disposition plans and Tom you had sort of outlined this $10 billion grouping part of which is obviously contributions that you can make.
But I think at least for PEPR don't you have the ability just with the capacity and some of the funds that you have today to be able to rotate some of that $3 billion pretty much almost immediately and then I would think that on the $1.5 billion of contributions outside of PEPR you have the ability to do a lot of that today.
Japan obviously the question mark as you evaluate and then you have all these $2 billion of outright sales it would seem that with all this stuff happening it probably is something that's sooner rather than later just given your ability.
So maybe you can just sort of walk through a little bit how much you can execute almost immediately versus needing the market to go your way.
Okay.
Michael I'll let Tom walk you through the details of it.
But big picture the reasons are lower end of our range is $3.5 billion on all this de-leveraging activity is exactly because of what you said because we have a fair amount of visibility in our contribution pipeline which when added to the deals that we've already closed and the deals that we have in the market with good action on them we feel pretty good about the low end of that.
And the upper end of $7 billion is really not everything we were working on.
That big list is over $10 billion.
So by way of reminder the 10-quarter plan is a 10-quarter plan that ends at the end of 2013.
So whether it -- how much of this $10 billion is going to fall exactly into this year and how much of it is going to fall into exactly next year that's harder to predict.
But we feel we got enough irons in the fire that we can be in that range as I described.
Now maybe Tom you can go through the pieces of that.
So Michael you're correct in that.
So the PEPR number I gave you of $3.1 billion would exclude any of our planned contributions of assets out of PEPR into our other European funds this year.
So the $1.5 billion of contributions I mentioned about 2/3 of that so about $1 billion of that contribution now is either existing PEPR assets or existing on balance sheet Europe assets that we can contribute into our 3 existing funds.
So when you look at the Allianz fund it's the capital to go the fund II -- -- PEPF II it's got capital plus we're raising more capital PCAL [PH] we continue to raise capital.
So it's some news that we feel good about getting those contributions in this year and that's our plan.
Yes.
And then just to finish up on that in terms of how we think about our European portfolio and its recapitalization really at this point we think about PEPR and the balance sheet assets as being one integrated portfolio because we own 99.5% of PEPR it's an effect [ph] balance sheet.
So really going forward think about those 2 things as really being 1.
And a big chunk of them is going to go to the existing funds and then a big chunk of them is going to get recapitalized.
Your next question  comes from David Toti with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly when you talk about your margins contracting back to the meeting is this something you just expect over time in a normal course of business or are there indications today perhaps regionally that that is underway already? I'll start and Mike will finish up on that.
I think part of it is also land value which is that -- remember this land has been pretty heavily impaired.
So I know a lot of the discussion the last couple of years has been sort of is our land appropriately valued or not and it's tough to answer that question when there are very few land comp sales of industrial land in the market.
But I think as we put this land into production and we're getting the yield on our total development that at the impaired values that lead to a 20% margin the kind of tells you that our land is valued well and maybe upside in the land value to start off with.
The other thing that I just want to tie back to the dilution comment that Tom made a couple of questions ago the incremental land on these developments that we're putting into service given that we already own the land and it's not yielding anything are really high.
So the couple hundred million dollars that we're putting in let's say and it's yielding 8% with land without land it's yielding like 10%.
So that means that our deployment activity really fills up any kind of dilution that we might have from paying down debt.
So with that Mike why don't you talk about the granulated [ph] stuff.
And in terms of margins we certainly got off to a great start at the first half of the year with the deals in Brazil and Japan that drove some high margins and over time over the year we expect that normalize somewhat as we anticipate doing a larger proportion of build-to-suits in the Americas particularly in the U.S.
where we expect build-to-suits margins to be more normalized in that 10% to 15% range.
So nothing unusual it's just a matter of timing and mix and over the long haul over the year we'd expect those to normalize somewhat.
Your next question comes from Craig Mailman with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Maybe could you just talk a little bit about the demand you're seeing for the Japan fund maybe in a dollar amount? And then maybe discuss the triggers or the decision tree for going the open ended fund route versus J-REITs route? Well let me give you the big picture answer and Guy will give you more details on the Private Capital side of this.
So first of all you should not think of the J-REIT or the open end fund as either or solutions in the long-term.
We may end up actually having both because we have -- the important thing is we have a very good development pipeline in Japan and we're leasing it up much faster than we thought.
So the Japan business is going really well and we need capacity if you will to absorb these assets as they're completed.
They're really good assets and we all like to talk about cap rates and all that in different parts of the world but you got to understand when you're talking about a 5.5% cap rate asset in Japan you're talking a brand-new state-of-the-art 6 or 8 story building with one roof virtually no parking lot no CapEx very little turnover cost which means that your 5.5% is really 5.5% it's not like the 6% in the U.S.
that you got to take out PIs and commissions and all that.
So the 5.5% is a pretty good return.
And once you look at financing rates that are 1.5% to 2% in Japan your cash yields are in the high single digit range in an economy that has virtually no inflation.
We love our assets in Japan and we love the return on our assets in Japan.
One of these days a lot of people are going to figure that out.
In fact it's probably the place in the world that the yield on the assets is the widest that we see over the cost of capital.
So we need high-capacity vehicles both private and public to do this.
We are giving ourselves a lot of optionality by going through the licensing requirements of the J-REITs.
The trigger will be the valuation.
I mean the J-REITs are trading at a slight discount to NAV today we're watching that very carefully.
But just immediate upfront valuation is not the sole criteria.
We are looking at the governance issues that go along with that having just had recent experience with another public vehicle in Europe that we've gotten pretty good at understanding those governance issues and working through those.
So there are a lot of different factors and the one thing that we've done wrong is that we went out there and we said we're going to get this done this year.
We'll get it done this year if it makes sense to get it done this year and we won't get it done this year if it doesn't make sense because we love the yield on these assets.
With that let me have Guy fill in...
With respect to the Japan development fund.
We are seeing a lot of good interest.
We're in advance discussions with a number of investors this includes weekly due diligence sessions including like last night San Francisco time which ships ph] Asia time for their convenience.
[indiscernible] discussions with existing partners we have and other funds around the world.
Just picking up on what Hamid said it is surprising to a lot of these investors when they start to peel the onion on the development opportunity in Japan.
And Michael talked earlier about the 20% margins we're seeing at some of our Japan development.
A big majority of these are build-to-suits [indiscernible] intuitive in a relatively slow growth environment that one of your strongest development markets would be Japan.
But as the investors start to peel the onion we're giving a lot of [indiscernible].
Your next question comes from Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> On the core portfolio if you look at where you are in occupancy versus the high end of your guidance for the year of 93.5% if you were to approach the high end by year end what would it take -- what regions or markets would drive you there? And do you see it coming from the improvement that you mentioned in the smaller units or just [indiscernible] ? Paul it's Gene.
Let me at least start with that.
Gary might want to pile on.
But I think the first thing you're going to look to is our ROE second half of the years is just over 4%.
So we've plowed through about 3 quarters of our ROE already this year.
So we have a light ROE coming at us.
We do need to continue to build occupancy in small tenant spaces but in the last 3 quarters we've added almost 200 basis points.
We're still in the sort mid-88s for those spaces.
But as we've discussed in probably the last 3 calls we see really good momentum there.
We also now have a little bit of vacancy in large spaces.
It's about 2% 3% but I'll give you an example.
We had in the U.S.
we have I think 2.2 million feet of vacant space above 500 000 feet and that's in floor spaces.
So to make them today and we have deals working on all that space.
So we have a pretty high confidence level that as that space ROEs we'll lease it up.
In terms of regional contributions to this if you look at Los Angeles it's 97% leased or thereabouts.
Not much more to add.
But frankly I wouldn't be surprised if we pushed it a little bit higher.
The other thing I'll just leave you with is that the regional markets are really beginning to recover.
So our level of confidence in improving occupancy there has also improved.
So it's basically a variety of factors.
And I'd just say the contribution is pretty broad based.
I mean we don't expect much contribution in occupancy from Asia.
Asia's already trending at about 97% so there's not much wood to chop there vis-à-vis increases in occupancy but we do expect to see occupancy to increase in Europe for the same reasons same basic reasons that Gene outlined.
We've got very little ROE we've done a lot of work in the first half and when you look at our pipeline the visibility that we have to the pipeline we would expect to end the year higher than we are today.
Your next question comes from Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
Just a couple of quick questions around PEPR.
At what all-in rate do you think you can contribute or dispose those assets at today? And at what yield would you not be a seller given that it might not help you de-leverage? And second quick question is I noticed that you acquired an asset for PEP II third party.
I'm just curious as to why you did that instead of waiting to contribute assets into it.
Well the second question is very easy to answer.
We see good opportunities for our funds to invest in assets from third parties.
The funds are there to make good returns for our investors.
The funds are not there just to take out our balance sheet asset.
So let's be clear about that.
So that one is an easy one.
With respect to exactly where we would transact I would rather not engage in that conversation on the call today.
Obviously that's a negotiation that we're happy to report on after we're done with it.
But I think you asked a good question and the question is would we do something stupid to meet a 10-quarter plan and the answer is rest assured we're not going to do something stupid to meet that plan.
We can be patient.
We have more activity going on than our plan and we left some optionality around it.
So we will be patient.
We have really good assets and deal them at an attractive price.
Your next question comes from John Stewart with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A little bit of a follow-up along that line of questioning actually.
First of all Tom what would the weighted average cap rate be on the entire $10 billion of dispositions and contributions that you've identified? And then on -- specifically on Europe Hamid last quarter you'd commented on where your thought sort of spot cap rates were and I guess with respect to assets specifically identified for contribution from PEPR how do you reach a meeting of the mind on the evaluation of those contributions? Okay.
First of all the appraisal progression in Europe is really good and probably better than anywhere else in the world.
And there's a high level of transparency and trust in that process.
And that's really the basis for transacting and there's an independent advisory board that looks over that process and we have good governance built in to ensure that the pricing is good.
Tom can you...
I'll take -- so looking at the $10 billion and the mix of those assets I would expect that the blended would be in the mid-6s when you consider on the low end of cap rates you're going to have Japan to be 5.25% to 5.5% and on the high end you would have disposed in our other regional markets in the U.S.
that have a 7% in front of them.
It would be in the 6s clearly on an all-in cost but remember my point about monetizing the land bank.
I think some portion of those will be land bank which on the incremental capital will get very good yield so -- and some of those will be sold.
So that will pull up the average cap rate in effect that you'll see on those.
Your next question comes from Mike Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the balance sheet Tom.
Next year it looks like you have about $800 million or $900 million coming to you between converts and bonds and I mean how should we be thinking about that? Do you just see those 2 items or that those 2 buckets of items going away by asset sales or do you plan on refinancing some of the debt? And I guess to that point where do you think you could price new debt today? So our current plan will be to clearly retire that debt with proceeds from contributions and dispositions.
What we could do today I mean there's been some good price points out there with other REITs in the last couple of weeks.
And that traded significantly through cash yields.
Our bonds are very tightly held.
We see very little activity on those.
If you looked at where those are trading today at 10 years probably trading 250-ish over spread a 2.50% spread.
I would expect if looking at other activity we could do something in the low 2s today if we would choose to go out there.
I mean clearly being able to do 10-year money at sub 4% rates is very attractive.
So not to say that we wouldn't think about doing something at some point just to have -- that's really cheap capital to have if -- to put out there.
But the plan right now would be to just pay it off with disposing contrast.
Your next question comes from John Guinee with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One last question on the whole disposition contribution.
Whether it's $2.3 billion or $10 billion I think everybody hopes you sell these at low cap rates high proceeds but you've also got probably a low tax basis through depreciation.
How should we look at the capital gains tax? And is that already accounted for in your $560 million deferred income tax liability? John I'll take that.
It would be built into our deferred income tax liability for sure.
And when you look at that liability it's around $525 million at the end of the quarter.
A big chunk of that would be a $375 million related to PEPR.
Our belief of PEPR is we're going to be able to move most of those assets via entity transactions and not outright sale.
So that liability would essentially move as part of the purchase price to whatever agreed on with that to the purchaser.
We could be selling some assets from a sales perspective and we would settle up that deferred tax liability to that extent.
I think the other issue would just be around taxable income.
And looking at distribution requirements with some of the gains for example the Japan assets create a very significant gain.
So we'll have to look at our payout ratios relative to our TI over this period.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up just a little bit on the build-to-suit and sort of development starts overall.
I'm just curious as you think about where that demand is coming from for the activity you're doing how much of that is coming from your existing tenant base and perhaps coming out of your existing buildings how much is more market-driven? And then maybe just a comment overall on development activity.
It looks at least in the U.S.
from the data that we're seeing that starts while still below historical averages or certainly over the last couple of months has been rising and are coming back to almost 1% of stock.
So I'm just curious just sort of what you're seeing in your marketplaces as other developers are stepping up and starting a new product and whether this is really incremental absorption or whether it's people just shuffling around and whether there's a negative impact on the core portfolio.
This is Mike Curless.
Why don't I take this from an overall viewpoint and then I'll flip it to Gene for a little bit of color in terms of where some of this demand is coming from.
We're real excited in terms of our activity in the first half of the year with $440 million in development activity and which you've heard some 80% of that was in the form of build-to-suits and specifically we started 7 build-to-suit projects in the U.S.
Japan in Brazil that total over $355 million volume some 3.5 million square feet.
And as we mentioned the margins there were strong in the 20% range and based on yields that blended in the high 7s.
I think a big part that had to do with driving those strong margins was the land that we monetized in the process.
We think that that land provided us a real competitive advantage and once again proves out that our land bank is a real differentiator and helps us not only win business and drive margins.
And I think this activity was fueled in 2 primary large buckets.
We had a very robust pipeline both in the Americas and Asia in terms of build-to-suit prospects which I think will bode very well for the rest of the year's activity.
We'd expect to duplicate this type of volume as we look forward to the balance of the year but maybe Gene why don't you add a little color in terms of where some of that specific demand is coming from.
Sure.
So Michael the demand we've been seeing building over the last couple of quarters it really has been coming from consumer products companies outside the U.S.
and inside the U.S.
Our online sales are probably the biggest category.
And that will be across a variety of industries.
But our activity in terms of size to this quarter is heavily weighted to online sales.
We think that is going to continue.
I think we mentioned in the prepared remarks that as tax laws change in the United States that is going -- really needs population centers and gateways that are winners in that equation.
So we're seeing that take place.
We're seeing customers frankly assume that tax laws will be rationalized across the U.S.
And I think on balance our build-to-suit activity is going to be stronger this year than expected.
You've heard us talk about this for a couple of years now.
Finally we have some deals to talk about but volume is good in the first half of the year and our pipeline for the second is equally strong at this point.
Michael in Europe and Asia I mean there are basically 3 buckets of customers that are driving demand for build-to-suits.
It's e-commerce it's pharmaceutical and it's automobile.
Those are really the 3 key drivers for us.
Your next question comes from Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> It's Chris with Paul.
I just wanted to follow-up with Guy on the fundraising and separate from short-term negotiations how would you characterize the fund raising environment today? What strategies are clients interested in and what issues are they less interested in? Sure.
I would say that many of the investors are cautious.
They're doing a lot of due diligence but they're still moving forward in making decisions.
I think there's the larger investors the larger global investors are actually quite aggressive in certain areas.
Some of the smaller investors have moved a bit to the sidelines or at least gotten a little more conservative but there's still pretty good demand.
With respect to how this is working out and those negotiations we usually start our private capital presentation talking about our global platform our people our products and all that and the conversation quickly returns to yes we acknowledge that you're the global leader but we want to talk about price and terms.
And with respect to that we're not the price leader in investment management.
We're not in the Private Capital business just to increase assets under management.
We really just don't need to build scale.
We're doing it for a profit.
We're willing to accept that profit in the back end in total incentive fees but we do this as a business.
With respect to the terms and how that back and forth goes it's really creating a balance for the investor's desire to participate in fund governance.
But we've got to create a structure that recognizes that most of these funds we are the largest co-investor or at least one of the largest and we're the GP and we have to have discretion to execute and strategy.
We're not just a path wheel [ph] manager providing a service to increase assets under management.
That's just not the best way to build long-term value for our network our customers our private capital partners and our shareholders.
So it's back and forth.
We could cut these and give up GP discretions and increase assets under management but we just don't have to and we don't think that's the best way to build this business in the long-term.
Your next question comes from John Stewart with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could we get you to either update or reiterate your latest greatest estimate for merger costs and synergies? And then Hamid could we get your 30 000-foot view on fundamentals valuation and the size of your land bank in Mexico? Great.
John I'll take the first piece.
On synergies no change although we continue to find opportunities to become more efficient as we continue to move forward.
On the merger expenses side we would see $70 million to $75 million merger expenses this year.
That's up from what we talked about probably back in Q3 and the biggest drivers of that there's 2 big drivers of that.
One is PEPR coming in house recapitalization happening.
Or bringing in-house I should say in 2012 so there's expenses associated with that and there's higher severance cost primarily related to some work we're doing in Europe to reorganize in Europe.
But you will also remember this ties in to the fact that we raised our synergy guidance back in Q4 which was largely around finding more headcount synergies.
Okay.
And I'll address your question on valuation.
I hope it's a little closer than 30 000 feet though because we're actually selling a fair amount of real estate all around the world so we have pretty good insight into what cap rates really are and all that.
I would say in the U.S.
the very best market the very best assets are midsize in place stabilized sort of call it 93% to 95% occupancy type numbers.
And when you go to the global markets that are somewhat less supply-constraints like Atlanta and Dallas you might get into the mid-6s for the very best assets.
And then obviously you tack on some premiums on those cap rates for assets that are not state of the art et cetera et cetera in these markets.
In Europe the very best assets with the longest duration of leases in for example the U.K.
maybe as low as high-5s.
I would say when you get into Central and Eastern Europe and the like you might get into the high-7s and everything is kind of in between for good modern products.
I would say solidly in the high-6s maybe low 7s if you take the extremes out.
Japan is -- the best assets in Tokyo 5.25% when you get to Osaka maybe high-5s If you get into older generation assets who knows maybe they'll be in the low to mid-6s.
China we used to think they were in 7s.
We've seen some comps now in the 6s based on what people have paid for assets.
I would have to say 6s today.
Brazil it used to be 10% or 11%.
Today.
It's come to 8.5% maybe.
Mexico is probably mid-7s to 8%.
So I don't think -- and Canada which is really Toronto I would say it's like the best markets in the U.S.
so mid-5s.
Specifically our land bank in Mexico let me ask Gene to answer that but let me make a commentary about land bank generally.
And I've said this before and I think we've finally gotten to that time.
That land bank is worth a lot of money.
That land is good land not all of it by the way some of it -- some portion of it was actually is a lot of acres but not a lot of value maybe $150 million to $200 million of it is not that great.
But the rest of it is pretty good land in really good markets and I think you guys are going to perceive that as a real competitive advantage for this company going forward.
I certainly do.
Gene Mexico? Yes sure.
So we had a large land bank in Mexico and I'd point out a couple of things here.
One is that majority of this is in population centers where the markets are good and we're actually very active with development right now.
We do have some land bank exposure in the border markets which have been weaker but are actually recovering pretty well.
There's actually very strong manufacturing growth right now in Juarez and Tijuana.
And while overall these markets are nowhere near at the point where we'd spec we think we're actually going to see some [indiscernible] activity there sooner than we expect.
And then finally we have a Private Capital vehicle in place with our AFORES fund in Mexico which does development and we contribute land to that vehicle and execute development.
We have several projects underway right now.
So you will not see us monetizing land through sales anytime soon in Mexico but you will see us monetizing a lot of land through development.
And I just want to make a general comment about valuations in Europe.
When you think about our European platform again Hamid mentioned that we've got 90% of our assets in the strongest market that is absolutely a fact.
When you think about current valuations peach crop values in the U.S.
declined 1% to 30% decline and it recovered 90% of that decline.
Europe value is still about 40% they have not really recovered at all.
So if you think about it in another way if you take a look at our current stock price and value the U.S.
and Asia at our cap rates you'll be valuing Europe at about a 10.5% cap which is well above sort of the doomsday predictions we saw around Lehman the expectation that was set for the U.S.
in 2009 and we sort of all saw how that worked out.
So we actually believe that the markets are pricing in a multiple of a breakup scenario of the euro into our stock price already.
Your next question comes from Jeff Spector with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jamie Feldman here with Jeff.
I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about the supply side.
I know you kind of touched on it in a question before but we are hearing that a lot of the private developers have partnered up with deep pockets here end even if capital markets tighten up they'll continue to be able to build.
So how concerned are you about new supply weighing on the recovery given your pretty positive outlook for the demands size? So let's look at the numbers Jamie.
I think for a couple of years we've been going along at 20 million to 30 million feet of development which is essentially 0.
20 million to 30 million square feet of development in the U.S.
which is essentially 0 particularly when you look at the obsolescence factor.
Even at 0.5% of base you're looking at 50 million 60 million feet a year of obsolescence.
So we haven't built anywhere near to just hold it steady.
So the fact that development volumes have maybe doubled from that or could have tripled from that we'll take an extreme still mean that you're just building to obsolescence.
Secondly you just heard from us and probably every other call you're on that large buildings are only 2% 3% vacant.
And there are -- definitely the tenants are growing.
We need big buildings.
So I wouldn't be surprised at all of that build-to-suit volume would match what that need is.
And by the way financing if you have a good credit tenant in tow financing gets a lot easier all of a sudden so the private developers particularly those that are prepared to work for no margins can put of up those buildings for the bigger buildings with precommitment.
So my expectation is that development bonds will go up and -- but I think demand is pretty strong too.
So I don't see a situation where we get into 200 million to 250 million feet of demand and 300 million feet of supply anytime soon.
I think supply will lag demand and that will chew up vacancy until we get to the 7% or 8% range.
And in industrial 7% or 8% vacancy range really means 4% to 5% vacancy because there's a couple of points that's obsolete or it's in the wrong place or it's in Detroit and so will never lease.
So that's our quick take on the -- we're not that excited about the volume of development that's coming online.
It's pretty predictable and it's driven by a lot of these larger tenants.
Your next question comes from Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
Just a quick follow-up.
You alluded to someone that's -- opening comments about how you're not giving up rental rates for occupancy especially in Europe.
I was wondering if you could provide a little more color on that and maybe year-to-date or second quarter if you could differentiate your leasing spreads between the various regions? Yes I guess generally to respond to the question we are not giving up rate to build occupancy.
And with respect to what our spreads are where it's headed we've talked a lot about this in the past.
If you look at the trailing 4-quarter average we get a very very predictable glide path to positive territory and I think we've been saying that sort of the end of this year the beginning of next year for several quarters.
There's a bid asked between Hamid and me when that takes place.
But it's going to be in a [indiscernible].
So far he's winning but it's going to be in a relatively tight box.
We are going to get there.
If you look at fundamentals in the markets you have positive rent growth in most of our markets at this point.
Some are more positive than others.
But at this point the winds are really at our back.
So we're not having to buy occupancy.
If you look at this year we've had very little ROE in the second half and hopefully we can make some more progress on rent growth.
And Ki Bin with respect to Europe as Hamid said in his opening comments I mean we gave up the lowest amount of ROE per continent in Europe this year.
It was less than 2% and where we are giving it up is like Gene said earlier in the smaller spaces the bigger spaces we're actually seeing rental growth.
So I think we are on the same sort of glide path in Europe as we are in the U.S.
probably 6 months delayed in Europe from the U.S.
because we went into the downturn afterwards.
But still exactly the same glide path.
Your next question comes from Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just two quick follow-ups.
Tom just in terms of the sources and uses.
If you think about the $10 billion of dispositions in the 10-quarter plan.
By memory I thought that that was about 8.5 net base degree of what you would retain through the contribution.
And then that 8.5 would then be used call about $2 billion for development funding $1 billion for your share of acquisitions and the remaining $5.5 billion for debt repayment.
And I'm wondering; a is that still sort of good numbers to use; b in relation to John Guinee's question should we be thinking about a potential tax leakage in any of those numbers? And then secondly just as a second question.
In terms of the development yields that you're quoting what would those be on historical land basis? I'll take the first part of that.
So those numbers are still good estimates Michael for our 10-quarter plan.
I do want to point out though the $10 billion that are irons in the fire that is not all of the 10-quarter plan.
There are other disposition activity for example that's not in that number and there's some other contribution activity that's not in that number that we plan on working on in 2013.
So those are good numbers but the $10 billion is actually higher.
It's more like $12 billion so when you -- and then when you look at our share our share should be roughly around 70% of all of that.
It will vary by quarter just because of the mix of what transactions happen.
So it's difficult to say what our share is going to be of the activity for the second half of the year.
But for the aggregate of the plan it should be around 70%.
The 10-quarter plan is not everything we're never going to do in terms of moving the pieces of the portfolio around.
It's just that that's what we thought we would accomplish in the first 10 quarters following the closing of the merger.
Our ultimate list as Tom mentioned is larger.
I would say our deployment in straight acquisitions is lower than planned.
So our net liquidity generation will be higher than planned because of that.
But most of our acquisitions were going to be in funds anyway.
So on our share it's not as big an impact as it would be on the development activity because more of the development activity is our share.
So we got -- the takeaway is I think by the way on the tax leakage issue I think the question -- the answer is no there's not going to be tax leakage.
And your takeaway should be that we've got a lot more activity out there that we can pull the trigger on than what we need to execute on our 10-quarter plan and we're -- as result of that some of the confidence that you see from us is that we do know we have all these different irons to make our plan so.
The second question was on margins.
We see -- every Monday we sit in investment committee and we look at the development proposals and the like coming through and the margins look great on an impaired basis and my number one question is how are we making money based on the historical land trusts? [ph] And the truth of the matter is some are breakeven some we make money.
For example in Miami we make money on our historical land bases.
We got -- because our land unimpaired is still in pretty good value and in some places we were losing kind of 20% margin based on historical value because we just simply bought land at the peak of the market in 2006 and 2007.
So it varies all over the place.
But if I were going to pick a number I would say the margins are in the very low single digits based on historical value and into the high teens based on impaired value today.
And I think those numbers will go up based on impaired value.
Your next question comes from Jeff Spector with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> It's Jamie again.
Hamid I was just hoping there's a way to quantify the level of demand you're seeing.
I mean you definitely sound pretty bullish here on the prospects.
I mean can you maybe compare it to last cycles or maybe some square footage numbers around just how deep is the leasing pipeline across your regions? Okay.
So let me just level with that.
We'll let you stand and bear -- if Lehman moment is 1 and the peak of 2007 of craziness is 10 In the U.S.
I'm kind of feeling it's 6 to a 7 so I'm not outrageously bullish like an 8 to 10 I'm a 6 to a 7 okay? But remember where we've come from.
We've come from 1 going to 2 to 3 to 4.
So it feels pretty good right now okay? And I'm saying even where sort of 7-ish last quarter we're maybe 6.5 now.
I'm feeling a little less bullish than last quarter because of all the same papers that you read.
But actually what I see in the portfolio is still pretty consistent with what's going on last quarter.
So that's that way I would describe the business.
Now let's put some context.
In the '90s the peak years had 250 million to 300 million feet of absorption and 300 million feet of development in the U.S.
And by the way the U.S.
is the only place that there are decent enough statistics that make it worthwhile to talk about.
The other numbers are not reliable.
And here we are at I don't know 50 million 75 million feet of development may be this year and 150 million feet on absorption.
And I think obsolescence is 40 million 50 million feet anyway.
So I think you're going to see vacancy rates continue to march down from where they are to probably 7% to 8% within the next 2 years.
And that's when you get real pricing power.
We already have pricing power in some of the really good markets: Miami LA Houston those are markets that we have serious pricing power.
We don't yet have pricing power in Atlanta but it's getting better.
So -- and by the way we shouldn't feel really great about all this.
It feels a lot better than the last couple of years.
But my God we're still 20% below peak rate to rents and they don't make any more industrial land and communities don't want more industrial land.
So I don't know when it is and I don't know when the worm is going to turn really.
But if you take a 3 to 4-year outlook and I know in these calls we tend to focus on quarters not years.
I'm pretty bullish that the level of rents in industrial real estate is going to be significantly higher than it has been.
Only just to recover back to its mid-2000 levels no great shakes nothing to get too excited about.
But I think because of that I'm optimistic about the prospects to our portfolio.
So that was the last question.
Let me thank you for participating in the call and I just want you to take away the following couple of things that we tried to communicate in this call.
The macro economy environment has weakened a little bit but our operations are exceeding our expectations.
Look for a particular strengthening in the Americas and continue the outperformance in Europe.
We'll continue to exercise a patient and deliberate approach to achieving our 10-quarter plan with respect to realigning the portfolio strengthening our financial position streamlining our Private Capital business and improving asset utilization by the end of '13.
And while we're focused on these strategic priorities which are the same ones we announced at the time of the merger we are also well-positioned to stay opportunistic flexible and very focused on growth initiatives.
So with that let us sign off and we look forward to seeing many of you at the investor event in September.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon everyone.
My name is Sarah and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome you all to the Prologis Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I'd now like to the call over to our host Ms.
Tracy Ward.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Sarah and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our third quarter 2012 conference call.
The supplemental document is available on our website at prologis.com under Investor Relations.
This morning we will hear from Hamid Moghadam Chairman and Co-CEO who will comment on the macroeconomy and market condition; and then from Tom Olinger CFO who will cover results and guidance.
Additionally we are joined today by members of our executive team including Walt Rakowich; Gary Anderson; Mike Curless; Nancy Hemmenway; Guy Jaquier; Ed Nekritz; and Gene Reilly.
Before we begin our prepared remarks I'd like to quickly state that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements under Federal securities laws.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates and projections about the market and the industry in which Prologis operates as well as management's beliefs and assumptions.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and actual operating results may be affected by a variety of factors.
For a list of those factors please refer to the forward-looking statement notice in our 10-K or SEC filings.
I'd like also to state that our third quarter results press release and supplemental do contain financial measures such as FFO and EBITDA that are non-GAAP measures.
And in accordance with Reg G we have provided reconciliation to those measures.
[Operator Instructions] Hamid will you please begin? Thank you Tracy.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter call.
Let me start by saying how pleased I am with our results which are the strongest for our company since the start of the global financials crisis.
We'll keep our prepared remarks brief as you just heard from us last month at our investor forum.
Our focus today will be on the macroeconomy realtime market conditions and our operating results.
First let me offer some observations at the economic indicators that most affect our business.
Global trade volumes remain well above peak and the IMF forecast growth of over 3% for this year and 4.5% for 2013.
Consumption is strong with retail sales coming in at over 5.5% year-over-year and online sales growing 3x faster.
Real inventories have increased with an annual rate of 3% this year.
Interestingly inventories are the only major economic indicator that remains low peak by about 3%.
We think there is ample room for growth in inventories as consumer confidence improves.
The increase in consumption and the rebuilding of inventories is translating into further improvement in the operating environment.
Net absorption in the U.S.
was positive for the quarter at 20 million square feet.
While this is slightly below our forecast it's worth noting that new supply also came in below our forecast.
Deliveries in the quarter represented a fraction of the obsolescence rate.
For the fourth quarter we expect a healthy level of absorption around 50 million square feet which is in line with normal seasonal patterns.
Looking to 2013 we expect 160 million square feet of total absorption.
Next year's forecast may prove to be conservative as it doesn't account for a housing recovery which appears to be in its early stages.
In terms of what we're hearing from our customers the majority of our global markets customers are confident about their prospects for the fourth quarter.
We think this bodes well for the holiday season.
As they look to 2013 our customers continue to focus on operating efficiencies and growth from e-commerce.
Same-day delivery may be coming sooner than we all thought.
Space utilization is very high and the simple fact is that the number of our customers are no longer able to delay the business around space procurement.
They're at the point of needing to press forward with new facilities and we're seeing this in our high-level build-to-suit activity.
Turning now to our third quarter results our teams around the globe did an outstanding job leasing a record 39 million square feet in our operating and development portfolios.
A real bright spot has been leasing in units less than 100 000 feet.
Occupancy in these smaller spaces was up 80 basis points in the quarter and 270 basis points year-over-year.
This segment is closely tied to the housing market.
Growing demand and increases in occupancy are also having a positive impact on rent.
In fact we expect rents on rollover to turn positive in the next quarter and remain positive throughout most if not all of 2013.
The lack of supply and increasing rents are driving our development starts especially for larger buildings.
During the quarter we started 10 new projects globally 2/3 of which were build-to-suits.
Our margins on year-to-date starts are roughly 19%.
While we don't expect to sustain this level of profitability over the cycle these trends clearly support the value of our land make.
Of course as conditions improve new competitors will enter the markets we already serve.
This will be challenging for them because the global markets have high barriers to entry.
Lending policy changes such as Dodd-Frank and the new Basel III will require incremental capital charges that are up to 50% higher for real estate construction loans relative to traditional corporate lending.
In fact we are already seeing lenders adopt these new risk-based capital rules with more conservative lending standards.
Changes in lending policies will impact new deliveries.
We believe this cycle will be different as these new lending requirements will place a governor on overbuilding by merchant developers who simply won't be able to secure funding for new construction.
Turning to dispositions and contributions.
As we mentioned on our last call the fourth quarter will be a busy time for us as we have a number of packages on the market.
We're making good progress and Tom will elaborate on that in a minute.
Looking at Private Capital during the quarter we completed an important milestone with PEPR by taking 100% ownership of the fund.
Our team is making progress recapitalizing our European portfolio.
We also concluded Prologis North America Fund 11 by disposing of the remaining asset in the fund.
This brings our total of funds rationalized to 7 since the close of the merger.
To sum up we had an outstanding third quarter and we have an excellent momentum heading into the end of the year.
With that I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Hamid.
This morning I'll cover 3 topics.
First a recap of our third quarter results; second a review of our disposition and contribution activity; and third an update on our guidance for the remainder of the year.
Before I begin I'd like to point out new disclosure in our supplemental related to pro rata or look-through balance sheet NOI and EBITDA data.
While we've always disclosed debt on a look-through basis as I mentioned at our investment forum we think this enhanced disclosure will help you further understand our capital structure and earnings drivers.
Now let's look at our results.
Core FFO for the third quarter was $0.49 a share and included a tax benefit of approximately $0.06 a share.
We have forecasted the tax benefit to only be $0.03 a share in line with what we reported last year the tax benefit related to certain contributions from previous years and we do not expect to recognize any similar significant benefits going forward.
Excluding the tax benefit core FFO was $0.43 a share about $0.01 ahead of our expectations due primarily to higher NOI driven by better-than-expected occupancy rents and favorable FX.
I'd like to point out that this quarter represented the first period of year-over-year results for the combined company so going forward we'll have comparable results.
Moving to our operating portfolio metrics occupancy at the end of the quarter was 93.1% up 70 basis points sequentially and 210 basis points year-over-year.
Occupancy in the Americas was up 110 basis points with strong leasing activity across a majority of our markets particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area Eastern Pennsylvania Dallas and Mexico City.
Notably we have seen a pickup in demand in the border markets of Mexico for the first time in a few years.
In Europe occupancy was essentially flat.
Given our visibility into leased but not yet occupied spaces we expect our occupancy in Europe to increase in the fourth quarter.
Leasing activity was a record for the quarter at 39 million square feet which is about 5 million square feet higher than our quarterly average.
Same-store rents change on rollover decreased 1.8% for the third quarter.
The significant year-over-year occupancy gains combined with low rent roll downs led to an increase in both GAAP and capped same-store NOI in the quarter of 2.7% and 3% respectively.
On the capital deployment front we committed $620 million of capital in the quarter of which $483 million was our share.
Total deployment included $386 million of development starts $112 million of building acquisitions and $122 million of land and infrastructure.
Moving to capital sources.
In the third quarter we completed $174 million of disposition and contributions of which $141 million was our share.
On the balance sheet front the third quarter was a push relative to sources and users.
The increase in our debt metrics this quarter relates to movements in foreign currency.
Absent the FX movement our LTV and debt to EBITDA metrics were essentially flat.
As we discussed previously we have several initiatives underway in the capital sources front.
I'd like to spend a minute and provide an update on the different components of dispositions and contributions currently in process.
First dispositions.
Our 10 quarter plan which we updated at the investor's forum contemplates our share of total dispositions of $3.4 billion.
Today we've completed about $1.6 billion our share.
As we mentioned last quarter we brought a number of packages to market setting up for a busy fourth quarter.
We're currently working on about $1 billion of gross dispositions.
We expect to sell place under contract or receive offers on over 90% of these transactions by the end of this month.
This is part of our global and regional market investment strategy and relates principally to non-strategic assets in the U.S.
but also in Europe and Japan.
Next contributions.
Our 10 quarter plan includes our share of contributions to existing funds of $2.2 billion.
To date we've completed more than $800 million on an our-share basis.
The remaining contributions relates to funds in Europe and Latin America where the vast majority of the investment capacity for the contributions is in place.
The final component of our 10 quarter plan is contributions to new funds or ventures.
Our share of contributions to planned new ventures or funds is $6.1 billion which is primarily made up of the recapitalization efforts underway in Europe and Japan.
The activities in our 10 quarter plan thus far have basically allowed us to sell fund development and other investments as well as consolidate NA2 earlier in the year on a leveraged neutral basis.
The balance of our fourth quarter and 2013 10 quarter plan activity is what will drive deleveraging.
Let's now move to guidance for the remainder of 2012.
Based on our performance year-to-date and our expectations for the fourth quarter we're increasing our full year core FFO to $1.72 to $1.74 per share up from $1.64 to $1.70 per share.
From a foreign currency standpoint we're assuming an average euro rate of 1.3 and an average yen rate of 80 for the fourth quarter.
For operations we're forecasting to be at the high end of both our 2012 same-store NOI guidance of 1% to 2% as well as the high end of our year-end occupancy range of 93% to 93.5%.
As Hamid mentioned we believe we've reached the end of lease roll downs and expect rent change on rollover to turn a positive within the next quarter.
On the expense side we will likely come in at the top end of our annual net G&amp;A guidance of $213 million.
However we could be slightly above this level depending on the timing and nature of the disposition and contribution activity in the fourth quarter.
For capital deployment we're increasing full year forecast to $1.9 billion to $2.1 billion with our overall share of total expected investment to be about 70%.
Deployment includes $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion of development starts primarily in the Americas and Japan up from $1.1 billion to $1.4 billion.
And we're narrowing our acquisitions guidance to $450 million to $550 million with majority of the activity related to our current investment ventures in the Americas.
Turning to contributions and dispositions we're maintaining our annual range of $3.5 billion to $7 billion.
As I mentioned earlier we have a lot of activity on this front.
Excluding the dispositions and contributions activity already completed through the third quarter we're left with a range of $2.2 billion to $5.7 billion for the fourth quarter.
As we previously stated this activity can vary significantly based on the recapitalization of the Europe and Japan operating assets.
If one of these transactions happens in the fourth quarter we could be at the high end of our guidance while if neither happens we could be slightly below the low end of our guidance.
That being said we continue to feel good about completing the 10 quarter plan by the end of 2013.
Our share of the contribution and disposition proceeds will range from 60% to 75% depending on the mix of transactions.
We continue to remain disciplined and patient and will only complete transactions that makes sense in terms of valuation and structure and that is what ultimately drives timing.
In closing we feel great about the quarter.
Operating fundamentals continue to improve and we remain focused on our strategic priorities to further strengthen our balance sheet and position our platform for continued growth.
With that I'll turn the call back to Hamid.
Thanks Tom.
Before we open the call to your questions I'd like to say a few words about my partner and Co-CEO's Walt Rakowich immeasurable contributions to Prologis over the last 18 years.
As you know Walt is retiring at the end of December.
What you may not know is that this is his 56th earnings call and his last one as a participant.
The REIT industry has evolved in the 18 years since Walt joined the company and Walt's steady hand and unwavering commitment have helped pave the road to success for our organization.
His sense of commitment was evident in 2008 when he came back from retirement to lead the company through its darkest days.
He did a heck of a job turning things around made a lot of tough decisions in the face of adversity.
Walt is a standup guy and a class act and I can't think of anyone else who I'd like to have been paired up with to lead this company over the last few years.
He let the integration of the company following the merger and he did an outstanding job leading the charge to regain full control of PEPR's assets allowing us to recapitalize our Europe platform ahead of schedule.
It's a little early because he's going to be around for a couple more months but I know that I speak on behalf of the entire Prologis family when I wish him the very best.
We're pleased to know that he will now be able to spend more time on his philanthropic endeavors and of course with his family.
Walt you want to say a few words? Thanks Hamid.
Well I know we are all here to talk about earnings so I will be brief.
But I just want to thank all the investors and the analysts that have supported the company and supported what we've done over the years and I'm looking forward to seeing you all at NAREIT one last time.
And I'd also like to thank our people from legacy Prologis people to the new Prologis people that have really made our success a reality.
But Hamid I got to tell you it has been great working with you over the last 2 years in this journey.
And you have done an incredible job and I'm going to just say very brief I'm very very proud to have been your partner.
Very very proud.
So thank you and let's turn it over to get some questions asked here.
Thanks.
Sarah if we can open up for questions that would be great.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Brendan Maiorana of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question I guess probably related to Tom I just wanted to dive into the end disposition outlook a little bit that implied guidance for the back half of the year 2 point -- or for the fourth quarter rather $2.2 billion to $5.7 billion.
Can you give us a sense of one how close do you feel you are on either getting a European transaction done which may move you more to the midpoint or higher end of that guidance? And then two if you look at what I think is roughly $2 billion of asset sales or dispositions outside of either Europe or Japan how should we think about the likely cap rates and the timing of those dispositions and how confident you are that they'll close in the fourth quarter? Okay Brandon let me start by answering your questions about Japan and Europe and Tom will answer the question about the balance of the activity.
On Japan I'd just like to give you a somewhat scripted response.
We've been working hard on a Japan recapitalization and in fact have received one of the 2 major licenses required for J-REIT.
Any consideration of a development fund that's secondary to our decision-making on our long-term vehicle in Japan which will probably not happen this year I'm not in a position to comment further on our Japan plans at this time.
So moving on to Europe.
As you know we've actually made progress on controlling PEPR sooner than we thought.
That was always in the very back end of our 2003 '13 10 quarter plan.
And obviously we started the recapitalization process now earlier than we expected.
Unfortunately these things are minor.
You kind of only hear about them when they're done and you really have no sense of how much progress we're making or not making as we work on these things.
So it's kind of difficult for me to comment because we have ongoing dialogue on this topic.
But I feel really good that when you take into account the 2013 10 quarter plan which is what we've laid out that we'll meet not only all our objectives with respect to deleveraging but also our other priorities of realigning our portfolio with our strategy and also getting the asset utilization up.
So -- and I wish I could give you more specifics about that right now but I can't.
Brandon on your question regarding how we feel about our disposition activity and cap rates we feel good about our disposition activity.
The bulk of it's in the U.S.
Cap rates will likely be in the high 6s to around 7.
And that lines up with what our thinking is around our entire 10 Q plan particularly when you think about Japan assets being in the mid to low 5s.
But again we feel good about our disposition activity that is before us.
And as I mentioned we've got about $1 billion in the market 90% of that we think we're going to sell have under contract or select a buyer by the end of this month.
And on the contributions front that's a process we're working through.
But the main point there is that our funds that are taking the contributions which is largely Europe and some of Latin America have the vast majority of the funding.
To complete those transactions it's just a matter of timing of when those contributions happen.
Your next question comes from Chris Caton Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could comment on the leasing environment in CapEx.
The AFFO statement shows a little over $60 million of leasing and maintenance together.
As you’re renewing or releasing properties that were last leased at the trough of the market is there any temporary shift in capital required to secure the rent increases that you're seeing in the portfolio now or expect to see next year? Sure Chris this is Gene.
Let me take that.
I might kick it to Gary.
The short answer is no.
We are not seeing additional GI requirements or other building improvements required to get the spaces leased or to push rents.
And if you look at our stats there's a couple of things to keep in mind.
You see a general uptick in capital as a percentage of NOI but that's driven by seasonality and it's also driven by the fact that we did a ton of leasing during the quarter.
So if you look -- we would expect these numbers to come back into range.
And if you look at the past 4 quarters that's a pretty good guide to what we see going forward.
So you got naturally have an upward trend during the course of the year in capital.
Your next question comes from Jeff Spector Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I'm here with Jamie Feldman.
And just thinking about PLD AMB going forward I'm sure you and Hamid have had some great debates on division strategy.
I guess Hamid can you talk about that a little bit? How has Walt impacted your thoughts about the future strategy the future Prologis here going forward? Jeff it's a good question and the honest answer to it is that while Walt and I are not in agreement on everything all the time but I would say that with respect to our strategy which we've laid out and discussed and fully vetted before the merger was even announced I would say we started out being 95% aligned and the last 5% we worked out.
So it's been a very collaborative effort and I'm going to really miss Walt going forward because he's been a great division to the company and a great sounding board.
The best thing about him is that it is very hard for CEOs to let go.
And Walt has been very supportive without in any way feeling that he needs to get involved in the minutia on a day-to-day basis.
So we sort of figured out what we're each kind of focused on at the beginning we supported one another throughout.
And I'm really going to miss him.
So let me leave it at that.
Your next question comes from Michael Bilerman Citi.
Research Division</strong> I'm just curious.
As you think about the deleveraging plan and the sources for deleveraging.
And obviously there's a lot of irons in the fire in terms of asset sales and contributions.
And I think Tom you actually mentioned that in the Investor Day and you talked a little bit on the call about being disciplined and patient about trying to get the best execution.
I'm curious how you think about your stock in terms of selling equity for a more immediate impact to that deleveraging goal.
And then how you think about selling equity relative to an NAV estimate of 35 to 38 but also a $59 NAV that you put out for 2016.
How you think about selling equity in that context and effectively if that's the view of value you effectively just would never do it because you'd be diluting shareholders that dramatically and reducing that growth.
Then I want to understand how you're thinking about those levers as we move forward.
Michael let me start that and I'll pass it over to Tom.
I think one of the things we try to make very clear in the investor forum was that we have 4 pillars to our strategic plan going forward.
And the 2 pillars that are -- or the 3 pillars that are relevant to your question are our realignment strategy getting our portfolio to align with our strategy of global markets.
That naturally puts us in a position of selling a bunch of assets that are not a fit for the company’s strategy and that produces some capital for the company.
But really the decision is driven by a portfolio realignment goal.
Secondly we want to rationalize our funds and have a risk mitigation measure.
Because we are global company we need to manage our exposure to these foreign currencies.
And the best way of doing that is by using Private Capital vehicles and matching our remaining equity with local debt.
That's the way we neutralize ourselves.
While the formation of Private Capital activity which was really delayed for the last 3 or 4 years post the financial crisis that also produces capital.
But really we have that goal of mitigating risk anyway whether or not we had a deleveraging third pillar.
And then we come down to deleveraging and we have to look at the results of the sale activity the fund formation activity and see where that takes us at the end of the day.
And at the end of the day if we actually accomplish all the things that we've got planned I think our leverage will be actually in the low 20% range lower than our target of 23%.
So to go and issue equity put the pricing aside right now would be a little crazy because that would drive our percentage of leverage even below 23% when we're done with the plan.
And we're not doing anything unnatural with the plan in terms of timing.
I mean we're taking our time and we deliver it and we want to get good execution on that.
So to make a long story short I think the path that we're on will get us there.
But this is not a religious belief.
If at any point in time we see that issuing equity is an attractive alternative for our shareholders -- and by the way the $59 thing that was a 4-year out kind of a number.
I think we've been very clear that our NAV is 35 to 38 and a company like us should be trading with the right balance sheet at the premium to NAV just like all the other blue chip companies.
So you can read that as you will but we think sort of on the upper end of NAV and some premium over that is when even thinking about equity if we needed it it would begin to make sense.
And based on our plan I don't think we need it.
But we'll see how the plan goes.
We're very confident about it.
Tom? To Hamid's point on do we need it I mean clearly from a user standpoint we would not need to issue equity when we look at our development pipeline and our users from that perspective.
It's clearly growing and we're seeing a lot of opportunity.
But even in the face of that growth I don't see a need for us to raise equity because we're going to have more than ample sources from this 10 quarter plan.
And our challenge actually won't be -- it's going to be finding ways to use that additional capital that's coming in that has those additional uses over and above our deployment opportunities and over and above our debt that's maturing.
So from that perspective as well we would not need to raise equity.
Your next question comes from Craig Mailman KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> Jordan Sadler's on the line with me as well.
I was hoping maybe you guys could drill down a little bit more to the expectations on rent spreads turning positive.
Maybe if you can offer any color on the magnitude we're going to see in 4Q and heading into 2013.
And then just a breakdown of which markets you're seeing the best momentum in versus the ones that are going to be the biggest drag going forward.
This is Gene.
I'll start with answering the question.
First of all it is really really difficult to predict this going positive or negative.
So getting much more precise on that wouldn't be a very good idea.
I mean the best way to look at this is what is the trajectory of this line? And we're clearly headed to turning positive.
We think that will happen next quarter.
Frankly when it does happen it may bounce around.
It may go slightly negative.
But it is clearly headed in the right direction.
In terms of individual markets Southern California South Florida parts of New Jersey would clearly be places where we're going to have the opportunity to push rents.
We have extremely high occupancies.
But frankly if you look at some of our regional markets and you can look this up in the supplemental we're really pushing occupancies in these markets as well.
So what we see happening is a broad-based recovery in fundamentals in the Americas and I'll let Gary speak to other geographies.
And outside of the U.S.
Mexico conditions are very very tight and rents are frankly going really fast in Brazil.
So rather than be precise about what happens next quarter I think the really important thing here is what's happening with fundamentals and what will drive a sustainable increase in rents and create an environment where we can frankly push rents really hard going forward into the next year.
Just to underscore what Gene said I mean if you look again at the trailing 4 quarters the trend is very very clear and it's undeniable.
We are headed in the right direction.
We have been heading in the right direction since the second quarter of 2010.
And again I think we all believe that 2003 -- 2013 in the aggregate will be positive.
When you look at Europe again we're sort of bouncing around.
We're in an inflection point in Europe and we're starting to see rent growth in certain of the global markets in certain size ranges.
The global markets where we're seeing traction would be the East and West Midlands London; in Germany would be Hamburg and Cologne.
And we're seeing some traction in actually the south of France and also the south of Poland.
In Asia rents are strong throughout China.
Again we talked last month about China having 8.1% rent growth compounded per year.
And they continue to trend positively.
And in Japan again we're actually seeing rent growth in the Tokyo and Osaka markets particularly in Class A space.
And that rent growth we're seeing is 4% to 6%.
So again we're headed in the right direction and we're highly confident of that for 2013.
The next question comes from Steve Sakwa of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I guess I just wanted to see if you could kind of balance for us the third quarter earnings season is coming in pretty weak for a lot of multinational companies.
I mean some of that is driven by FX but a lot of these companies are missing on the top line and just citing kind of weaker business conditions.
And you mentioned a number of positive things kind of early in your comments and I'm just wondering to what extent some of the factors that are impacting some of these multinationals just haven't really caught up with the fundamentals or do you think there's just something very different about what's impacting your business and what's impacting their business? The latter and let me try to elaborate on that.
We just had our Customer Advisory Board Meeting in Denver about a week and a half ago and we had our global large customers represented there.
These are household names that you've heard of and it usually involves the head of real estate.
And they basically said exactly what you just said.
He said the fundamentals of our business are not great but we are out of space.
And we have kicked the can down the road and kicked the can down the road but there's population growth there's consumption growth.
And while we don't have pricing power on the top line we have needs for space.
And we got to take out costs out of our system and the only way we can take costs out of our system is by revamping our logistics chain.
So that's one thing that makes our business a little different than the other businesses.
The other factor is e-commerce.
A lot of these retailers a lot of these companies are setting up parallel distribution chains for their e-commerce divisions and that's picking up a fair amount of new space.
The part that's missing or has been missing now in terms of a demand driver was the housing market.
And actually based on my reading of your stuff you guy's maybe are even more bullish on that than we are.
But certainly the housing market is turning and that will turn on that last engine that's going to fill up our 100 000 square foot spaces.
So look all you got to do is look around you and the business environment in terms of top line growth for these companies is not strong.
But the need to restructure their supply chain and to take costs out and the fact that they delayed taking space and kicked the can down the road for the last 4 years in the face of almost 12 million more people consumers in the U.S.
than 4 years ago and similar kinds of growth in many of the other regions probably with the exception of Europe is what's leading to our success.
And by the way we didn't have the kind of surge coming out of the downturn that some of the other companies did.
But it was primarily an earnings surge for them.
It wasn't a top line search because really they were taking out their personnel cost and that was driving their bottom line growth.
So top line is anemic.
We're a solution for taking out cost out of the system and they just can't delay it anymore is what we're hearing from these guys.
Your next question comes from David Toti of Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> I'm here with Evan Smith as well.
I have a very quick question.
We're hearing from a number of our broker affiliates from the ground in the U.S.
that port volumes are picking up pretty maturely.
Are you seeing this in the context of your assets and also in the context of sort of mixed messages from both FedEx and UPS especially with regards to the results today? This is Gene.
I'll start and I think others are going to have points of view.
Well port volumes are recorded and they are picking up.
And yes we're seeing that but frankly they've also been volatile.
And the other thing is when you compare what's happening with real trade that will affect demand in our buildings with for example what's FedEx's last commentary on their business they are 2 different things.
We have to be very careful to understand what's happening in terms of a company like FedEx in -- across all their businesses versus what will affect demand and distribution space.
So as Hamid just said a moment ago and we're seeing a lot of demand coming from reinvestment into the supply chain.
And if you think about it we've got a 0 interest rate environment.
Companies have a lot of cash on the balance sheet.
This is probably going to be a pretty weak earnings season.
But where you invest money it can get a very good return on investment by investing into the supply chain.
And frankly for some of them it's really their only alternative of using capital.
So at this point that's pretty meaningful.
Your next question comes from John Stewart of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tom I have a very short 4-part question for you.
Can you please remind us again what -- how much you expect to book in merger costs in the fourth quarter? And then can you please put the tax benefit in layman's terms for us? I presume that was noncash but can you kind of explain what it’s related to and how it worked? Then can you please give us the cash mark-to-market and when you think you'll see the inflection point on a cash basis? And then last but not least just comparing square footages quarter-to-quarter it looks like some of the assets held for sale might be in France so could you address what you expect the cap rates to be on the assets held for sale in France? Okay I will address a couple of those first and then Gene and Mike can help me out.
So on the merger costs we're coming in or we're forecasting $75 million approximately for the full year.
On the tax benefit the tax benefit we realized this quarter was consistent with what we've seen in the past several years in the third quarter.
As tax returns get filed and completed there are true ups that happen.
And the bulk of the true ups or the benefit is coming through really related to contributions activity that happened in the treatment of dividends around those contributions and how you account for those.
And as we true up and finalize our tax returns those true ups surface and we clean them up.
The other important aspect of that is it is noncash but when we built up those reserves there was a cash component to it to the extent that it might relate to interest and the like on dividends.
So -- and it did go to through core FFO and that's why it's being reflected as core FFO now.
So when the reserves were built [indiscernible] core FFO when the reserves are released it comes back through core FFO.
But the important thing here is not so much the mechanics of what happened is we don't expect these to be -- have similar such benefits going forward.
We're really through set contribution period and don't see any more like that.
But it is eventually cash because that's a liability that we do not need to satisfy at this point.
Your next question was on cash mark-to-market.
I'll ask Gene to comment on that.
Yes as we're talking about mark-to-market in terms of our rents I think we've been saying it's pretty much right on top of market rents at the moment.
And it's trending in a positive direction.
Just want to say it's marginally positive.
And that's true of Europe and Asia.
Europe's right on top of mark-to-market.
Japan's under-rented and China's significantly under-rented today.
And then John your last question was on the held for sale pool in France but as you know we won't comment on any transaction until it happens.
So once we close the transaction we'll talk to you about cap rates in general.
Your next question comes from Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm here with Gabe Hilmoe.
These are questions unrelated.
The first is it looks like you booked about $20 million of merger acquisition and integration expenses in the quarter.
Just curious what those were given that there's already been some distance since the merger occurred.
The second question relates to the leasing CapEx.
Looks like it's ticked up in a trailing 4-quarter basis up to 12.7% of your NOI.
Or maybe expressed differently you're now spending $1.50 per square foot in TIs.
I'm curious does that relate at all to the higher retention rate? Are you consciously selling out and putting a little more capital out the door upfront or is that merely a coincidence? 9 Ross this is Tom.
I'll take the merger acquisition piece first.
It's really a function of timing this quarter.
It's 2 pieces.
One is just as people are leaving the company that's triggering certain merger costs.
And people are winding down in Q3 as well as Q4.
There's also some restructuring that we talked about last quarter that is happening in our European finance organization.
That's a piece of it.
And then there's some professional costs as well that are higher this quarter.
And that's a little bit to do with the European finance restructuring and also the closeout.
As you know we brought PEPR in-house this quarter and we fully -- there are some costs related to that as well.
Okay Ross let me try to answer the rollover costs.
We leased 39 million square feet this quarter.
And if you look at our portfolio of 565 million feet or whatever it is and look at an average lease term which today is about 5 years that is the normal level of rollover and leasing.
It should be a little under 30 million feet.
So when we calculate those costs per square foot we're dividing them by the entire portfolio.
So because we're leasing 20% more space there are going to be more leasing costs in this quarter compared to a quarter where leasing activity is actually lower not in a per square foot basis but on a percentage of NOI basis because it's a percentage of the entire NOI.
If you actually look at the trends on a per square foot of leasing they bounce around but they're not trending up.
They were lower then they picked up and now they're ticking lower.
There's a seasonality to this because there's a lot of leasing in the fourth quarter that's month to month and those leases virtually have no TIs.
They're all on an as-is basis.
So while you do get some volatility in December but if you look at the annual numbers and compare them even though we don't have comparable numbers it doesn't seem to us that there's anything going on.
The other thing I would add to that is when you look at the leasing and turnover cost in terms of term that we're leasing the cost on a per term basis is actually down.
So we're not behind occupancy at any -- from any perspective.
I mean our costs are actually trending down on a per term basis.
Your next question comes from John Guinee of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First Walt we are really going to miss you.
Second the way it looks to me Tom is that you're basically implying about a $0.40 per share FFO in the fourth quarter.
And with all these asset sales you're probably going to be trending down a little bit in 2013 which I think is all well and good.
But the big issue is that the primary valuation metric for PLD is implied cap or premium discount to NAV.
Can you talk a little bit about how you're managing the dispositions such that your implied cap rate doesn't decline at all as you have $4 billion $5 billion worth of asset sales? And you're continually looking at this on a going forward basis I'm assuming.
John this is Hamid.
We actually are not that smart to manage the timing of disposition.
We have a pretty robust process for determining what assets are strategic and what are not and it started out with a sort of global regional other market exercise.
And then within the global markets we looked at trimming our portfolio.
So we have a sell list of what we want to sell over the first couple of years post merger.
If anything we've actually made better progress on that than we expected to because the markets have been good for selling assets and we've been selling more assets as we've had success in the marketplace.
So we don't really try to time it with respect to "Oh if we sell these assets the cap rate looks high this quarter and maybe that will hit our NAV maybe later." We're just getting it done.
Obviously the assets we're selling and we'll report on the aggregate number and see it in our supplemental are the lower quality assets in our portfolio.
We've been very explicit about that.
So whatever -- the direction of cap rates in the company on the assets that remain will be going down because we're selling the high cap rate assets out the back.
So you should expect that trend -- in a static cap rate world our cap rate should go down over time because the portfolio is getting higher quality every day.
And if you really want have a discussion about cap rates we'd be happy to sit down and tell you what we think cap rates are market by market.
It'd probably take too long to do it on this call.
But we have very clear views on that.
And I think we're responsible for if not half probably 1/3 of the product that's being put on the market and being sold.
So we kind of know what's going on in the market with respect to real estate sales.
And the market is very good.
John from a standpoint of run rate if you look at the midpoint of our full year guidance which is $1.73 that implies we did $1.32 year-to-date.
So that would imply $0.41 for Q4 to that midpoint.
And it is a lower run rate than what we experienced in Q3 net of the deferred taxes.
And it really is a function of the lumpiness that we're going to see regarding contributions and distributions.
No it's not -- unfortunately it's not a straight line and we're going to have ebbs and flows in Q3 with a lower quarter.
We expect Q4 to be a much bigger quarter.
And so there is some dilution in there namely with our ability to redeploy the proceeds in the most accretive way not just paying down the line but also being able to put it into new developments and the like and waiting for more higher interest rate debt to mature.
Let me give you one more thought on a way to think about dilution which is I think your question.
Basically we know what activity we're going to do in terms of dispositions and fund formations and we've given you ranges on the plan and that's what we're executing.
And if you put timing aside a little bit we know what kind of debt we're going to get to to repay preferreds and all that kind of stuff over time.
And depending on the timing of those those could be breakeven or they could be 200 kind of basis points to the bad depending on whether we're selling high-cap assets and retiring low-cost debt in a given quarter or something.
But that's not where the major dilution numbers are going to come from.
The major dilution number or accretion number is going to come up -- come out with how much land we monetize because the incremental return on our development pipeline is very high because the land is earning a negative return in terms of carrying cost and property taxes and all that.
So the more of our land that we put into build-to-suit or our production the quicker or the less dilution we have and maybe we can have accretion if we put a lot of it to work.
The message we hope that you take away from this call is that actually our build-to-suit business is going really really well and it's really picked up.
Your next question comes from Michael Bilerman of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Tom just a couple of quick follow-ups.
I definitely appreciate the pro rata information on income statement balance sheet.
Do you have just the first one just same-store NOI on a pro rata see through basis? Obviously 2.7% is everything altogether that's number one.
Number two is just on the merger expenses which you've talked about little bit on this call.
You obviously say it a lot this quarter.
You have you said $75 million for the year which is $22.5 million for the fourth quarter.
We're up to about $210 million of expenses.
My memory which is a little bit weak but I think it was like $175 $200 of target when you guys announced the merger.
And so I'm just curious are we -- after the fourth quarter is it ending? Because now we're at $210 relative to that original budget so that's number two.
Number three was just on rent growth.
I want to -- when you talk about rent spreads turning positive next year is there any rent growth built into that assumption for 2013? And the last question is just on Page 36.
You have an adjustment of straight-line rents and amortization of lease intangibles which is a positive $15 million.
Can you break that out between what is current which you disclosed as being negative $4 million? Is the balance everything related to the development pipeline as a positive adjustment? Michael so on the same-store NOI look through I don't have that...
And let me just say this.
We don't actually track it that way.
Culturally would be a really bad thing to do.
With respect to operating statistics of our portfolio we have the one-portfolio policy.
And whether it's in funds or balance sheets our operating people responsible for delivering that performance are judged and measured by the overall results not what they do for the funds versus the balance sheet.
So we don't even keep track of it that way and culturally it would be a really bad signal to keep track of it that way.
But Michael I wouldn't -- we can get you that number.
I wouldn't expect it to be materially different than what we reported in any meaningful way just given the mix of assets.
And particularly given the strength in U.S.
I would actually expect it might be a little higher given the proportion of U.S.
On merger costs we're done at the end of 2012 with merger costs.
And what's happening in relation to our regional estimate it's really 2 things.
I guess 3 -- 2 things.
The first is when we originally gave that guidance we hadn't contemplated the PEPR cost that's one.
And the second piece of it is we just have higher costs related to personnel.
And it's a function of 2 things.
One more synergies more people that we had redundant positions than we originally estimated so that's a good thing.
It clearly drove our merger savings higher but there was a cost to that.
And the second piece was the financial reorg we're doing in Europe.
So those pieces would make up the majority of the delta over our original estimate.
And again timing will close that out on -- at the end of 2012.
Your last question regarding straight-line rent again I don't have that memory but we can break that out for you.
Your next question comes from Michael Salinsky of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Hamid I think you mentioned that you expect a little bit more -- you expect the margins to come in a little bit in your earlier comments.
And also just looking out to the fourth quarter there you talked a lot about e-retailing.
How are you looking at inventory build on the retail side right now? Have you seen a normal build there or has that been a bit light? No I think it's still light compared to -- we're going to a choppy market.
There's an election.
There's a fiscal cliff.
Three's all the stuff that you read about in the paper so I think people are not getting over to excuse with respect to the amount of inventory they're going to carry in the chain.
Having said that I think consumer confidence is a lot stronger than most people would've guessed given all these headwinds.
So I think we'll see.
I think these guys are going to have a pretty good Christmas.
And we may get caught pretty short on inventory into the new year.
But that's a guess.
I'm not an expert.
You guys know more about that stuff than I do.
Margins? Oh margins.
Margins -- look our land bank has gone from my getting a lot of questions about is it worth any sense [ph] of what you're carrying here to how much more than what you're carrying it is its worth.
I mean clearly a 19% margin will tell you that our land cost basis aggregate is low because normal margins shouldn't be 19%.
I think normal margins should be 14% 15% for spec products and maybe 10% 12% for build-to-suit.
And the 19% is not the most impressive number.
The 19% given the mix of build-to-suits was actually pretty impressive but it just means that the land may be mispriced in a different way than people think.
Your next question comes from Brendan Maiorana.
LLC Research Division</strong> Hamid a question.
I just want to follow up on the land.
I heard the comments earlier that development seems like it is -- it's improving the outlook is improving the margins are high and you mentioned I think in an earlier response to a question that land is going to drive earnings growth just given that it's a negative carry today.
But you did start development during the quarter but there was about $90 million of land acquisitions and $90 million of land monetized through development.
When do you think that calculation starts to whittle your land balance down that you monetize land more than what you buy? So I think as we laid out in our investor forum I think a company our size that thinks that the opportunities are in the world in a normal year about $2.5 billion needs to have about $1.5 billion of land around.
And we now have about $2 billion of land around.
So over time and I would say 3 4 years we'll get our land bank down to where it needs to be.
But it's going -- where it needs to be is about $1.5 billion.
So it's not materially lower than what it is today.
Now the reason land goes up is that when you put land into production you have to put infrastructure into it and that counts as land.
So land going up in the short term -- we bought a few parcels particularly for some of our build-to-suits.
For example we bought some adjacent parcels to some parcels that we have because the build-to-suit that we procured needed more land than we had.
And more importantly we put infrastructure into the land and that drives up the cost.
So as you wrap up your development activity your land number is actually going to go up because of infrastructure before it starts coming down.
But we are pretty confident that we are on a good path.
And if you take a 3 4 5-year view we'll get down to where the land should be.
Mike? I think it would be important to add we are in very select situations reloading our development machine with buying select parcels in places like Paris Tokyo and L.A.
But of all the land we bought this year it's important to note that some 85% of that land will be put into production by 2013.
So we are buying it but putting it very quickly back into production.
In fact 1/2 of the land we bought this year will be in production by the end of this year.
Your next question comes from Michael Mueller JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the question what part of the 10-quarter plan do you think is -- maybe the right term isn't the riskiest but yes call it the riskiest to pull off by the end of 2013? Is it raising the capital in Europe? Is it raising the capital in Japan? Is it finding buyers for noncore stuff in the Americas? The risk is part of the plan.
In terms of timing or in terms of actually getting done? Research Division</strong> Yes getting done in the time frame you were talking about.
By 2013? I don't see it being risky.
I don't -- I'm not trying to be Pollyannaish but I don't see a whole lot of risk in executing it during the entire 10 quarter plan.
I think if you're asking me what part of them will happen in the fourth quarter and what part of it will happen in the second quarter next year or first going next year I think there's a lot of volatility around that.
And I got to tell you we've got to really be careful about those kinds of motivations not driving us to do silly deals which we won't.
So if we're all patient take a deep breath we'll get there and we'll get there -- we'll more than get there I think by the end of this plan.
Your next question comes from Jeff Spector Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jamie Feldman here with Jeff.
I guess my first part of my question is just a follow-up to that prior question.
How are you guys thinking about the risk from the fiscal cliff and what seems to be generally slowing business decision-making on both your fourth quarter expectations and full year for next year for the 10 quarter plan? And then my actual question is actually following up Hamid you commented you think new lending requirements might hold back new development this cycle.
I was hoping you could give maybe some examples of that or a little more color on what you mean and across what markets.
Okay on the fiscal cliff and all the economic headwinds all I can tell you is what our customers are telling us and what they're telling us is that they don't have a lot of pricing power that their top line growth is anemic they're selling more units but not with a lot of pricing power.
So their margins are under pressure and supply chain is the key to them actually maintaining margin or slowing down its erosion.
So it's not like they want to spend money on more real estate but they kind of got to to maintain the unit flows that they're dealing with even at lower margins.
That's the essence of what we're hearing from our customers.
And the second part -- spending.
Oh yes.
Actually I was talking to a couple of lenders at ULI last week and it was interesting.
They are -- most of the big lenders are already operating under Basel III with respect to these capital charges even though they're not required to be.
And boy the mass of it is very punitive on construction lending.
All construction lending is recoursed.
The loan-to-value ratios are 60% to 65% with recourse to the best borrowers.
I mean the matches doesn't work for a private guy trying to put 35% 40% equity into a deal to do a spec deal at a low margin.
So I think it's going to be pretty tough to build a new building.
In fact there was an article I think in the Wall Street Journal today in the Journal that the bankers are screaming and they're going for some relief to the regulators to try to loosen this up a little bit.
But the way it's structured now I don't think you're going to see supply coming on board the way it has in previous cycles which is really good for us.
Okay that was the last question.
So thank you for being here.
And let me just leave you with 3 key takeaways.
First we had a great quarter and we're making excellent progress on our strategic priorities.
Second the main drivers of the recent uptick in demand are lack of construction supply chain reconfiguration and growth in consumption all the things we've just talked about.
Third the team and I are excited about the momentum we're taking into the fourth quarter and we very much look forward to ending the year at a high note.
Thank you for joining us and we'll see many of you at May week.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon everyone.
My name is Tracy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome you all to the Prologis Fourth Quarter 2013 (sic) [2012] Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I'd now like to turn the call over to our host Ms.
Tracy Ward Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Tracy and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our fourth quarter 2012 conference call.
The supplemental document is available on our website at prologis.com under Investor Relations.
This morning we'll hear from Hamid Moghadam Chairman and CEO who will comment on the company's strategy and market environment; then from Tom Olinger CFO who will cover results and guidance.
Additionally we are joined today by members of our executive team including Gary Anderson; Mike Curless; Nancy Hemmenway; Guy Jaquier; Ed Nekritz; and Gene Reilly.
Before we begin our prepared remarks I'd like to quickly state that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements under federal securities laws.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates and projections about the market and the industry in which Prologis operates as well as management's beliefs and assumptions.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and actual results may be affected by a variety of factors.
For a list of those factors please refer to the forward-looking statement notice in our 10-K or SEC filings.
I'd like to also state that our fourth quarter results press release and supplemental do contain financial measures such as FFO EBITDA that are non-GAAP measures and in accordance with Reg G we have provided a reconciliation to those measures.
[Operator Instructions] Hamid will you please begin? Thanks Tracy.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter call.
A significant milestone because it marks our first full year operating as a new company.
As you know at the outset of the merger we put together an ambitious plan to drive our path for the first 10 quarters as a new company.
The purpose of this plan was to build a strong foundation for growth into the future.
Today we're 6 quarters into that plan and I'm pleased to say that we've outperformed our own high expectations.
Let me take a few moments to review the highlights of our progress.
Of the 4 priorities perhaps the most central to the plan was our decision to realign our portfolio with our investment strategy.
Because in many ways the other priorities follow from this one.
We're ahead of plan in terms of focusing our presence in the global markets.
This priority contemplated $2.9 billion of dispositions during the course of the 10 Quarter Plan.
Today we're 80% complete with $2.3 billion of sales at an average cap rate of 7.1%.
The dispositions have occurred predominantly in secondary markets increasing our overall percentage of assets in global markets from 79% at the merger date to 85% today well on our way to achieving our target of 90% in the future.
Given the number of transactions over the past 18 months the market has clearly spoken that there is no shortage of demand for high quality industrial real estate.
Importantly we sold properties at prices in line with values embedded in our internal NAV analysis.
On the deployment front we started more than $1.5 billion of new development at an average yield of 7.9% and a value creation margin of more than 18%.
These starts represent a 50% increase over the last year with a record 57% of them in build-to-suits.
In the process we were able to monetize about $400 million of our land bank.
We've also exceeded our target for our second priority which was to streamline our Private Capital business.
Our 10 Quarter Plan contemplated the rationalization of 4 funds.
And to date we've liquidated or restructured a total of 8 funds.
At the same time we're growing our Private Capital business through the formation of new vehicles and raising capital for our existing funds.
We exceeded last year's record and raised $1.9 billion of new equity.
A big part of this new business was the 50/50 joint venture with Norges Bank Investment Management that we announced in December.
We're excited about this new relationship with such a highly regarded investor and expect to close the transaction in March.
Shifting over to Asia we selected a J-REIT as the optimal structure for capitalizing our Japan operating platform.
We're very pleased with the level of interest and demand for the IPO which priced earlier in the week at the top of its filing range and will close next week.
With these 2 major priorities behind us we will turn our emphasis to growing our Private Capital platform by raising additional growth capital within existing funds and ventures.
Growing levels of investor interest in industrial property is being met by a dearth of stable operating platforms and experienced management teams.
As an owner/operator with global capabilities across a full range of risk-return strategies we're well positioned to take advantage of this trend.
Our third priority was to strengthen our financial position.
And in this regard we expect to get significantly ahead of plan following the closing of our J-REIT and Norges transaction.
Tom will go into the details of this in his prepared remarks.
Our fourth and final priority has been to improve the utilization of our assets.
Occupancy since the merger date is up 330 basis points to 94% very close to its long-term average of 95%.
Our leasing teams around the world did an outstanding job last year.
We set records for annual leasing at 145 million square feet; and for the quarter with 40 million square feet.
In the U.S.
we're continuing to see considerably stronger demand for our spaces under 100 000 feet.
Occupancy in these smaller spaces was up 140 basis points in the fourth quarter and up 200 basis points year-over-year.
This segment is closely tied to the recovery in the housing market where we expect demand to increase into the foreseeable future.
Now I'd like to shift gears and offer some brief comments on the key demand drivers for our business.
The recovery in the industrial real estate market continues around the globe.
All signals point to a positive future for our sector.
For example the IMF is forecasting global trade growth at 3.8% for 2013 and even stronger in 2014.
Improving industrial production and new goods orders also indicate strengthening economic growth.
U.S.
inventories have now been growing for the last 11 out of 12 quarters and are almost back to their precrisis level.
We expect further rebuilding of inventory this year that will surpass the previous peak.
This is not surprising given the fact that the U.S.
population has increased by 12 million in the past 5 years.
We're forecasting 150 million square feet of net absorption in the U.S.
in 2013.
This may prove conservative as it doesn't factor a strong recovery in housing or the strength we saw in the fourth quarter.
In Europe net absorption continues to be positive and has been since we began collecting the data series in the first quarter of 2011.
Take up also remains well above its long-term average.
Supply of Class-A product remains constrained in both Japan and China.
We expect the reconfiguration of supply chain in Japan and growing consumption in China to continue to drive demand for our product in the long term.
In summary strengthening demand in the U.S.
Europe and Asia together with low levels in new construction is having a positive impact on market rents.
Recovery in rents has taking hold in most global markets and is now spreading to regional markets.
With that let me turn things over to Tom.
Thanks Hamid.
This morning I'll cover 2 topics.
First our fourth quarter and year-end results; and second guidance for 2013.
So let's look at our results.
Core FFO for the fourth quarter was $0.42 a share and for the full year 2012 was $1.74 a share.
Net operating income was stronger than we expected driven by higher occupancy and development leasing.
This was partially offset by higher G&amp;A expenses due to accruals for our compensation plan as a result of an increase in our stock price and our accomplishments for the year.
Turning to our operating portfolio occupancy at quarter end was 94% up 90 basis points from the third quarter and 180 basis points year-over-year setting leasing records for both the quarter and the year as Hamid mentioned.
Leasing activity during the fourth quarter was strong across all space sizes.
At year end our spaces over 0.5 million square feet were 100% occupied and spaces over 250 000 square feet were 98.5% occupied while small spaces were at 90%.
GAAP same-store NOI for the fourth quarter was up 0.1% bringing the full year to 1.3%.
GAAP same-store in the fourth quarter was essentially flat as a result of lower-than-normal operating expenses in the fourth quarter of 2011.
On an adjusted cash basis same-store NOI was up 0.8% for the quarter.
Rent change on rollovers decreased 2.4% for the quarter.
The decline was primarily driven by European regional markets where leases were signed at the high point of the prior cycle.
Looking at the Americas rent change was effectively flat in the fourth quarter down only 0.6%.
Rent change is continuing its upward trend and we expect positive rollover in 2013.
Turning to our capital deployment we had contribution and dispositions of $1.3 billion in the fourth quarter with our share of this activity at $1 billion.
We made significant progress in the past few months on our asset realignment strategy with the formation of the Norges venture and the launch of our J-REIT.
While the Norges venture hasn't closed it is impacting our Q4 net earnings.
Therefore it's important to understand the whole picture when both of these transactions are completed.
The net effect of these 2 transactions is an overall net book gain of more than $165 million and a modest increase in our fourth quarter NAV using current FX rates.
Let me walk you through the specifics.
First we anticipate the J-REIT will close next week.
Through the contribution of $1.9 billion of stabilized assets we expect to recognize a book gain of more than $300 million at today's FX rate.
This gain is based on contributing an 85% interest in the assets to the J-REIT as we will retain a 15% interest in the entity.
Second we expect the Norges venture to close in March.
The European portfolio is primarily comprised of the former PEPR assets but also includes some wholly owned assets.
The former PEPR assets were contributed to the venture at a value effectively equal to our tender cost to acquire the additional PEPR interest.
For the balance sheet assets we recognized an impairment of approximately $135 million based on the plan contribution value of these developments.
About 75% of the impairments relate to the Czech Republic and Spain.
These properties were developed by us and on average had a construction start date in the first half of 2008 the peak of the prior cycle.
Keep in mind accounting rules require us to recognize the impairment as if we sold 100% of the assets to the venture.
However we will retain a 50% interest and expect the asset value to appreciate over time.
To sum up we expect to recognize a net gain of over $165 million.
And taking into account FX a modest increase in NAV from these 2 transactions.
Additionally by electing to retain a 50% ownership in our Norges venture we will participate in the recovery of asset values in Europe which we think will be significant.
Moving to deployment and acquisitions development starts increased significantly in the fourth quarter ending the year at $1.5 billion.
We're continuing to see more development opportunities.
And as we previously discussed our land bank is a competitive advantage.
During the quarter we conducted a thorough review of our land bank to refresh both valuation and our intended strategy.
Let me give you some color on this analysis.
Our conclusion is that our global land bank has a market value above its book value as of year end and can be divided into 2 segments.
First there are strategic landholdings located in global markets with a book value of $1.7 billion that we believe have a market value of approximately $2 billion.
Second the remaining $200 million of land is not strategic that we intend to sell in the near term.
It is on this portion that we recognized a noncash impairment charge of approximately $78 million.
The bottom line is we think we can create more value by selling these parcels and reinvesting the proceeds into our global markets.
As you know GAAP accounting doesn't provide for land values to be written up.
It does require impairments for planned land sales with projected book losses.
So when you look at the land bank in aggregate we believe the market value exceed the book by more than 10% or by over $200 million on a net basis after the impairment.
On the capital markets front during the quarter we completed more than $1.1 billion of debt financings refinancings and paydowns.
On a look-through debt basis it decreased by $800 million and we ended the year with 43.9% leverage.
We expect the Norges and J-REIT transactions will reduce our leverage further to about 37%.
Now turning to guidance for 2013.
For operations we expect 2013 GAAP same-store NOI [growth] to range between 1.5% and 2.5%.
Given the disproportionate level of lease roll in the first quarter as well as the seasonal nature of month-to-month leasing we expect occupancy to decline in the first quarter then trend higher and reach between 94% and 95% by year end.
For FX our guidance assumes the euro at USD 1.35 and the yen at JPY 92.
On the expense side we expect net G&amp;A to be $220 million to $230 million.
For capital deployment our 2013 forecast is between $1.9 billion and $2.4 billion.
This deployment includes $1.5 billion to $1.8 billion of development starts with our share at approximately 75%.
We have great visibility into our development pipeline and are off to a good start.
Our forecast also includes acquisitions of $400 million to $600 million with our share at about 35%.
Turning to contributions and dispositions we expect $7.5 billion to $10 billion in 2013.
Our share of the contribution and disposition proceeds will be approximately 60%.
Over half of the contribution and disposition forecast relates to Norges and J-REIT transactions which we expect again will complete in the first quarter.
Now for our core FFO guidance for 2013.
We expect full year core FFO to be in the range of $1.60 to $1.70 per share.
As a reminder our core FFO excludes any gains or losses from disposition and contribution activity.
We believe the appropriate 2012 run rate to which our 2013 guidance should be compared is $1.68 per share which represents our Q4 2012 result annualized.
This is also consistent with our full year 2012 result of $1.74 less the onetime tax benefit we recognized in the third quarter.
The midpoint of our 2013 guidance is $1.65 and represents a $0.03 year-over-year decrease versus the 2012 run rate.
The decline is driven primarily by the initial dilution from the timing and associated friction of redeploying the significant proceeds from our contribution and disposition activity.
Relative to this the average yield on contributions and dispositions is about 6.8% while the average yield on our use of proceeds is approximately 4.2% consisting of debt repayments preferred redemptions and capital deployment.
This dilution is largely offset by new Private Capital revenues increased NOI from development stabilization and same-store growth and lower taxes from structure efficiencies.
The timing of contributions and dispositions obviously has a significant impact on core FFO.
As we previously said the Europe recapitalization is happening earlier than what our original plan contemplated.
If the Norges venture closed in the fourth quarter of 2013 our guidance would increase by almost $0.08.
We think our quarterly core FFO run rate by the end of 2013 should be at or above $0.42 a share.
So by the end of 2013 we will fully recover our fourth quarter 2012 run rate yet with significantly lower leverage and FX exposure.
In closing I'm very pleased with our results this quarter and our progress related to our 10 Quarter Plan.
As we've been saying for some time this is an asset-driven plan and our achievements will significantly improve our cost structure our balance sheet and our liquidity.
To put this all in perspective by the end of 2013 we will have reduced our leverage including preferreds from 50% at the merger to 37% reduced our non-USD equity exposure from 55% at the merger to less than 35% by year end all while enhancing the location age and quality of our portfolio.
While we have a little further to go to reach our long-term target for leverage and foreign currency exposure we're well positioned to take advantage of opportunities to continue to grow our company strategically.
With that I'll turn it back to Hamid.
Thanks Tom.
Before we open the call to questions let me close with the key takeaways.
We had an excellent quarter and a strong finish to the year and I couldn't be more proud of how our teams have executed.
I also think it's easy to lose sight of the magnitude of these accomplishments.
As a quick recap since the merger we have sold $2.3 billion of assets; realigned over $12 billion -- that's $12 billion of fund assets; raised $2.4 billion in new private capital; increased portfolio occupancy by 330 basis points; started $1.9 billion of developments with an average margin of 19%; and reduced our leverage by 1 300 basis points post the Norges and the J-REIT transactions.
These efforts have allowed us to build a strong foundation for sustainable growth and to reach our goal of being a blue chip REIT as we discussed at our investor forum.
We have the portfolio the customer relationships the balance sheet and most importantly the team to capitalize on market opportunities by leveraging our scale and global footprint.
As always we'll do this in a responsible manner.
We'll now open the call for your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of John Guinee with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> John Guinee here.
Hamid or whomever looking at Page 29 which is your development story it looks to me like you've got about 10 million square feet -- I'm sorry 11.2 million square feet in the U.S.
alone at a development number of somewhere between $73 and $76 a square foot which strikes me as fairly high for bulk industrial.
What exactly are you building and where are you building it to come up with $73 to $76 a square foot? John I'll have Gene answer that.
Sure John.
I'm actually having trouble reconciling the page number but as to the cost per square foot these are driven primarily by a lot of starts in the Los Angeles market.
That is not an usual number at all.
And if you're looking at an Americas number it is going to incorporate Brazil.
John I'm going to continue.
So in Brazil our development costs range from $95 to over $100 a square foot so it's a real mix issue.
And if you want to look at the downside we can certainly develop for example a large floor plate build-to-suit in the call it low to mid-40s if you're in a market like Dallas for example.
So there's a pretty broad spectrum there.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Spector with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> This is Jamie Feldman here with Jeff.
I guess my question is more on guidance.
I was hoping you could provide a couple of details which are what's the cash same-store NOI growth rate? What is the AFFO based on your guidance range? And then I guess bigger picture on the development or on the dispositions kind of how should we think about that getting from the $7 billion to $10 billion kind of what would you be selling? What kind of pricing and what's the appetite? Okay.
Jamie this is Tom.
I will take those.
So first on cash same-store NOI I would expect cash same-store NOI to be at the high end of our GAAP range.
We've clearly been trending cash higher than GAAP same-store which you would -- which is consistent with this point in the cycle.
Next on AFFO AFFO for 2012 will come in right in about the low 90% range.
I would expect the same range for 2013.
On the dispositions side when you look at dispositions for the year -- we'll step back when you look at contributions and dispositions for the year with the guidance the midpoint is just under $9 billion.
And when you think about the Norges and J-REIT transactions that's a little over $5 billion.
So you're left with about a little over $4 billion left.
And when you look at the buckets of what's left it's really 3 things.
One there are about $1.3 billion of asset repositioning.
So selling out of non-core markets and assets.
There's about $1.5 billion of contributions into existing funds.
A lot of that's in Europe but also in platforms in Mexico and Brazil.
And we have about a little over $2 billion of what I would call fund rationalizations so these are just continuing asset sales out of existing funds that are either -- that we're rationalizing.
Your next question comes from the line of David Toti with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions and I'm sorry if I missed this but did you go into detail about the impairments that were taken in the period? We did.
Research Division</strong> And is there -- I guess it's a fairly recurring event at this point and I guess what's your sentiment relative to the asset base and potential impairments going forward? How that impacts your decisions on future contributions? I'd just like to get more of an understanding about the nature of the accounting and the strategic decisions behind that those kind of charges.
This is Tom I'll take that question.
I believe the impairment is over.
We don't see any impairments going forward really at all.
What's driving this is clearly our change of intent on a very small portion of our land bank which we believe we can redeploy that capital and quite frankly generate a much better return by redeploying that capital so that's on that point.
And on the European asset side these were assets we had planned to hold for the long term very good assets but as we talked about in my prepared remarks these assets were developed at the peak of the cycle.
But the important thing is we had to pick up 100% of that value change even though we only contributed 50% of the asset into the venture.
I mean that's just the way the accounting rules work.
So it's a very lopsided view of what really happened when in reality we're keeping 50% of the upside of those assets.
So if -- I would call it accounting gymnastics and don't expect to see much if any of that going forward.
And I would question that characterization of this is a recurring event.
I think it's the first time we've done it as a merged company and it was after a strategic review of our land assets in Europe primarily.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Tom just sticking with you just in terms of peeling back the onion a little bit on sources and uses.
So just at the midpoint you're going to generate $5.25 billion of cash from the sales then you talked about that being at about a 6.8% cap rate.
And then as a use of the cash at a 4.2% for debt repayment preferred and sort of capital deployment.
And I'm wondering if you can just sort of go through the amounts that you're using for each and the timing because I assume it is going to be bumpy throughout the year as the cash comes in but you won't be able to use that cash immediately and so maybe just walk us through some of that.
And then you talked about new private capital and lower taxes but you didn't quantify the change of those line items year-to-year and so if you can go through that as well that would be helpful.
Okay I will try to address all of that.
So you're right.
When you look at the midpoint of our contribution and disposition guidance it's about $5.25 billion but for round numbers just call it $5.5 billion.
And our share of deployment is about $1.4 billion.
When you look at the debt side which again we think will be around 4.2% blended yield on what we could get after there's several different components of it and I'll try to give you the bigger pieces.
Number one the biggest piece is debt transfer.
That's about $1.1 billion.
So when you think about the Norges transaction debt going transferring from our balance sheet into the venture although it's very small.
We also have contributions in Europe where debt is getting transferred to the funds.
And when you think about the J-REIT transaction where we're extinguishing debt in connection with that transaction so that's all about $1.1 billion.
There's the convertible debt of just under $0.5 billion that matures.
There's bonds that mature of about $400 million.
And then there's about $700 million of other debt that some of it's maturing and some of it's debt we think we can get after that matures beyond 2014 with minimal friction.
The -- one more piece would be the preferreds as you mentioned.
We can redeem all but one series of our preferreds.
That's just under about $0.5 billion.
And then the balance of that to finish it out would be on our line.
So when you look at the blended yield on all of that activity on all of that reduction of leverage that's about 4.2%.
And you're right from a timing perspective this will be lumpy as we look through half the quarters of 2013.
Now clearly with the Norges and the J-REIT transaction happening mid-to-late in the first quarter that will clearly have impacts throughout the year.
Because when you step back there is really a timing difference here as we said in my prepared remarks to really put this capital back to work.
And although we can reinvest in very very profitable development activity there's just a timing gap between as we're constructing those assets the only real yield we get is cost to carry which is about 4.5%.
We don't get that yield out of our pipeline.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Mailman with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Jordan Sadler's on with me as well.
Can you guys just maybe address I guess last quarter you kind of commented that you think rent spreads were going to start to turn negative here.
I know you had mentioned it's going to bounce around a bit but the negative 2.4% this quarter is a little surprising.
Just what are you seeing on that front? Do you think it's early in '13 or is that getting pushed out the expectation? Craig it's Gary.
As we said last quarter and most quarters this is going to bounce around on a quarter-to-quarter basis it's a bit volatile but I think the important thing for you to do is to look at the trend line on a year-to-year basis.
And that trend is absolutely undeniable and it's positive.
So we're definitely trending in the right direction.
We would fully expect that we'll see positive rent change on rollover for the full year 2013.
If you want to dig into Q4 specifically Tom said at the outset that it was related to Europe leasing and it was.
I'll just remind you for the quarter we had record leasing for the company at 40 million square feet.
We had record leasing for Europe at about 12 million square feet.
When you pull back the onion with respect to Europe it's actually pretty interesting the composition of the leasing.
70% of the leasing was in France Germany Poland and The Netherlands and that shouldn't surprise you.
Those are our big markets.
But 20% of the leasing was in Slovakia the Czech Republic and Spain.
Slovakia may not surprise you the Czech Republic and Spain should.
Peel the onion back even a little bit further and it gets even more interesting.
In the Czech Republic we did leasing in Uzice which is -- the market's about 30 kilometers north of Prague.
In Spain it was in [indiscernible] which is sort of a secondary market and [indiscernible] we're actually seeing leasing.
So the long and the short of it is we're seeing leasing in non-core submarkets that we haven't seen really for the past 3 years.
And those markets are rolling off peak rents.
So again while we're seeing somewhat higher rental rolldowns in Q4 I think we're seeing greater activity in the non-core markets.
And I'll take the NOI from those non-core markets as opposed to the quarter-to-quarter rent change any day.
Your next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back into the evaluation for the assets that were sold or to be sold in the Norges in Europe and the J-REIT.
I think in the prepared remarks you guys mentioned that they were above the internal values within the NAV but as outsiders as we look at it the cap rates appear higher than what we'd use for -- where those regions would come out at least on an average basis.
So I'm wondering what is -- if these values are above the internal NAV first is that excluding the pickup that you get in management fees? And second what does that suggest about the values or the appropriate cap rates for the remainder of the portfolio that will be in both in Europe and in Japan? So let me give you a global answer on that.
I think the Japan the IPO has to be priced at NAV by definition which is based on appraised values and those are actually within 10 basis points of our cap rate to the good.
In other words the appraised values were at a 10-basis point lower cap rate than what internally we had in our model.
So that's pretty simple and actually you'll have to wait to see where the thing trades.
But I think the indications of what the valuations are going to be are going to be pretty strong at the public level.
So that's pretty simple to talk about.
In Europe it's a pretty simple math.
We actually end up buying the bulk of what we recapitalized in this transaction through a tender process at PEPR.
And basically our goal was not to make a spread on the deal or anything like that.
We just wanted to get it from one format that was not right into another format that was right.
And we did that on a breakeven basis a year sooner than we wanted to.
Now you could argue that we could have hung in there and done it at 50-basis point lower cap rate and maybe we could have.
But we chose to actually break even on that transaction and establish a very new major relationship with a major investor and we kept 50% of the portfolio that we get to write up plus a promote on the other 50% that we sold.
So I think what it says about cap rates is that it was a really good transaction for the company from a capital allocation point of view.
And if you take all of that and compare it to the range of cap rates that we have used in our investor presentations and you -- particularly blended in with the dispositions which are off the bottom of the portfolio we're selling you our least desirable assets actually you would conclude that we are -- we were a little low on our NAVs before and the market -- based on the market speaking we should be a little bit higher than what we had before.
And Brendan to answer the second part of your question regarding management fees yes the increase in management fees from the formation of those new ventures is in our NAV calculation.
Your next question comes from the line of George Auerbach with ISI.
Research Division</strong> Just one question for Tom.
The trailing 4 quarter of CapEx as a percentage of NOI has been ticking up through the year.
I guess it makes sense given how much leasing you're doing but with the portfolio at 94% occupied where do you think that ratio goes in 2013? I'm going to take that this is Gene.
And we think that as you look at 2012 going into 2013 these overall numbers will stay the same.
You accurately point out that substantial leasing activity is going to move the CapEx number.
But if we break this down a little bit and just look at property improvements for the last couple of years we've been really ticking along at about $0.05 per square foot per quarter of property expenses agnostic of leasing.
And we think that's going to continue at that rate so we do not see uplift there.
With respect to the cost to lease our space that's held pretty steady.
If you look at it on a constant basis which should be on a kind of cost per square foot as you do leasing and that's -- it's right around $1.37.
So again we see that as being fairly steady.
And frankly I'm really happy about that because we're doing more small tenant leasing in the last couple of quarters and those generally have higher TIs.
So looking at the trailing 4 quarters numbers the way we've done this book it's going to take another few quarters for those numbers to sort of rationalize.
If you look at the book last year we didn't even start doing that until the fourth quarter.
So we got to digest this and run it through a little bit further.
But I would say you get a 13.9% number there for this quarter that's going to go down because that's pushed up by the high velocity of leasing.
So I'd say it'd be in the 12s but let it play through for a couple of quarters.
George I wouldn't look at those numbers quarter-by-quarter.
I look at them year-over-year because there are seasonality and all kinds of things.
And really the right time to look at these is where the different segments in terms of size of portfolio are about the same level of leasing.
We're basically out of big space.
I mean we have 100% occupancy on spaces over 0.5 million feet.
1.5% on spaces over 250 000 feet and 10% in the small spaces.
So most of the new leasing that's going to be done is going to be the small spaces and those are going to be more expensive.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just real quick if we're looking at the sequential occupancy increase into Q4 was all that coming from leasing or was there any I guess significant impact from asset mix change? There's no impact from disposition activity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And real quick in terms of the build-to-suit or in terms of the guidance for development starts can you talk about what the percentage of build-to-suits is in that mix? This is Mike.
Last year we enjoyed a very high build-to-suit percentage as Hamid referred to at 57% and we would expect on a going forward basis that to more level off approximately more in the 50/50 range going forward.
We're certainly very optimistic about our build-to-suit pipeline when you consider the U.S.
pipeline is as strong as we've seen in some time.
We're seeing some pickup in Europe and we're seeing our customers potential customers in those pipelines changing some of their requirements with more of a focus on what we would consider global markets as they're intending to be in more major population centers to serve their customers potentially in one-day delivery cycles and we think that's going to bode very well for our build-to-suit prospects in the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Truxillo with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Tom I appreciate your comments on where you think leverage is going and on walking us through the sources and uses on how you get there.
But given how the Norges JV is going to be structured essentially debt free it seems like at least the timing of how that leverage is going to be split between your wholly owned and your joint ventures has changed a little bit.
I mean you had the goal of wholly owned being 25% JV is 40%.
It seems like those 2 ratios are going to be maybe inversed here for a while.
Can you talk about the timing of that? And do you still plan to get wholly owned assets to a 25% leverage number? Yes I think the -- yes we will get the wholly owned to 25%.
And I think the reality is that our joint ventures will actually be less than 40% when you really look at it long-term because we have several ventures now the Norges venture the Allianz venture that are using little or no leverage.
Brazil no leverage.
So I think the reality is 25% yes we're going to hit that number on a wholly owned basis and my guess is our -- the JV is actually lower than 40% what we said long term.
Your next question comes from the line of John Stewart with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I've got one for Hamid and 2 quick housekeeping items for Tom.
Hamid...
Uh-oh yellow flag.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'll try to keep it short.
First of all Hamid congratulations on all you have been able to accomplish since the last call particularly in Japan and Europe.
A question on Japan.
What is the rationale for essentially leaving half of the portfolio on balance sheet and how did you arrive at what went into the J-REIT and what stayed on balance sheet? And then for Tom just following up on the accounting treatment for the European JV will you initially consolidate that? Just curious about when you're referring to the debt transfer.
And then lastly on G&amp;A I think you gave us a net number what would the gross number be? And I presume at this point that all merger integration costs will have been realized.
Is that right? Okay.
I'll answer the accounting questions and Tom can -- let me answer your question first of all thank you for your congratulations.
But I get to talk about it the team gets to do all the hard work.
So we appreciate it on behalf of the team.
Secondly the rationale was pretty simple.
We think there is a tremendous upside in values in Europe.
And we were able to recapitalize PEPR which was the primary component of this and bring it in-house basically at a pretty good value and that's essentially where we recapitalize it with the Norges transaction.
So we like -- originally we were going to do an 80/20 deal but we looked at these values and we said this is the best place we could have our capital invested over the next couple of years.
So we like owning 50% of this portfolio.
And if you really look at the economics at that 50 -- on a 50/50 basis plus a promote opportunity we think in the next 3 years we could have maybe 50% of the upside economics of this deal and meet our objectives.
So that was pretty easy.
Now on the J-REIT side I think you asked about that too.
On the J-REIT side the selection of the portfolio was pretty easy.
Those were the assets that were essentially unencumbered and stabilized on the balance sheet that were ready to go and in the pipeline for the J-REIT there are a further 8 properties that are under development or in late stages of development actually pretty well leasing up.
And 2 assets from the old AMB portfolio that have some secured debt on them that needs to get resolved.
So of those assets when they're ready to go we're hoping that the J-REIT will transact on those assets as part of its redesignated portfolio.
So I think that answers all of your questions.
John I'll tick through yours.
Norges will be on the equity method of accounting as will the J-REIT.
Merger expenses were done happy to close the cover on that book won't have merger expenses in 2013 related to that transaction.
And on a G&amp;A perspective gross G&amp;A of course just excluding property management or Private Capital which is the way we look at G&amp;A.
Gross would be between $290 million to $300 million for 2013 on a gross basis before capitalization.
Yes.
The only difference between the gross and the net in our vocabulary is basically what's capitalized into development.
And that number will probably increase over the next couple of years the portion that's capitalized will increase.
Just given our development activity.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
I'm actually looking at the footnotes in the back of the supplemental and 2 things caught my eye.
The first is there's been about $220 million spent on merger acquisition and other integration expenses including $28 million this last quarter.
How much more should we expect in 2013? And then the table that's sitting right next to it the free rent number almost $17 million in the fourth quarter.
Can you give us a sense of how many of the leases that are getting signed have a free rent component and where should that number trend over the next year? Okay.
Ross no merger expenses in 2013.
We're done with merger expenses after 2012.
On the free rent I mean I hesitate to tell you where that number is going to go but in general if you look across the geographies concessions are declining and that includes free rent.
And frankly I'm struggling to think of a place where that's static.
So the concessions are declining.
So we would expect to see free rent lower in the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Hamid or Tom when you gave your presentation back in the fall your stock was trading at $34 trading close to $40 now as you look at your sources and uses for 2013 and beyond.
How do you think about common equity at this point? I have never answered that question in a good way.
So I'll take the fifth on that completely.
But let me really get to the essence of your question which is kind of leverage and where it's going and all that.
So after Norges and J-REIT the company will be 37% levered.
We think of the 30% additional interest that we're keeping in the Norges transaction as a temporary investment.
Hopefully one that we will liquidate if you will in the next 3 years for the terms of the agreement that we have.
That is about 2.5 to 3 points of leverage.
We also have some convertible preferreds just under $500 million of them that are technically expiring in 2015.
We might be able to get at that a little bit earlier.
Who knows? I mean you would think those guys would want to convert at some point given where the strike prices are.
That's another 1.5 2 points of leverage.
So I mean based on what we've done assuming that we don't do anything else and we plan to do plenty of other things our leverage will be in the low-30s.
So we have a pretty good path to reducing leverage.
So I know I didn't quite answer the question you asked but I think I answered the question that I could answer.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Spector with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask about the U.S.
housing recovery and how you're thinking about that this year.
At the prior peak what was the percent of the home oriented tenants in your portfolio and where are you today and what are you thinking about that going forward? Jeff this is Gene.
Let me take a stab at that.
Let me give you a general answer first.
With respect to housing we've been talking about this recovery for a while.
And what we have in our forecast is a continued sort of modest recovery in home building in the U.S.
So as I look at our U.S.
operations we have upside potential if this recovery really picks up steam.
And there's an awful long way to go.
I mean we were at 1.8 million in annual starts of homes at the peak.
Yes that's not going to happen.
I don't think that's going to happen.
But we were down to 500 000 600 000 and now we're trending up 700 000.
And we have upside in our numbers if that really picks up steam.
And if the recovery completely stalls and reverses then we probably have downside.
The question you asked about what percentage of our tenants are related to home building that's probably a pretty big number.
But it has a bandwidth to it.
In other words you don't have a lot of tenants who are 100% necessarily but you have many tenants that are generally related to it.
And that's probably something we can work on for you guys to get some more detail.
But if we look at what our leasing activity is shaping up to be in the last quarter this current quarter more and more demand from the carpet guys the tile guys appliance sales are up.
And in markets like Las Vegas or Phoenix that were really really hurt we're finally seeing some good demand.
And that's why you're seeing the occupancy levels in the smaller spaces go up.
But a little more of a complex answer to be precise in the numbers.
But I am personally quite optimistic that this trend's going to accelerate.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Yes just 2 quick follow-ups one was just in terms of debt to EBITDA just thinking about leverage in a different way.
It would appear as though once you stabilize the existing developments underway plus the developments you're going to start in '13 and you sell all the assets you plan to sell this year and you have the growth in EBITDA just from the increase in same-store that you're probably in the low-7s debt to EBITDA so I just wanted to make sure that we're sort of on the same path and the same page.
And I think you've talked about a target of 5 to 6x.
It would seem as though I guess some of these other sales will eventually get you that goal.
But I want to make sure we're thinking about it the right way.
And the second one is just in terms of spend.
Tom you talked about $1.4 billion of deployment this year but I assume on those developments you're not spending all of it this year and you have $800 million left to spend on the existing pipeline so call it a $2.2 billion total commitment that you've put out there.
How much of that actually gets used in 2013 as we think about the sources and uses? And I think you forgot to answer the question that I'd asked earlier about Private Capital contribution in the lower taxes and how much that's impacting '13 versus '12.
Okay first on the EBITDA question you are right in the ballpark there regarding it being in the low-7s.
And clearly with the additional pieces that Hamid mentioned that will get us down into the low-6s if not putting a 5 in front of it.
Yes.
To get into the 5s we need a more robust recovery in rents which we'll get but it will take a while for it to roll over through the rents.
So I think we'll get there but it's not going to be primarily because of deleveraging activity.
I think if we just look at deleveraging and not a substantial growth in rents we'll be in the low-6s and I think we need that last little hump on rents to get into the 5s.
And then Michael on your question about deployment you're right we're not going to spend all of the money on our 2013 starts.
The midpoint of that's $1.650 billion but we had $1.155 billion of starts in 2012.
And we're going to be spending -- what we haven't spent in '12 we're spending all of that in '13.
So the numbers actually are fairly much in line with what I pointed out.
So that -- the $1.4 billion I gave you is really the full spend.
Yes but here's the math I think that you're trying to do.
Obviously we own the land.
So when you guys were talking about the yield on incremental investment you were looking at it at total investment.
You got to back out the land.
The yield on the incremental investment is much higher and the land is for free.
Actually it's negative in terms of what it costs us.
And then Michael I think your last question was regarding Private Capital and deferred taxes with the contribution.
I mean clearly we've talked about the deferred taxes the deferred tax liabilities we have in our books so if that was your question.
When you look at the drop we dropped deferred taxes by about $75 million from Q3 to Q4 and that was largely a result of contributions.
So that balance started at about $525 million it's down to $450-ish million now.
We'll drop that number by another $260 million when we transact -- the Norges closes.
So that's going to take our number down.
It's going to have a 1 in front of it.
And so we've really worked it down and the most important thing is the vast majority if not almost all that liability was really moved from a structuring standpoint.
So we didn't have to settle that obligation with the relevant taxing authorities in cash.
We were able to move that liability through structuring.
So and that's really important because that's often a piece people miss from a NAV perspective.
They look at the NOI side of the house but they don't look at the liability that gets moved off the balance sheet.
So that's really important for you guys to look at.
And I think there was a question earlier about cap rates in Europe and all that.
That in effect is a negotiating item.
You can either do the deal at a lower cap rate and incur that deferred tax liability or you can negotiate a deal at the higher cap rate and transfer that liability.
So we obviously reported to you the worst possible cap rate number.
There's another way we could have shown it to you which would have shown a much lower cap rate.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee with Stifel.
John they got your name right I thought you'd be there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Oh sorry about that.
I'm sorry.
I had it on mute.
I think what you're saying Tom in this regard is that you really should look at -- or is another couple hundred million dollars of implicit or explicit proceeds on the Norges deal because the tax liability goes away or does it just get pushed down the block? Well I think it's one and the same right? Because when you transfer -- if we transfer that liability to an entity which we now only hold 50% 50% of that liability has been relieved.
It's cut in half in nominal dollars and it's cut into a fraction in present value dollars given that it's pushed out way into the future.
But if you look at just what we completed in between -- in Q4 in Europe as well as the Norges transaction that's a drop of over $300 million.
It's like cash.
Your next question comes from the line of Brandon Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Tom I just wanted to follow up on the same-store guidance the cash number which it sounds like cash is probably 2.5% maybe 3% I think the high end of your GAAP number is what you said.
If I look at '13 it looks like you've got some nice tailwinds from a same-store perspective occupancy should be up year-over-year.
You've got rent spreads that are getting better.
You've got positive in-place annual rent bumps and you've got that large free rent portion as it stands in your portfolio today that ought to be little down at least a portion of it during 2013.
So maybe sort of plus 2.5% to 3% strikes me as a little bit conservative especially relative to what I think was a cumulative 25% NOI growth that you guys provided back in September over the next 4 or 5 years.
I'm just wondering if you could sort of lay out how '13 shakes out relative to the longer-term expectations of same-store NOI growth over the next few years.
Well '13 would be if you take those next 4 years.
I mean just given the nature of how this stuff rolls through the portfolio with expiration of leases obviously in 2008 and '09 certainly in 2008 you're still rolling off peak rents and by 2009 you pretty much got to the bottom of the market and every new lease you were doing there was at a pretty low number.
So when you roll out 4.5 5 years forward of that by '14 it should really pick up.
But we roll 15% 20% of the portfolio in any given year.
So even the market -- if the spot rents recover substantially it still takes a while before it works through the portfolio.
But our thesis if we were doing our investor conference today as opposed to last September I would tell you our outlook on rents would be stronger than it would have been last September.
And the reason for it is that at least for the next month the cloud on this whole fiscal cliff thing is a little bit more positive.
And the tone in Europe is more positive and we got [indiscernible] economics in Japan.
So if you look at those 3 factors alone and China has definitely turned a corner right? So if you look at those 3 or 4 political factors alone we would have a more optimistic outlook.
But the leases make it a while before it rolls over the portfolio.
Let me tie this to guidance because this is really important and you guys are going to get this but I just want to state it.
If you look at the $0.06 of the onetime tax thing last year and you look at the $0.08 of dilution of Norges because we weren't even thinking about doing that deal until the very end of 2013 or a deal like that that's $0.14.
If you adjust the guidance by $0.14 to keep it kind of comparable our earnings growth range at midpoint is 8% in terms of FFO per share growth over last year and that is with significant deleveraging.
I think that's pretty impressive and the primary driver of that is same-store growth.
So yes you're right.
We're on that path and I'm very optimistic about the prospects for our business.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> You talked a bit about pricing in Europe for assets.
Can you talk a little bit about domestically and where you expect that in '13? And also on the development side can you talk about where you expect the development margin is for the starts that you're planning in '13? This is Mike Curless.
I'll take the margin question first.
What we saw last year I think you saw margins in the [indiscernible] -- in the 18% range which we were certainly happy with that.
And we've mentioned on the call many times before that our expectations typically are about 10% for build-to-suit and 15% for spec.
And a margin of 18% this year would definitely indicate as Tom mentioned that we have built-in increased land value within our portfolio.
And as you look forward to next year in terms of margins we have an expectation over time to have a little bit more of a normalization back into that 10% to 15% range as land prices continue to increase over time in terms of their market value.
And in terms of pricing with respect to dispositions given the nature of the product type and the locations we would expect similar results next year but we were happy to have cap rates in the low-7s in terms of our disposition activity when you consider that we're selling older product tuning up our investment strategy in terms of ending up with more of our assets in the global markets we're at 85% now up from 79% since merger.
All-in we think our disposition strategy will be similar to this year which will really help us tune up our investment strategy.
The only thing I would add to what Mike said is that if you look at that 18% margin it is -- given the mix of almost 60% build-to-suits that should have been sort of 12% to 13%.
So we have 5 or 6 extra points of margin easily there.
And if you kind of look at land as 25% to 30% of the total cost that tells you that the land bank is 20% undervalued if I'm doing that math carefully correctly 20% to 25%.
So that's one way to get too comfortable with the fact that actually I think there is NAV upside in the land bank and I think with increasing rents that that spread gets bigger over time but of course we're always buying new land and the spread on the new parcels of land will be lower.
So anyway wanted to thank everybody for joining our call and we look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Michelle and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Prologis First Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Tracy Ward Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Michelle and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our first quarter 2013 conference call.
The supplemental document is available on our website at prologis.com under Investor Relations.
This morning we'll hear from Hamid Moghadam Chairman and CEO who will comment of the company's strategy and market environment; and then from Tom Olinger our CFO who will cover results and guidance.
Additionally we're joined today by members of our executive team including Gary Anderson Mike Curless Nancy Hemmenway Guy Jaquier Edward Nekritz and Gene Reilly.
Before we begin our prepared remarks I'd like to quickly state that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements under federal securities laws.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates and projections about the market and the industry in which Prologis operates as well as management's beliefs and assumptions.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and actual operating results may be affected by a variety of factors.
For a list of those factors please refer to the forward-looking statement notice in our 10-K or SEC filings.
I'd also like to state that our first quarter results press release and supplemental do contain financial measures such as FFO and EBITDA that are non-GAAP measures and in accordance with Reg G we have provided a reconciliation to those measures.
[Operator Instructions] Hamid will you please begin? Thank you Tracy.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter call.
The year is off to a great start and I'm pleased with our results.
Momentum is building across all our lines of business.
Performance in the first quarter was driven primarily by strong operations and the continued execution of our 10 Quarter Plan which remains ahead of schedule.
Let me first offer some observations on the economic trends that affect our business.
Global trade has risen well above its previous peak and the IMF forecast of growth are 3.6% for this year and 5.3% for the next year.
Globally consumption is also expanding with e-commerce an increasingly important factor growing 15% per year in developed markets and more than 25% a year in emerging markets.
This is driving new demand for large-scale distribution facilities around the world first from pure online companies and second from traditional retailers building out parallel supply chains for their online divisions.
Most of these companies are positioning their distribution networks in global markets for expedited delivery which plays right into our area of strategic focus.
Space utilization stands at record levels.
This suggests that our customers have less shadow space than normal which is an important leading indicator of demand.
In the U.S.
personal consumption and expenditures are 5% above prior peak and the consensus forecast is for consumption to grow by 2% this year and next.
Housing is clearly on an upward trajectory which starts in sales growing in the first quarter.
Real inventories troughed 3 years ago and today they're still 3% below their precrisis level.
This is the only major economic indicator that remains below peak.
We expect inventories to surpass previous highs by year end.
In the U.S.
net absorption in the first quarter was a positive 63 million square feet 2.5x the comparable quarter last year and the strongest first quarter since 2000.
We've not changed our forecast for net absorption of 150 million square feet for 2013 but we may prove to be conservative given the strong start to the year.
In spite of surging demand development remains in check.
For the quarter new supply was a modest 17 million square feet well below the historic average.
The majority of starts were build-to-suit projects.
For the year we expect completions in the U.S.
of 60 million to 70 million square feet roughly half the norm for a recovery and in line with our estimates for annual obsolescence.
I spent last week in Europe and came away convinced that demand for high quality facilities combined with a dearth of modern supply will result in near term improvements in occupancy and in time rental rates.
Today we see clear evidence of this occupancy in rental growth in northern Europe and the U.K.
The key takeaways from my trip last week were first investor interest in investing in European logistics is growing substantially following the closing of our Norges venture.
Second the capital markets are improving.
Investment activity has picked up and there is more financing available than the headlines suggest.
We're confident this activity will put downward pressure on cap rates as it did in the U.S.
2 years ago.
In Asia demand is driven by e-commerce and 3PLs who are reconfiguring their supply chains.
Vacancy rates reached new market lows in Japan.
In China net effective rents continue to rise and are expected to grow by 5% to 7% in 2013.
In short we see a new window of opportunity opening with the return of pricing power in most markets.
At the same time we have interest rates at historic lows.
These 2 conditions rarely coexist.
We believe we are entering the sweet spot of the industrial rent cycle with a period of significant rental growth ahead of us.
Let's switch gears now for a brief look into our results for the quarter.
Our teams around the globe did a stellar job leasing a total of 35 million square feet.
This volume is 15% higher than the comparable quarter last year.
We have the typical seasonal dip in occupancy in our small units.
This was due to normal seasonal factors.
We continue to believe this segment will experience a considerable boost from their recovering housing market.
Demand for our largest properties continue to grow.
We're 99% leased in spaces over 250 000 feet and completely sold out our product above 0.5 million square feet.
This level of demand is significant for 2 reasons.
First following 17 quarters of rent roll downs rent change turned positive this quarter as we had anticipated.
Recovery in rent has broadened and now includes most of the markets around the globe.
Second as we indicated at our investor forum we expect net effective rents to grow by 20% to 25% globally through 2016.
The only change from our earlier expectations is that we now believe we'll realize this growth sooner.
Rental growth will be the single biggest driver of our future core earnings and its realization is not dependent on any incremental capital investment.
The lack of supply is driving our development starts especially for the larger buildings.
During the quarter we start more than 310 million of new development projects with an average estimated margin of more than 21%.
Over 1/3 of our starts were build-to-suits.
While we don't expect to sustain this level of development profitability forever our margins point to the low book value of our land bank and the competitive advantage it provides us going forward.
We saw the benefit of our land bank with a number of recent build-to-suits including projects with Amazon Quaker BMW and Sainsbury's.
In each case our fully entitled and ready-to-go sites were a major contributor to our success.
Let me conclude with a few comments on Private Capital.
During the quarter we reached 2 key milestones.
We completed the IPO of our J-REIT which was a tremendous success and continues to trade well.
This vehicle will serve as a long-term operating vehicle in Japan.
We also completed the recapitalization of PEPR and our European balance sheet assets by forming our joint venture with Norges Bank.
This venture underscores the strength of the European investor real estate market and the appeal of our portfolio.
To sum up Prologis had a great first quarter and we're poised to do well going forward.
With that I'll turn things over to Tom.
Thanks Hamid.
This morning I'll cover 3 topics.
First our quarterly results; second deployment and capital markets activity; and third guidance for 2013.
Starting with the results for the first quarter core FFO was $0.40 a share $0.01 ahead of our expectations.
Net operating income was better than we forecasted driven primarily by higher occupancy.
We'd expected occupancy to drop about 80 basis points sequentially in line with the higher lease roll that occurs at the beginning of each year.
However occupancy only declined 30 basis points from year end as leasing volume came in higher than forecast.
Occupancy was 93.7% at quarter end.
Q1 leasing volume was 35.8 million square feet which was seasonally strong as Hamid mentioned.
Rent change on rollover increased 2% for the quarter.
Positive rent change was driven by space sizes 250 000 square feet and larger consistent with where we're seeing low vacancies and limited new supply.
For the quarter GAAP same-store NOI was up 0.3% and on an adjusted cash basis was up 1.8%.
Cash same-store NOI should continue to outperform GAAP same-store throughout 2013 as we expect further benefits from contractual rent bumps and declines in the rent concessions.
Switching gears to Private Capital.
Our Private Capital revenues this quarter are up sequentially due to asset management fees from the J-REIT and Norges joint venture.
Had both of these transactions occurred at the beginning of the quarter our Private Capital revenue would have been almost 6 million higher.
Following these transactions about 80% of our Private Capital fees are now generated from perpetual or long life vehicles.
Moving to our deployment activity.
We had contributions and dispositions of $5.3 billion during the first quarter with $3.3 billion in our share.
The vast majority of this related to the closings of our J-REIT and Norges joint venture.
We realized or monetized $247 million of development value creation in the first quarter driven primarily by contributions to our J-REIT.
As you know our core FFO does not include any of these development gains even though we recognize real economic value from the transactions.
To put the magnitude of the development realization in context the development gains were $0.53 per share relative to our core FFO of $0.40 per share for the first quarter.
Development starts were $313 million for the first quarter with $218 million our share.
We're continuing to see more development opportunities and as expected our land bank has proven to be a competitive advantage.
We have very good visibility into our pipeline and are off to a great start this year for this early in the period.
On the acquisition front it was a light quarter.
However our pipeline is building as there are more opportunities coming to market.
Now let me walk you through our uses of our net deployment proceeds.
We used $2.4 billion of the proceeds to repay our senior convertible and secured debt as well as paid down our credit facilities.
We retained the remainder of the net proceeds and ended the quarter with $785 million in cash.
Subsequent to quarter end we completed the redemption of $482 million of our preferred stock.
This leaves one series of preferred stock currently outstanding with a redemption value of $100 million.
As a result of the significant disposition and contribution activity we lowered our look-through leverage to 37.5% a reduction of almost 600 basis points from year end and we improved our net debt to EBITDA to 7.5x down from 8.8x in the fourth quarter.
And we also increased our U.S.
dollar net equity to 66% up from 58% at year end.
Our long-term goal is to have this metric over 80%.
It's important to point out that while we've significantly reduced our leverage we've also been able to maintain our core FFO level of $0.40 per share on a year-over-year leases.
Now for an update for 2013 guidance.
For operations we're maintaining our GAAP same-store NOI range of 1.5% to 2.5%.
We continue to expect year-end occupancy to range between 94% and 95%.
On the expense side we're maintaining our net G&amp;A guidance range of $220 million to $230 million.
For capital deployment our 2013 forecast continues to range from $1.9 billion to $2.4 billion.
This includes $1.5 to $1.8 billion of development starts with our share at approximately 75%.
Based on the pipeline we see today we could be at the high end of this range.
And $400 million to $600 million of building acquisitions with our share at about 35%.
Turning to contributions and dispositions.
We're maintaining our guidance of $7.5 billion to $10 billion for the year with our share of the proceeds to be about 60%.
With the activity completed in the first quarter we're at about 60% of the way through our disposition and contribution guidance for the entire year.
The balance of the guidance totals $2.3 billion to $4.8 billion with dispositions primarily in the U.S.
and contributions to our co-investment ventures in Europe Japan Brazil and Mexico.
We've revised our FX guidance and are now assuming the euro at 1.3 and the yen at 100 to reflect the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar over the past quarter.
This change has about a $0.03 per share negative impact on full year core FFO.
We continue to expect 2013 core FFO to range between $1.60 and $1.70 per share.
As we discussed last quarter our core FFO guidance is significantly impacted by dilution from the timing and associated friction of redeploying the proceeds from our contributions and disposition activity.
Relative to this the average annual yield on contributions and dispositions is approximately 6.8% while the average annual yield on our use of proceeds is approximately 4.2%.
These use of proceeds consist of debt repayments preferred redemptions and capital deployment.
As a result of the redeployment timing and friction core FFO will not be evenly distributed between the quarters for the balance of 2013.
We expect second quarter core FFO to be $0.02 to $0.03 lower than the first quarter.
Core FFO will increase in the back half of 2013 primarily driven by higher NOI from development stabilizations same-store NOI growth and lower interest cost.
Before I close I want to discuss 2 new disclosures in our supplemental this quarter.
The first disclosure relates to our debt-to-EBITDA metric.
As you know development is a key business segment for us.
However its earnings or realized value accretion gains are not included in our core FFO or in EBITDA as I pointed out earlier.
In order to correct for this misalignment certain adjustments need to be made to our debt-to-EBITDA calculation to appropriately reflect our development business.
These adjustments are detailed in our supplemental and include increasing EBITDA for stabilized NOI from the pipeline increasing debt to fund the remaining cost to complete the pipeline and decreasing debt by the book value of the land bank.
Using this methodology our debt to EBITDA was 6.2x for the first quarter.
This is the right metric to use to compare us to REITs who do not have a meaningful development business.
The second disclosure relates to G&amp;A as a percentage of AUM.
We use this metric internally to measure and manage our overhead cost.
We provided 2 ways to look at this metric based on whether you want to use our AUM owned and managed or our share basis.
Using owned and managed AUM you need to include both our G&amp;A and Private Capital expenses in the numerator.
This results in 69 basis points.
Using our share of AUM you need to include both G&amp;A and Private Capital expenses but you must deduct our Private Capital revenues from the numerator which results in 61 basis points.
The traditional way of measuring G&amp;A as a percentage of FFO is not applicable for us given our substantial Private Capital business.
To wrap up I'm very pleased with our results this quarter and the positive impact you now see in our financial position resulting from the progress we made on our strategic priorities.
While we have a little further to go to reach our long-term leverage and foreign currency exposure targets we're in a great position to take advantage of emerging opportunities and to profitably grow the company.
With that I'll turn it back to Hamid.
Thanks Tom.
Here are the key points I hope you take away from today's call.
First the recovery in industrial real estate continues around the globe.
This is evident in growing demand in the face of still very modest supply of new space.
We're in an unusual phase of the cycle where we benefit from both low interest rates and accelerating growth in rents.
Second the substantial work associated with the merger is complete and we're ahead of schedule on our 10 quarter priorities.
We built a solid foundation from which to grow in the coming years.
Third we believe the scale of our operating platform the depth of our expertise and customer relationships and our substantial land bank provide us with some significant competitive advantages going forward.
We have the financial resources both public and private to capitalize on a growing and exciting set of new opportunities around the world.
With that we will open it up to your questions.
Michelle? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Jeff Spector from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> This is Jamie Feldman here with Jeff.
I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about the kind of leasing you did see in the quarter and what you're expecting for the year.
I know there's a lot of talk about housing helping demand grow but maybe just frame how much of your bullish comments are housing related how much is e-commerce how much is supply chain redesign just to frame a little bit more of what's going on out there.
Sure Jamie it's Gene.
Let me take that.
I think it's broad-based.
Obviously what's really moving the needle is e-commerce because you have a lot of very very large transactions.
So they're driving the absorption in the market and we're certainly seeing our fair share of that.
But we're also beginning to see -- although in this quarter as Hamid mentioned we had a normal seasonal decline in occupancy of small spaces Jamie I'm actually more bullish this quarter about our prospects for small tenant leasing than I was last quarter.
Last year I think we dropped in the first quarter and then built about 340 basis points of occupancy in that segment.
And like I said I feel better about this year.
So it's fairly broad-based.
We need better information for you guys relative to housing.
What we do see is that there's more floor-covering-type demand more demand for millwork appliances and other housing-related activity and that's probably growing 25% 30% sort of quarter-to-quarter.
So we are seeing that and that does show more in the small tenant spaces.
One final thing on aggregate demand and sort of our general sense of bullishness I'll speak to the U.S.
and there isn't any doubt that e-commerce is driving tons of demand.
We're getting our share.
But it's really -- it's focused on major population centers.
It's focused on gateways.
So there is -- there are winners and losers in this and we think our portfolio is well positioned.
So Jamie just a couple of things.
I think on Europe and Asia with respect to Europe it's really about high utilization rates.
The spaces that they're in are full.
We don't have the same phenomenon of housing driving Europe today.
In fact the housing market -- it's really tough to get data on housing in Europe but the data that we've been able to piece together in some of the larger markets is that from 2007 which was the peak housing starts have dropped 55% and haven't recovered yet.
That will be something that will be a driver in the future for Europe.
In Japan e-commerce is a big play.
But the bigger and broader play quite frankly is reconfiguration and that's going to happen for decades so that's not a story that's going to go away.
And in China again it's about consumption: moving from an export-oriented economy to a consumption economy and again that's going to take some time.
So we're optimistic about leasing in Europe and Asia.
Your next question comes from David Toti from Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> I just have a very quick question.
Can you walk us through the 9% same-store expense growth that you posted in the quarter? What were some of the primary drivers there? And is it possibly related to some of the changes that you've instituted? Yes.
It's Gary.
Let me take a stab at that.
First of all I'd tell you that if you look at the comparable quarter Q1 2012 that was a very low expense quarter.
We were actually down 6.6% so it's tough to compare quarter to quarter but let me try.
The 9% change is really split into 2 pieces.
You had the Americas and Europe and it was basically half and half.
For the Americas we say this occasionally but it really had to do with a light winter in '11 '12 so we didn't see much expense in the first quarter of '12.
For Europe it's a little bit more complicated story.
You had the same sort of winter variants light winter in Central and Eastern Europe.
We had some repair and maintenance increases in northern and southern Europe and there were some utility and property tax timing differences.
Net-net-net what I would tell you is that I wouldn't be concerned about operating expenses spiraling out-of-control.
We've got them under control.
Most of these are recoverable expenses.
And in my view again I think we need to get a couple of quarters behind this so we can get really good clean comparable quarter-to-quarter data.
.
Your next question comes from Michael Bilerman from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Hamid you talked in your comments about sort of the rental growth upside that you laid out last September the 20% to 25% upside in rents by 2016.
And I think you made the comment on the call that you believe that you're still going to get it but you're going to get it sooner.
And the other thing that you put out at that Investor Day was call it $400 million of potential incremental NOI over $0.80 with the majority of that coming from this rent growth.
And so just given the lease rollover schedule that you have how should we start thinking about that 365 annualized number starting to hit bottom line FFO next year the year after? How quickly will that come? Sure Michael that's a good question and I think probably the single most important question in terms of what our earnings profile is going to look like in the next couple of years.
The $400 million is a simple math of roughly 25% plus a little bit of occupancy gain which from the point I made to comment stabilization is about 2 to 3 points.
It's a combination of 21% 22% rental growth and a couple of points of occupancy gain and 25% of $1.6 billion is $400 million and that's how that math comes from.
We actually did not project that in terms of what actually rolls over through the leases through 2016.
I don't know.
My guess would be 70% of it will rollover by 2016 and some of it will be anticipated in 2016 on our 2017 numbers.
So it will be maybe 85% 90% of it but it's some fraction of it.
It's not 100% of it.
The other thing you've got going is that the leases in the interim that get marked to market are obviously going to have escalations on them.
So those while not affecting GAAP those affect sort of our cash same-store kind of growth numbers.
So that's really a ballpark estimate but directionally I think if I'm going to make a guess I would say we're probably 6 months earlier than what I told you 6 months ago.
So feeling pretty good.
Your next question comes from Craig Mailman from KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> Jordan Sadler is on the line with me as well.
Tom I know you touched on it in the prepared remarks the bump in expenses or the Private Capital business.
Basically I know on Page 30 you laid out the pro forma edition there.
But just looking -- are a lot of the expenses kind of front-loaded in that 99 and that 5.8 million flows right to the top line or is there a little bit of margin erosion in the Private Capital business? No it's a great question.
There is not.
We're actually going to see improved margins in our Private Capital business.
When you look at the Q1 number it's seasonally a little high.
That number will come down as we look forward into Q -- the rest of the year.
And that -- the Private Capital expenses are going to go up a little bit as a result of NPR and that platform cost.
And there are more assets under management in that business now compared to Q4.
But Q1 was a little seasonally high.
It will come back down and you're going to see pretty significant margin improvement over the year in our Private Capital business.
Your next question comes from Vance Edelson.
Research Division</strong> Could you comment on property valuations in Europe? Are there any signs of improved sentiment there and higher valuations being applied? Or do you think that's going to have to wait for actual economic improvement even though you're clearly outperforming based on the push toward upgraded logistics now? Yes.
It's Gary.
Look I think that this is happening.
We've seen of a very slight bit of compression over the course of the last quarter.
But again I think that the Norges transaction that we did recently is a watershed event.
And I think that you're going to see more capital coming into Europe.
And as a result I think you're going to see more compression.
Valuations are lagging today but I would expect over the course of the next 12 months you're going to see improvement there.
This is Guy.
Just to add to that a little bit.
In our funds in Europe we've seen pretty much flat values for 7 quarters.
We have not seen a recovery in value since the trough.
If you look at last year the entire logistics fund industry in Europe might have raised EUR 100 million of capital virtually nothing given the scale of that market.
Since the Norges transaction was announced we have seen a significant pick up of real inquiries real investors doing due diligence.
And going back to Hamid's comments we think the capital will flow through funds ours and others and will start to drive those values.
Your next question comes from Brendan Maiorana from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question on the debt-to-EBITDA metric in the back of the supplemental which Tom you mentioned in your prepared remarks.
I'm wondering if you guys are now sort of looking at the balance sheet on that adjusted pro forma metric of 6.2x as opposed to the 7.5x which is on the traditional metric and what that might mean for your target leverage and debt-to-EBITDA metrics which I think on the traditional calculation are still 5x to 6x.
Brendan it's Tom.
Thanks for your question.
There is absolutely no change in our long term leverage targets.
We still want to get to 30%.
We wanted to share the adjusted debt-to-EBITDA metric for the development business to make sure people really understand how that business impacts those metrics.
And if you want to compare us to other companies who do not have a substantial development business you have to adjust for that business to accurately reflect our financial position.
So we think it's the right way to compare us to other companies but absolutely no change in our long-term goals of leverage.
Your next question comes from Ross Nussbaum from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the goal you have for your U.S.
dollar exposure? I think the commentary was you're up to 66% on Q1 transactions and the long-term goal was 80%.
Generally speaking can you just refresh us on what your time frame for that goal is? And at this point are there any other what I'll call big moving pieces to get to that goal or is it the basic blocking and tackling of the [indiscernible] Ross this is Tom.
We'll see that goal -- I think we'll attain that goal over the next 2 years.
The biggest movers of that were clearly the J-REIT transaction and the Norges transaction.
As you know we have the ability to sell down an incremental 30% in our Norges joint venture 2 years out.
That will significantly impact this number.
And we'll continue to contribute assets off of our balance sheet development assets off our balance sheet in Japan into NPR.
Now when you think about the other big dials that will turn this it's really going to be on the debt side of the equation.
We really moved most of the pieces on the asset side.
So now it's on the debt side.
You're going to see us move more of our long-term debt out of U.S.
dollars into euro and yen to further naturally hedge our exposure.
I think that'll take us over the balance of the next 2 years to get those pieces together hopefully sooner.
Your next question comes from George Auerbach from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Hey Tom could you help us maybe bridge the step down in revenues from the first quarter to the second quarter as you sort of fully move Norges and the J-REIT assets out of the revenue run rate? Yes so as a reminder NPR happened on February 14 so it's in Q1's results for half a quarter.
The Norges transaction happened on March 18 so less than 15 days in the quarter.
When you look at those 2 transactions alone that is about -- when you net -- after you net out the incremental fees we get from those transactions it's about $27 million of NOI.
So that is really what's driving that decline.
And then there's also the timing impact of how we're deploying the capital.
If you remember we ended the quarter with $785 million in cash and we're putting that to work in the second quarter.
As you know we redeemed $482 million of our preferred shares and we also have substantially all of our balance sheet debt maturing by June 1 of this year.
So we'll be able to redeploy a significant amount of the excess proceeds in the back half of the second quarter but that really explains that dip.
And going into the second half of the year you're going to see core FFO grow back because we're going to see stabilizations from our development pipeline.
As you know we've been ramping up our development pipeline.
That kicks in you're going to see same-store NOI growth kick in.
And also you're going to see the full impact of our deleveraging through lower interest expense as well as the elimination of those preferred securities.
Your next question comes from John Stewart.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tom could you please give us the releasing spreads on a cash basis? And then Hamid you pointed out that the J-REIT has continued to trade well since the IPO.
But of course the flip side is that there was some value left on the table.
Could you please speak to the process the execution and the trading since the IPO? John it's Gene.
Let me take your first question on the cash rent change.
We do not track that metric.
And the reason we don't is as you know it's extremely volatile and we believe other measure is more informative.
So if we look at our quarterly GAAP rent change in fact it's in concessions and rent bumps and is a better gauge for comparing real apples-to-apples net effective rents on a quarterly basis.
We think that's helpful.
But if we really want to understand where our cash in place rents relative to the current market you look at it just on a quarterly basis you get a lot of noise.
But as the rents have recovered globally we think today overall the portfolio is currently under-rented by about 5%.
So John this is Hamid.
In Japan the way an IPO works is that the buyer of the J-REIT I cannot buy assets for more than appraised value particularly when acquiring assets from a sponsor that's an affiliate.
So no matter where the REIT market would have been even if we were doing it today it would have to transact at the same number.
So really the pricing of the IPO only affects leverage and not the price of the sponsor.
The more the price is the lower the leverage is.
So even if we had waited till today with the benefit of 20/20 hindsight and executed on the peak of the market we wouldn't have gotten a dime more in proceeds.
So that's the first point.
The second point is that our range of pricing was JPY 500 000 to JPY 550 000.
We priced at the top of that range which was equivalent to the low 5% cap rate on the assets that were contributed.
And that was a much more attractive cap rate than any of the analysts following us have in their NAV.
And finally I would say that in terms of exchange gains notwithstanding the yen if you will weakening in the last 3 months from where we invested in those assets we have several hundred million dollars of gain that you'll never see because they're foreign exchange gains.
So in short we're very pleased about the execution of the J-REIT and we think it'll continue to be a great vehicle for growing values in Japan for us.
Your next question comes from Michael Mueller from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess on the acquisition side I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the types of products you're looking at.
Is it what you see in the pipeline as a predominantly stabilized assets? Is it stuff with lot of vacancy or just something in between? This is Mike.
We're certainly looking at a combination of acquisition opportunities which range from primarily core.
Most of our activity here has been -- 95% has been in the core markets.
But a very important part of our business is the value-added acquisition.
Part of our business where we have real success in identifying below or off market and very attractive returns that we can add our leasing machine to and create some real value.
So I think we'll get combination of that as we look forward to the future.
Your next question comes from Vincent Chao from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question just going back to sort of the development pipeline and the value creation there.
Yes I know you said the margins are pretty high right now.
But just looking at the weighted average cap rate at stabilization estimated at 6 4 I know that ticked down just a tiny bit quarter-on-quarter.
But just thinking about that relative to some of the cap rates that were discussed at the Investor Day it just seems like it's a little bit high given the mix of assets we're talking about here in the pipeline being almost 50/50 Asia U.S.
And so I'm just wondering if you could provide some color on that if that's just conservatism in there or if I'm not -- maybe I'm not interpreting that correctly.
Vince this is Tom.
To go back we'd like you to think about what we've talked about margins to be from a long-term perspective.
We've talked about build-to-suit margins being in the low-double digits.
We've talked about spec being mid to high teens.
And what you're seeing today is really those margins are reflective of the land bank that we're seeing today.
And let me just add one more thing Vincent.
You do have some mix of Brazil and Mexico probably in those numbers which certainly in the case of Brazil dramatically affect it.
Your next question comes from Michael Bilerman from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just had a follow-up in terms of the G&amp;A disclosure Tom.
I certainly appreciate it.
I guess thinking about that you are in the development business the same way that you talk about the debt to EBITDA you're deducting from here the $85 million of development G&amp;A that you're capitalizing in the projects but you're not including that as sort of this platform but you are including the land and the development portfolio in your AUM.
And actually it's a meaningful percentage.
That's like 20 basis points in terms of G&amp;A.
I'm just curious why you don't think about the totality of the enterprise that you need because arguably you are in the development business.
And if you are in the development business you would have to either bring those people on or get rid of them but then you wouldn't have the development AUM.
So I'm just trying to think about how you are thinking about managing the enterprise in that way.
So Michael you're absolutely right.
We are in the development business and those are real people with real costs associated with them.
And by all means you're welcome to add that to our G&amp;A and look at it in the totality of our business.
But that would be one way of looking at it.
But it seems to me that it would be pretty inconsistent with looking at it without any of the gain or value creation coming out of the real estate -- out of the development business.
So I guess the most conservative way of looking at it is to add 20 basis points to our overhead and continue to not count any value creation in the development business.
The more modest way would be to attribute the proper overhead which long term by the way is a variable cost.
Short term it may not be a variable cost.
And if we decided for some reason which we're not going to decide just to be clear to get out of the development business we wouldn't forever have all these extra developers around.
We would rightsize our organization.
We could theoretically put all those people in a related entity off to the side and outsource to them as well and still show the same margins because the margins that we're showing the 21% doesn't include the cap overhead.
If we were to add that to the margin it would probably be 25%.
So look we're going to give you all the data.
You can figure it out any way you want.
In the long term those costs are variable.
In the short term they're fixed.
That's a real business.
It produces real profits and we're very excited to have it going forward.
And full disclosure you figure it out.
Hey Michael just one point of clarification.
The $88 million annualizing the capitalized cost those are not all development.
About 40% of those costs relate to leasing.
We'll clear that up so you can see the components of that going forward in the supplemental.
And also to point out that we're not capping all of our development costs by any means.
So sitting in our G&amp;A are costs that support all of our businesses and our back-office supports development just like it does our rent business and those costs are not getting capitalized.
Yes it's just the direct cost of development not the indirect cost of development so.
Your next question comes from Michael Salinsky RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the transaction [ph] activity plans for the balance of the year how we should expect timing in terms of development starts? And also at the pipeline right now is about a 7.8% yield.
Where would you expect additional starts to commence at over the balance of the year? Well in terms of our activity -- this is Mike.
In terms of our activity in development starts as Tom and Hamid mentioned we're certainly off to a good start this year at 300 million plus in the first quarter which is typically a very light quarter.
To give you a little contrast this time last year we were at [indiscernible] 14% of the midpoint of our guidance range.
We're already at 20% of the midpoint of the guidance range and we have a handful of announcements I think you've seen already to put the balance of our development forecast in really good shape.
We've got a handful -- announcements have been made and will be made soon to get the second quarter off to a real good start.
And so therefore I think we're very bullish relative to our guidance on development activity going forward.
Your next question comes from Brendan Maiorana from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had just 2 follow-ups.
One Tom I think you mentioned initially in your prepared remarks that same-store guidance of GAAP basis plus 1.5% to plus 2.5% was unchanged but I think you also stated that cash is likely to be higher.
Wondering if the spread of roughly 100 150 basis points that we saw in Q1 higher cash versus GAAP is likely to sustain throughout the rest of the year.
And then secondly on FFO guidance.
I think you said the FX changes were a negative $0.03 a share.
So should we sort of look at from an operational perspective that you're feeling $0.03 better at sort of the midpoint of your guidance Q1 versus what you guys reported or what you guided to in February? Okay Brendan on the same-store GAAP versus cash if you look over the last really 5 quarters the spread between GAAP and cash has ranged -- has averaged about 100 basis points.
I think we'll see cash same-store outperform GAAP by about between 100 150 basis points for the year.
I think that's going to hold.
Regarding the -- your FX question and it did have a negative $0.03 impact on full year guidance.
And you're right we are seeing ops offset that which is helping us keep our range the same.
Your next question comes from Dave Rodgers from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Yes Hamid with regard to the speculative development and construction that we've seen obviously increasing in the last couple of quarters with your excitement around the business as well maybe can you talk about governors around the overall development pipeline kind of the sizing of the pipeline relative to the size of the company that you're thinking today and then how that sizing might depend relative to the build-to-suit and speculative mix? Good question Dave.
So just to put the historic perspective at the peak I think the old Prologis was doing in the high 3s and the old AMB was doing in the low 1s of development.
So combining those 2 platforms even without considering that we have Brazil which is an added market it would have been 5 billion a year.
We're not going to do $5 billion a year.
We've been doing about $1.5 billion inching up to $2 billion.
As we laid out now 2 3 years ago we think it's a $2.5 billion a year type of number.
To put a range on it we only think it's $2 billion to $3 billion when it finally ramps up and it's stabilized.
Not all of that will be our capital.
Remember in Japan -- excuse me in China and Brazil and Mexico we're doing that with Private Capital.
So roughly 60% of that will be our capital exposure.
So our capital exposure on a run rate annual basis call it $2.5 billion times 60% $1.5 billion on a bigger company compared to $5 billion before.
So it's much more modest in the context of certainly history.
In terms of -- and we continue to believe that the opportunity profitable opportunity is about $2.5 billion a year.
I mean we could do $5 billion but it wouldn't be profitable okay and we're not going to do that.
And I think it's going to be a year or 2 before we get to that level if the market continues in this direction.
The build-to-suit percentage is -- has been unusually high.
In the last year it was 57% et cetera et cetera.
Today I think the run rate for build-to-suit is probably 25% to 30% for a company our size.
But remember the spec deals that you talk about -- this is not putting up a 40 story spec office building somewhere.
This is building the seventh building in a park where the other 6 buildings are full and we have visibility into what demand is.
So I don't know what you call that incremental development whatever the name is but purely it's not development in a spec or pioneering type of location.
It's a [indiscernible] with an established base.
And when you're 95% leased which we're not there yet but we'll get there an incremental million square foot building on Prologis' 550 million square foot base is not really material.
So I think we're very prudently managing risk in an integrated way across the company by not just the volume of development but also by our capital exposure in development.
Your next question comes from John Guinee from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well first wonderful job on the 10-quarter plan.
Congratulations.
Looking at Page 28 because that's an easy one to look at Hamid about a $30 billion total enterprise value about $47 billion of AUM does your 3-year plan basically have enough active asset recycling that the $30 billion and $47 billion number stay about the same? Or is this also a growth business in terms of those numbers as well as square footage? And then the second question which is really part of the first question is you're creating a lot of value.
It's not coming through the core FFO but what's your thinking about the dividend and the ability to raise the dividend? Great question.
So again good questions there.
I think we are going to grow in terms of square footage in AUM but not because that's a metric that we plan to but because of the opportunities I see in front of us in terms of the business.
And let me elaborate on that.
First of all we are cleaning up the portfolio pretty quickly in terms of getting out of other markets and the bottom of our regional markets.
And as that process continues there's less of it to sell.
And I think we'll sell a couple billion a year for a little while but I think on the other hand we're developing as I mentioned earlier $2 billion $2.5 billion a year and we'll certainly have some acquisition activity on top of that.
So I think net-net-net AUM will grow not a number that we plan around but I think that's going to be the reality of the picture.
What was your second question? Oh dividend dividend.
I love dividend.
I think the key run rate of the dividend will be matched to our key core FFO rate over time.
If -- our development gains and the way we look at it are not really accounting or realized gains.
I mean what we do in terms of development and creating a margin does not necessarily mean that we're going to realize it in cash.
It just means that we may put it in the operating portfolio.
We may sell it to a third-party or we may contribute it to one of our related platforms.
So I think if we all of a sudden get gobs of cash because we sell it to a third party and we book a lot or we earn a lot of cash profits maybe we'll do a special dividend at that time for that purpose if we can't manage it another way.
I'm not a big fan of special dividends but that's conceptually how we think about it.
But really the long-term rate of the dividend needs to be matched to the core FFO earning power of the company.
John I would add on the -- the other piece that the development gains really allow us to do is we're really -- we're redeploying that capital all those profits back into our development engine.
It allows us to recycle that capital much more effectively much more quickly.
We don't have to go out in the market so those profits are really helping us fund our growing development business.
And John let me also mention one other thing.
As I said in the investor forum last September I think eventually people will start giving us credit.
I hope by the way never at 10x or 12x or whatever people were counting development profits in the good old days but at the sensible 4x 5x kind of a number in terms of the value that we're creating in that number I may be wrong about that but that's what I think.
So I think there's some good news there.
Your next question comes from Michael Salinsky from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> When you talked about the effect of single-family a couple of quarters back you talked about the small block space in the portfolio.
Can you give us an update what -- how much leasing you're -- the occupancy in that portfolio and how that's tracked over the last couple of quarters? Have you seen a pick-up in single-family housing? Mike I'll tell you what Gene already answered that question a little earlier.
You may not have been on the call.
So instead of repeating that why don't you just call Gene and he'll take you through it if you don't mind.
Your next question comes from Jeff Spector from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> It's Jamie again.
Just following up on what you're saying about build-to-suit and just new supply in general is there something going on in this cycle that there is more of a demand for build-to-suit rather than spec? And I'm just thinking maybe it's like e-commerce related or supply chain redesign where these companies want very specific -- have very specific requirements.
Or is there something else that's driving the fact that we've seen so much more build-to-suit than usual at this point? I think the buildings are getting bigger for e-commerce and there are fewer private developers.
The private developing machine is really constrained right now because of financing.
And Jamie you would know that obviously.
So it's tough for these private guys to get a lot of financing million-square-foot buildings even in out-of-the-way places are $50 $60 a foot so those are big-ticket items.
I don't think it's because the buildings are particularly specialized.
I mean the shelves and configurations are pretty flexible.
What people put inside of them in terms of conveyor systems and the like in some cases can be elaborate but that's at the tenant's cost and it's removable.
In fact actually if you go look inside a lot of these fulfillment centers that are these big buildings you'd be really surprised to see how low tech some of them are with boxes sitting around on the floor and actually the building is not that crazily heavily utilized because the whole distribution is set up around parcels as opposed to pallets and all that.
So nothing special about the buildings.
Buildings are getting bigger and the private machinery for building spec is constrained because you can't get 100% financing.
Mike do you have more to say about that? Yes there's more expectations I think with these customers to identify what we like to consider the safe choice folks that don't have any financing contingencies have a long track record with building high-quality buildings and these requirements are gravitating as you've heard before to larger or global markets.
And those 3 facts have contributed to we think a very substantial and high closure rate for us.
And then you mix in the dearth of supply of large spaces around the country then they really got nowhere else to go.
And it's all playing very well into our hands right now.
Your next question comes from Michael Bilerman.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick question.
Tom just on the debt to EBITDA the 7.5 GAAP number the debt is reflective of all the sales that you did because it's an end-of-quarter number.
Have you pro forma the EBITDA down for the NOI that's effectively going out from the sales? Yes we have.
When I talked earlier about the drop in NOI over quarter 1 to quarter 2 of the run rate we've adjusted that down.
It's about $27 million I think.
It's footnoted.
I think it's on Page 9 of the supplemental.
Okay Michael you get the last word.
Thank you everyone for your interest and we look forward to talking to you next quarter if not sooner.
Bye-bye.
Thank you everyone.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Tiffany and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Prologis Second Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Tracy Ward you may begin your conference.
Thank you Tiffany and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our second quarter 2013 conference call.
The supplemental document is available on our website at prologis.com under Investor Relations.
This morning we'll hear from Hamid Moghadam Chairman and CEO who will comment on the company's strategy and the market environment; and then from Tom Olinger our CFO who will cover results and guidance.
Additionally we are joined today by members of our executive team including Gary Anderson Mike Curless Nancy Hemmenway Guy Jaquier Edward Nekritz Gene Reilly and Diana Scott.
Before we begin our prepared remarks I'd like to quickly state that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements under federal securities laws.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates and projections about the market and the industry in which Prologis operates as well as management's beliefs and assumptions.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and actual operating results may be affected by a variety of factors.
For a list of those factors please refer to the forward-looking statement notice in our 10-K or SEC filings.
I'd also like to state that our first quarter results press release and supplemental do contain financial measures such as FFO EBITDA that are non-GAAP measures and in accordance with Reg G we have provided reconciliation to those measures.
[Operator Instructions] Hamid will you please begin? Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us this morning.
We are pleased to be hosting today's call from our operational headquarters in Denver.
As you know since the completion of the merger we've been laser focused on our 10-quarter plan which has guided our priorities as a new company.
During this time you watched us deliver on our 5 key strategic objectives.
We've completed this plan 2 quarters ahead of our own ambitious schedule.
Let me take a moment to review a few of the highlights.
Our most important objective was to align our portfolio with our investment strategy.
We completed $10.2 billion of dispositions and contributions with an average cap rate of 6.9%.
On the development front we started more than $2.5 billion of new developments with an average yield of 7.8%.
45% of this volume was in build-to-suits.
In addition we acquired 925 million of new properties in our target markets at an average cap rate of 7.3%.
The net result of this activity was an increased allocation to global markets from 79% at the merger to 85% today.
Our second objective was to improve the utilization of our assets.
Occupancy post merger is up 300 basis points to 93.7%.
During this period we monetized $865 million of our land bank mostly through development starts at an 18% value creation margin as well as some third-party sales.
Streamlining our private capital business and positioning it for growth represented the third pillar of our plan.
At the time of the merger we had $25.7 billion of gross assets across 22 private capital entities.
Our plan was to rationalize our funds into a smaller number of differentiated and profitable vehicles.
Today we have $22.8 billion of gross assets under management across 15 ventures and we expect our fund count to go down by a few more by the end of the year.
Including the assets we brought on balance sheet we have retained 96% of our original assets as part of our platform.
We expect to grow our third-party assets under management from this point forward.
As part of our plan we've been repositioning our business to focus on larger long-duration ventures open-end funds and most recently geographically focused public entities.
These long-duration ventures now account for 84% of our investment management revenue versus 80 -- 68% at the merger.
We are also accessing alternative sources of public equity such as our newly formed J-REIT.
Our strategy enables us to tap capital in both public and private formats for targeted geographies across our global platforms.
In this regard the team has raised $5.5 billion of new third-party strategic equities since the merger.
This is on top of the $2.7 billion of equity we have raised at the headstock level during this period.
The strengthening of our financial position has been a core element of our plan and our fourth objective.
Since the merger we reduced our look-through leverage including preferreds from 50% to 36% lowered debt-to-EBITDA from 10.4 to 7.4x improved our share of equity in U.S.
dollars from 45% to 75% and increased our line of credit capacity by $350 million while reducing our borrowing spreads by 40 basis points.
We believe we're in the final stages of building one of the strongest balance sheets in the REIT industry and are optimistic that this strength will be reflected in our credit ratings going forward.
Our fifth objective was to build a highly effective and efficient global organization.
As a combined company we achieved over $115 million in merger synergies well above our initial target of $80 million.
In addition we successfully implemented a major enterprise system that will provide us an information infrastructure that is unparalleled in our industry.
We're also focused on building a culture of accountability and empowerment.
We have equipped our leaders with a series of management tools that will help them manage their divisional profitability overhead efficiency and business risk.
In summary I'm incredibly proud of what the Prologis team has accomplished since the closing of the merger.
These efforts have simplified our company and built a strong foundation for sustainable growth in the coming years.
It's now time to focus on the future.
We believe the scale and quality of our operating platform the skill set of our team and the strength of our balance sheet provide us with unique competitive advantages going forward.
We've established a clear roadmap for growth in the coming years with a focus on 3 key priorities: first to capitalize on rental recovery; second to realize the potential of our land bank by putting it to work; and third to use our scale and costumer relationships to grow earnings.
I'll take a minute to expand on each of these priorities.
First the rent recovery cycle is firmly underway and is accelerating in most markets at the pace ahead of the rental growth forecasts we laid out at our investor forum last September.
This is best evidenced by the second quarter's 4% increase in rents on rollover.
Over the past 3 quarters the U.S.
industrial market has absorbed 164 million square feet of space.
This is more than triple development completions during the same period which were a mere 46 million square feet.
This excess demand of 118 million square feet is the highest in the 33 years of data from CBRE.
As we look forward we're increasing our 2013 net absorption forecast for the U.S.
to 180 million square feet up from 150 million square feet.
We expect to see a modest volume of completions at 65 million square feet.
Moving to Europe.
Although still in recession we believe Europe has reached an inflection point in many ways similar to what took place in the U.S.
in mid-2010.
We believe rents are off the bottom and cap rates are heading lower.
In retrospect it seems that our venture with Norges Bank was a watershed event in terms of restoring investor confidence in the European industrial market.
In Japan the political changes are driving increased consumer confidence.
Strong market conditions and healthy spreads are attracting capital from around the globe.
Turning to China.
Despite the downward revisions to GDP demand for Class A logistics space remains strong and much better than the headlines would suggest.
Market rents continue to rise and concessions have decreased across the country.
Our portfolio in China is more than 96% leased and rents have increased by more than 13% in the past year.
Globally space utilization in our facilities is at the highest level we've seen since we've been tracking this metric.
This means there is little or no shadow space in the system.
Additional economic growth would translate directly into incremental demand for the logistic facilities.
As this overutilization reverts to the norm we could see an extended period of excess demand driving up rents even further.
Our second growth opportunity is to realize value from our land bank and our costumer relationships.
The key to a successful development program is having strategic land control and in this regard we're in an excellent position.
Our land bank is increasingly undervalued and will be an asset going forward.
We have the potential to build an additional 200 million square feet or about $10 billion in new development at high incremental returns on land that is already paid for.
We'll be prudent with our development starts which we expect to average around $2.5 billion annually.
The value creation potential on this level of starts will be approximately $300 million a year.
Our third growth opportunity is to use our scale to grow earnings.
We have the ability to expand our global platform by at least $10 billion without adding much in the way of incremental overhead.
We measure and disclose our overhead efficiency in terms of the ratio G&amp;A to assets under management which currently stands at 54 basis points.
We believe we can add incremental AUM from here at a marginal overhead rate of 10 basis points or less which will further drive efficiencies and earnings growth.
We're beginning to see our acquisition pipeline grow both through proprietary opportunities such as buying up in our funds and as more third-party transactions come to market.
This was the primary rationale for our equity offering in April.
Despite recent increases interest rates are far from a level that would affect pricing in the U.S.
and Europe.
Cap rate spreads over 10-year treasuries remain above historical averages in our markets.
In short we're confident that these 3 strategies will enable us to generate above-average earnings growth in the coming years.
With that overview I'll turn things over to Tom.
Thanks Hamid.
This morning I'll cover 3 areas: first our results for the quarter; second deployment development value creation and capital markets activity; and third updated guidance for 2013.
Starting with our results for the second quarter.
Core FFO was $0.41 a share $0.04 above our expectations.
About $0.025 of the outperformance was from investment management income primarily driven by a promote related to winding up Alliance Fund II.
We had expected this will occur in the second half of 2013.
Our share of development value creation was $79 million for the quarter including $64 million that was monetized through sales and contributions at a 34% margin.
Turning to our operating portfolio.
We had another strong quarter of leasing volume at 36.3 million square feet.
Occupancy was 93.7% at quarter end flat to the first quarter.
Our teams in the ground are focused on driving rent growth versus occupancy at this point in the cycle.
To that end the GAAP rent change on rollover increased 4% for the quarter and was evident across all space sizes.
On our first quarter call we were asked about cash rent change.
This is not a measure we use internally to drive leasing decisions or evaluate our operating performance.
We make our leasing decisions based on net effective rent change as this metric best reflects the underlying lease economics.
To provide you with some perspective cash rent change on rollover was down 3.4% for the quarter.
Consistent with our GAAP figure this metric includes rent change on all spaces signed during the quarter for both new and renewal leases and regardless of how long the spaces were vacant.
For the quarter GAAP same-store NOI was up 70 basis points and on an adjusted cash basis was down 40 basis points.
The decrease in cash same-store NOI this quarter is a result of increased free rent associated with longer lease terms and a greater volume of leasing in large spaces.
Moving to investment management.
We had a very active quarter completing an $800 million secondary offering for our J-REIT and rationalizing 2 ventures.
The rationalization included Fund II that I mentioned earlier and the closeout of Japan Fund I.
Retaining the high-quality assets of these 2 funds was a great outcome.
I want to point out that the $13 million promote related to Fund II was not included in investment management revenue but instead was reflected as a component of noncontrolling interest in the income statement.
This accounting treatment is required since Fund II was a consolidated venture.
Now switching to our deployment activity.
We took advantage of some great investing opportunities during the quarter deploying $922 million which included development starts acquisitions and investment in our funds.
With respect to our development business it is strategically important to us that it provides our customers with modern state-of-the-art logistics facilities and it generates real economic value.
We do not include development creation in our core FFO because not all value creation flows through our income statement to the extent we keep development on balance sheet.
If we were under International Accounting Standards all of the value creation would flow through earnings.
Going forward we'll provide you with development value creation on stabilization and upon monetization so you can value this business appropriately.
Our share of development value creation during the first half of the year was $393 million.
This includes $311 million or $0.64 a share that was monetized through sales and contributions.
Turning to our capital markets activity.
We had a very busy quarter completing $4.3 billion of capital markets transactions.
This included debt financing refinancing pay-downs and the redemption of preferred stock as well as our $1.5 billion follow-on offering.
As of the end of June we invested about $600 million of the follow-on offering in line with our forecast.
And by year end we expect to invest the majority of these proceeds with the remainder effectively left for delevering.
As of June 30 our look-through leverage was 35.8%.
Net debt to EBITDA was 7.4x and net debt to EBITDA adjusted for development was 6x.
During the quarter we did incur $32.6 million of debt extinguishment costs primarily related to the prepayment of $350 million senior notes.
These notes were due to mature in 2014 and had a coupon rate of 7.6%.
A very important part of our capital structure strategy is to minimize our foreign net equity exposure.
During the quarter we hatched EUR 800 million at an average economic exchange rate of 1.36 for a term of 4.5 years and JPY 250 million at an average economic exchange rate of 88.9 for a term of 5 years.
Our U.S.
dollar net equity was 75% at June 30 an increase of 600 basis points from the first quarter.
We're forecasting our U.S.
dollar net equity position to be approximately 80% by year end.
Subsequent to quarter end we recast our global line of credit and established an ATM program for $715 million both of which provide us with further flexibility to fund our growth.
Let me now turn to our guidance for the remainder of 2013.
For operations we're maintaining our GAAP same-store NOI range of 1.5% to 2.5% and year-end occupancy to range between 94% and 95%.
For FX we're assuming the euro at 1.3 and the yen at 100 for the second half of the year.
On the expense side we're forecasting net G&amp;A to range between $225 million to $233 million.
For capital deployment we are seeing an increase in opportunities to invest and are now forecasting a range of $3.5 billion to $4.1 billion.
This is an increase of $1.7 billion from our previous guidance and includes $1.8 billion to $2 billion of development starts up $250 million from our prior guidance with our share at approximately 80%.
We expect to stabilize about $1.4 billion of developments in 2013 at an estimated margin of approximately 25% generating $350 million of value creation with $310 million our share.
Our deployment guidance also includes $800 million to $1 billion of building acquisitions an increase of $400 million from prior guidance with our share at about 40% and fund investments of $900 million to $1.1 billion.
We have a great opportunity to invest in our funds.
The quality and location of our fund assets along with our expectations for a significant rent recovery make these investments very accretive.
Turning to contributions and dispositions.
We're maintaining the top end of our guidance in the range to $8.5 billion to $10 billion for the year with our share proceeds at approximately 60%.
We are narrowing our 2013 core FFO range to $1.63 to $1.67 per share.
We expect our quarterly run rate for the second half to be at or above our Q2 run rate of $0.41 a share driven by higher NOI from development stabilizations deployment of the remaining equity offering proceeds same-store NOI growth and lower interest expense.
Before I close I want to mention 4 new disclosures in our supplemental this quarter.
First we added enhanced disclosure around development value creation.
Second we added average term for our quarterly leasing activity.
Third we added turnover cost as a percentage of leased value.
And fourth added property improvements per square foot on a trailing 12-month basis.
To sum up we had a great quarter.
Clearly we had a number of moving parts related to the execution of our strategic priorities.
However when you take a step back and you compare our results with last year our core FFO is essentially flat while leverage has been reduced by 10% and our U.S.
net equity exposure has improved by 1 600 basis points.
As we had forecasted we were able to derisk our financial position with minimal impact on earnings.
With that I'll turn it back to Hamid.
Thanks Tom.
There are 3 key takeaways that I'd like to leave you with.
First we expect improving economic conditions and the constrained supply picture to lead to a significant increase in demand and pricing power for our products around the globe.
Second we expect to see substantial earnings growth from 3 areas: the recovery in rents putting our land bank to work and capitalizing on our scale and by continuing to expand in existing markets.
Third our accomplishments over the last 8 quarters are a direct result of the efforts of the dedicated and engaged team.
This team has worked hard to get the company to its current position of strength and we're all excited to take advantage of the opportunities that this platform will offer us in the coming years.
With that we will open it up for your questions.
Tiffany? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of George Auerbach with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Tom or Hamid can you maybe talk about the opportunity set in a bit more granularity in terms of your ability to buy into existing funds or the opportunities you see in Europe today? Sure.
In terms of our funds I think you saw 2 really good examples in the past quarter.
One was an acquisition that's been actually reported.
We haven't announced that but it's been widely reported which is a portion of our NA3 portfolio that we had and we're buying a portion of those assets.
And secondly we were able to buy up in our Allianz Fund II portfolio from 28% to 100% of the fund.
And actually the contribution of Japan Fund I to the J-REIT and -- which was funded by the secondary offering is actually a way of actually acquiring assets without going through the balance sheet directly into that vehicle.
So this is really good for our investors too because they get certainty of execution.
They know that we're there to be for them and it also provides us a cost-efficient way of accessing new assets.
In Europe specifically we think the appraisal community is lagging the reality of the marketplace.
And we've been pretty vocal about this.
So this is not a big secret.
And yields and some funds are in the mid-7% range which we think are very attractive returns particularly once you think about what's going to happen to the cost of financing in Europe exactly the same thing that happens to the cost and availability of financing here in the U.S.
So that's one way of increasing our exposure.
And now we have a lot more capacity given the J-REIT that we did.
We can take advantage of that.
We're not constrained by our allocation to Europe.
And then we're seeing some opportunities specifically in Southern Europe where you can buy assets at significant discounts through replacement costs even ignoring the price of land.
You can buy assets in some instances in the 9s with very significant spreads over cost of treasury.
So I think at a prudent level we'll be net investors over there and we'll use our existing vehicle to take advantage of those emerging opportunities.
Your next question comes from the line of David Toti with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> Tom I have a question for you and it's sort of a kind of big picture.
If we look at the cap rates on the disposed assets in the second quarter they seem to have compressed a little bit and the same with the stabilized development yields on a sequential basis as well.
And that seems to be happening around the same time that we're seeing some expansion in spreads and the cost of capital.
Do you expect those trends in the yields to reverse in lockstep or in sort of correlation with the capital costs? Or do you expect more compression in those yields going into the second half of the year? David let me take that.
I think that yield in any given quarter is more driven by mix than any big trend.
So if you have a couple of big Japan deals or something in there that could really move around the numbers in a big way.
So I wouldn't read too much in the yields on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
In terms of what our view of cap rates are around the globe I think cap rates are going to decline in Europe or are declining in Europe.
I think they are stable at the very low levels in the U.S.
for really good assets and even good assets in secondary markets.
I would say sort of C assets in softer markets could see haven't yet could see a 25 or 50-basis-point increase in cap rates because those are usually acquired by highly leveraged buyers where they're more affected by interest rates.
We by and large don't have any kind of that product.
And the very little that we do we never price it to the top tick of the market anyway.
So I think we can absorb that kind of 25 50-basis-point cap rate increase without missing our pricing expectations.
But generally I think the vast majority of the properties that we traffic in I think the cap rate trend is down.
And not to go too far on the limb but cap rates are very comparable to where they were in call it late '07 early '08.
But treasury even with their increase are good 200 basis points lower.
So the spreads are actually pretty good.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm not sure who this question is for but can you -- if you look at your 2 billion of land I think that's the number that 1.8 billion of land how much of that would you expect to be able to deploy because demand is there in the next 3 years? And how much of it do you think is in inventory for longer than 3 years? And how much of it can be sold to a third party? Thanks John.
I'll hand it over to Mike Curless.
John it's Mike.
I would say that in the next 3 years we would expect to deploy a good 75% of the entire land bank if not more.
And in terms of what we would attempt to sell I think we mentioned before about 15% of our entire land bank right now we view as nonstrategic and we have plans to sell those.
Last year we sold 30 parcels that fit that category.
We've already sold 15 yet this year and expect to do more the balance of this year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That would imply being able to develop say 15 million square feet in the Central Valley 12 million square feet in Southern California.
Is that really able to...
John it's Gene.
Let me give you some color on this.
You are correct.
In the Central Valley we have a very very big piece of land that might be a -- could be a 15-year build-out.
But that is very rare.
I mean if you look at most of our land parcels our overall build-out timeframe for them is going to be anywhere from immediate to 3 years.
So -- and by the way we love that piece of land and I wouldn't be surprised if we absorb it in less than 10 years.
But I think that's somewhat of an outlier.
And I think Mike said we'll absorb 75% or so of the land bank.
15% of it is for sale.
So there's sort of 10% of cushion there.
Yes.
The only other thing that I would add John is that specifically with respect to our Central Valley land that's the price of land for a 300 000 square foot building in Tokyo.
We bought that land really really well.
And really to make -- the real investment in that land is the infrastructure that will be phased in over time as we take it down.
So think of it as an option because really the price was just the upfront ticket price to get into the game.
And we feel really good about that position.
And the percentages I referenced were in terms of dollars not acres.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Mailman with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just curious I know Hamid you've kind of given your views here on cap rates in a lot of the markets.
But just curious have you guys changed at all the way you're underwriting acquisitions or developments to account for kind of the potential for rates to rise here? Or are there -- been no changes at all? I think the best evidence of that is the margins that we report to you on starts every quarter and what we realize.
And at least for the last 2 years the realized margins have been far in excess of the way we underwrite.
So we've been trailing if you will the movement in cap rates and there's always -- I wouldn't say always I mean I'm sure in '08 we were over our skis on a couple of underwritings.
But at this point in the cycle we've been pleasantly surprised by the cap rates on our development stabilizations.
So I think there's room in our numbers going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question regarding your strategy on your capital stack.
With your goal with what you have been trying to develop $2.5 billion of new development and when acquisition is combined and with leverage not being the same kind of concern it was maybe 2 or 3 years ago does 30% -- what would make you change your view on a 30% look-through leverage ratio which seems pretty low? I mean on a look-through basis you'll be lower than Simon [ph] which is considered a blue-chip status.
What would have to happen for you to change that view on overall leverage? Dave [ph] is a pretty good friend but I think we're lower leverage today not at 30% significantly.
And I think it will be time before maybe we're recognized as having the same kind of balance sheet.
But turning to the substance of your question look 35% 36% that we're in today includes preferreds.
So if you look at the normal capital structure that has 5% preferreds on it we are already at a 30% leverage.
Kind of the mix is a little different.
But we're basically that way.
So we feel good about our leverage.
We work hard to get it here.
We have a business model that has more development in it as you pointed out.
So I think we need to be more prudent in terms of leverage on the balance sheet.
Look -- and we want to leave some capacity for doing strategic stuff that come along from time to time.
So you could see us fluctuate from 30 to high 30s back down to 30s.
But we want to manage it around that level.
And I want to point out the $2.5 billion development is not a goal.
We do not have goals for development.
Having goals for development gets you into trouble.
That's our estimated volume of business that will be there to do profitably.
If it's less than that it's less than that.
If it's more than that so be it.
But I think across the cycle that's a reasonable number.
But I want to emphasize it's not a goal.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Feldman with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Hamid I was hoping you can talk a little bit more about your outlook for rent growth.
I think you had said that rent growth is happening faster than you expected.
How should we think about prospects for continued rent growth versus new supply coming online given you guys are growing your pipeline and it looks like you've got a higher percentage of spec than in the past? And kind of what are the other competitors doing that might put a damper on rent growth? I think that is an invitation for you to come to our investor forum in September because we're going to devote a substantial amount of time taking you through our views on rent growth.
And in addition to what we provided last year we're going to talk about the profile of that rent growth as we see it as markets near stabilization.
But we're pretty optimistic about the overall magnitude of the rent growth.
Probably very consistent with our views last year.
We just think the profile of getting there is a little quicker.
I mean we never in our wildest dream dreams imagined the 118 million square feet of absorption over construction deliveries.
I mean those are big numbers and we think that's going to continue this year.
So I think we're going to get there faster.
And interestingly some of our lagging markets like in the Ohios have been actually -- have pretty solid rent growth albeit from very low and depressed levels.
But it's rent growth and that's happening a lot actually than we thought.
Some of the other markets like L.A.
that were earlier in the cycle and have essentially reached their precrisis levels are probably going to taper off here in terms of rent growth.
But some of the lagging markets I think quite a bit of rent growth.
And the rent growth that we've experienced today I mean this is obvious to you but has not rolled through our rent growth by any stretch of the imagination.
It's just the spot rents that have rolled.
We've got -- even if rents stop right here we say we're going to have 3 or 4 years of rent growth by the time the stuff rolls through.
So we're feeling pretty good about it.
But it's about time.
Your next question comes from the line of Vance Edelson with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> And now turning to the occupancy rate I realized it varies by facility size.
But with regard to the overall rate it sounds like it's mainly by design that it's plateaued out a bit.
You'd rather raise the rent than see occupancy significantly rise.
So given that do you think this level of occupancy is sort of the sweet spot than 94% 95% range? Is that where you'd like to see it stay as you increase the rates? Right.
This is Gene.
Let me take that.
Your observation is spot on.
And if you want to drill onto the numbers a little bit you saw a sequential decline actually in occupancy in the Americas by about 10 bps.
What's important to emphasize is we are actually slightly ahead of our plan in the Americas because obviously it depends on what's the composition of what's rolling.
We expect to ramp into the mid to high 94% range.
And yes right around 95% that is the sweet spot.
And actually above 93% you can really push your assets.
So our assets in the Americas it's absolutely on rent growth.
Those markets are leading the recovery.
In Europe and Asia they are different stages.
Yes a little bit different.
I mean in Asia we've been sitting around 96% 97% occupied and obviously been pushing rents there even at a faster rate than we had anticipated last September.
When we talked about China we talked about sort of 5% to 6% compound annual rent growth that we were underwriting when historically they were about 8%.
This first half of the year we're at about 13% in China.
Japan's up 6% and we thought we'd be up too.
So again a very very positive trend.
With respect to Europe obviously we're lagging but we're holding occupancies at 93-plus percent.
We've gained 20 basis points this quarter.
So things are heading in the right direction.
And again if you sort of look at the trend with respect to rents I feel pretty strongly that come the back half of this year you're going to see positive rent change in Europe coming through as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> It's Michael Bilerman.
Tom I was wondering if you could just spend a couple of minutes just going through the back half deployment as well as sale plans because a lot of the numbers are for the full year.
And really we're trying to understand as the balance sheet as of June 30 really what the impact is in second half.
And it would appear as though the predominance of the equity proceeds $1.5 billion are really going towards growth initiatives.
If you were to take that $1.7 billion and multiply it by the percentages that you had it totals $1.4 billion so leaving very little for debt repayment.
But I don't know from the sales perspective in the second half whether that's a source of other capital.
So if you could sort of really break down that second half deployment between development and acquisitions and fund as well as sales.
Okay thanks Michael.
So you're right in regards to the bulk of our equity-raised proceeds will be deployed in starts acquisitions investments and funds.
We did take up our guidance on contributions and distributions and that's about $1.5 billion.
So that's incremental proceeds that you're seeing that allow us to fund that incremental $1.7 billion.
But your numbers are very close.
From how things will lay out in the second half starts are back end loaded but you'll see those fairly evenly through Q3 and Q4.
Acquisitions will be more weighted to Q3 than Q4.
And on contributions you're going to see those weighted a little towards Q4 versus Q3.
Yes.
And the only other thing Michael I would add to Tom's answer is that what we acquire may not always live on the balance sheet forever.
So you should assume that we use private capital throughout -- the private or strategic capital throughout our business and we may at some point recapitalize some of the stuff that we would acquire.
So keep that in mind.
Bottom line is with the second -- the last 30% of Norges in Europe and our convertibles being paid off we already have 4 or 5 points of deleveraging that's kind of on the books.
I mean it's just a matter of time before that happens.
So think of our 36 as sort of 32 plus 4 and we'll get there.
And right now we see leverage at year end at around 34%.
So to Hamid's point with the Norges and the converts that would put us right at the long-term target of look-through of 30%.
Yes.
We're not even thinking about that issue anymore.
We moved so far beyond that that I think it's a matter of time before everybody figures it out.
Your next question comes from line of Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I think it's a question for Tom.
Just that the answers that you gave to Michael's question was the deployment timing of both development and acquisitions offset by contributions.
If I think about the guidance outlook and the run rate in the back half of the year I guess it suggests that maybe there's a little bit of a ramp but probably not a dramatic ramp as we think about Q3 to Q4 is that correct? And does your guidance in the back half of the year include any type of onetime gains like the promote that you got in the second quarter? No it doesn't.
So our next schedule promote is in 2014.
So we are not modeling a promote in the second half.
So there's not a promote in the second half to our guidance.
But that does affect our run rate when you think about Q2 and the promote was in there.
But when you look at Q2 without the promote of $0.39 we are going to be ramping up our core FFO without the promote.
And you're seeing that through deployment of the remaining equity proceeds.
You're seeing that through same-store NOI growth.
You're seeing that through stabilization of developments.
And some what have been impact of lower interest costs because in Q2 you did not see the full impact of our deleveraging efforts.
So I think in the back half you're going to see us grow off that core base and we see it at 41-plus cents a quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Sullivan with Cowen Group.
LLC Research Division</strong> Hamid this is really a question for you based on your commentary on rent growth and the promise of a very exciting Analyst Day at the end of the year.
And this really goes to the issue of the same property NOI that forecast you have for the full year.
I'm surprised that the range hasn't narrowed a little bit from the 1.5 2.5 that you've retained all year given the results we've seen in the first half.
And I guess the flat-out question here is that do you anticipate that your rental spreads in the coming quarters are going to be higher than they've ever been? Because that's what seems to be suggested here.
Jim first of all the excitement around the Analyst Day is mostly because of the America's Cup.
We're about to talk about that.
Secondly -- I guess that's unabashed marketing.
The rent ramp it takes a while for these things to work through the leases.
And remember the leasing that we report doesn't even kick in for another couple of months.
So really at this point you're looking at the year.
There's 3 months of leasing left to be done.
And no matter what we do it's very hard to effect the numbers with that middle period as these leases make their way through the systems.
So we've got to be a little bit more patient about the spot rent increase coming through and you're absolutely right.
I think it's going to reflect itself into the mark-to-market of rents.
And last quarter in answer to that question we said about 5%.
Our answer this quarter would be 5% to 10%.
So we are higher than where we were before for precisely the reason that you mentioned.
Jim I want to add one thing just to emphasize what Hamid said.
So when we report our leasing activity that's based on signs.
And we're typically signing leases 1 to 2 quarters in advance of their effective date.
So we're signing leases in Q2 that are going to kick in in Q3 and Q4.
So you're seeing a lag -- you're not seeing the full impact of the rent change that happened that's being reported on the leasing in Q2.
You're going to see that in Q3 and Q4.
So Q2 is more of a reflection of the leasing activity that we reported to you in Q4 and Q1.
So there's a lag there that our same-store NOIs should really start to pick up as Hamid said with rent growth but as this lag between signings and effective date kicks in.
Your next question comes from the line of John Stewart with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Hamid a couple of questions for you.
First of all not looking for earnings guidance for next year but you referenced the ability to generate above-average earnings growth over the next several years.
What's your bogey? What are you referencing in terms of an average? And then you also mentioned that you think you can add $10 billion to the asset base with just 10 basis points of any incremental overhead.
What's the optimal size for your asset base? And likewise what's the optimal land bank when it comes to price? Did I hear that you expect to cycle 2 or 3/4 of it in the next 3 years? So that makes sense but what's the optimal size when you think about replenishing the land bank? Good questions.
The optimal size of the land bank it should be viewed in the context of the development run rate.
And historically our average value has been about 2.5 to 3 years worth of land.
I think we should get more efficient and carry a little less than 2 years worth of land and just get the land -- control more land via options and other things that allow us to cycle through it a little quicker.
But think for now as 2 years worth of development would be the appropriate amount of land.
So if you think of this $2.5 billion it's $5 billion of development in 2 years and if land is 25% in Japan and places a little higher than that I would like to see our land bank be around $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion call it.
It will take us to get there.
And yes we're chewing through land but we are also getting new land every day.
So it's not a static number.
We won't see through it completely.
What was your first question? Rent growth.
Oh rent growth.
So I think the industrial business across the cycle has been sort of inflation really long cycle.
And I think the last 5 or 6 years as we all know had been an exception to that.
Long term has been about inflation.
I think if you're focused on supply constrained markets and the global markets that we are I think rent growth could be 100 to 150 basis points ahead of that.
So call it inflation at 2 2.5; rent growth at 3 3.5.
That would be across the cycle.
I think in the next 3 or 4 years we could be 5% or 6% because we're closing that gap through replacement costs by picking up an extra call it 2% to 3% for an incremental 4 or 5 years until we get to that level.
So to answer your question about 300 basis points on top of what's normal would be my expectation.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm here with Gabe Hilmoe.
When I think about where your capital deployment is going to occur over the next year or 2 in terms of the monetization of the land bank in terms of the investments that you're going to be making in funds and then I look at where your current footprint is in terms of your share it would seem to me that it's possible that your exposure to Asia could go down a little bit.
How should we be thinking about the importance of Asia to the platform? And ultimately what percentage of NOI or asset value is it going to represent? Yes.
Our growth asset allocations you're familiar with I think gross meaning where our gross assets are regardless of how they're financed.
And those are roughly a little under 50% in the U.S.
10% are in the other Americas and the remaining 40% roughly split between Europe and Asia just to use some pretty rough numbers.
Europe is over that today.
Asia is below that today.
So that's the growth asset allocation.
But in terms of our net asset allocation meaning where our equity is we certainly have a higher percentage of funds over time in Asia than we do in Europe or the U.S.
because we started out the business with that model and now we have this public entity in Japan where the expensive assets live.
So a lot of that stuff is going to be living in the public entity that we own 15% of.
So in terms of our net equity exposure we'll be way lower than that to Asia and to Europe frankly and much more than that to the U.S.
And that's been a deliberate strategy.
The strategy is to take advantage of global opportunities to serve customers but we are a U.S.
dividend player -- payer.
So we need to manage our exposure to foreign currencies down significantly through the use of private capital vehicles and by in effect setting up our debt so that we have a natural hedge on those assets.
That is very deliberate.
But one of its implications is that our NOI or certainly our FFO will be less dependent on some of those overseas locations.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just sticking with the FX commentary just curious if in light of the target of 80% exposure to the U.S.
dollar and if the dollar strengthens here more than you're modeling in today how should we be thinking about the FFO impact here over the balance of 2013? If it's a maybe 5% strengthening versus what you're talking about today.
Well when you look at from an FX exposure on earnings in the second half a 5% move of currencies would be $0.015.
And currencies by the way don't move together.
The yen and the euro kind of have been moving opposite to each other.
So it depends on -- I mean I think Tom is answering 5% bad on both.
That kind of doesn't happen that way.
So his answer is for maybe 10% bad on one and 5% good on the other one.
And as I said in my remarks we've got the euro at 1.3 and we have the yen at 100 in our model for the second half.
So the impact of FX as we've moved assets around and as our net U.S.
equity exposure has grown to 75% this quarter the impact of FX movements is diminishing in our portfolio.
And we would like to take that our long-term equity exposure even up above 80%.
We're going to do our best to mitigate that.
The hedging strategies the hedges we've put in place this quarter were part of that strategy.
And we're going to continue to look for ways to further minimize that FX exposure.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering can you talk a little bit about once you get past 2013 what you see as a normalized level of disposition activities for the model? And not trying to sneak a second question in there but Tom a few questions ago you referred to a 2014 promote.
Can you just say is it expected to be similar in size to what we had this year? I'll answer the second question first.
I won't get into the size of the promotes.
We'll wait and see how the performance continues out.
But the bottom line is we were coming into a cycle where we believe we're going to see promotes on an annual basis from a variety of our funds.
And we're obviously seeing significant asset appreciation around the world and we see a lot of rent growth.
So I think that bodes well for future promote levels.
And with respect to sales I would be very surprised if our average volume of sales in the next couple of years would be outside of $500 million to $1 billion.
$500 million to $1 billion a year.
So it won't be lower than that and it won't be higher than that would be my best answer to you right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Hamid I think you mentioned in your comments about a new enterprise system.
Can you talk about the benefits you see from that new rollout? And also just I believe on the last call you talked about an 80% equity target for the U.S.
just given the increase in deployment.
How quickly do you think you can get there? Okay.
Could you clarify the second question? I'm not sure I quite understood that.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
You talked about U.S.
equity exposure of 80%.
I think Tom gave in his prepared remarks -- I think he said a 600-basis-point increase you had in the quarter.
Just given the increase in deployment how fast do you think you can get to that kind of 80% target? Okay.
80% would be by year end.
And my target is 100%.
Tom's target is 90%.
We're negotiating on that one.
That one's true.
And that will take us probably another year or 2 but we'll get to 80% by year end no question about it.
The ERP once fully implemented then we are like 90-plus percent implemented will allow us to do 2 things.
One it will allow us to do some tactical stuff much more efficiently in terms of accounting for our assets knowing our historic operating metrics being able to ask all your questions much more efficiently in many different ways.
So it will give us a much more efficient way of looking backwards.
This is a simple way of thinking about it.
I think its most important benefit however is that it will allow us to capture information on real time tenant activity traffic activity through a CRM system that we're doing and also forecasting 10-year forecasting on a dynamic basis so we know the value of our assets all the time on a real life basis as opposed to this sort of cap rate approach.
Once we get there I think we'll be hopefully a lot smarter about what's happening down the road as opposed to what happened in the past.
So efficiency is goal #1 and better market insight is goal #2 on full implementation.
With respect to the -- I want to go back and answer a question that I think John asked that my colleagues just reminded me that I didn't answer the optimal size of the portfolio.
I think the optimal size needs to be defined by a market.
For us to go into a bunch of new markets and grow $10 billion by doing a couple of $100 million here and a couple of $100 million there that would be insane.
It doesn't move the needle on a company of our size and frankly we'll have reverse efficiencies.
We want to deepen in our existing markets.
And I don't think there is a top side to how much we can drive efficiencies.
I think we now particularly with the ERP system in place can scale very very efficiently as long as the assets are in the same markets where we already have a presence.
It becomes really easy.
New markets are a different story.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Petersen with MLV &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Just I was hoping you could help us better understand the $750 million ATM program that you recently put in place.
Just kind of how you expect to use the proceeds or if you expect to use the proceeds do you expect to kind of trickle it out over time to fund developments or use it here and there for acquisitions? Or is it something you're going to have to keep your options open? And then also just in terms of guidance what's assumed in terms of that program? Okay.
So right now as you said Jon we're going to use it on an as-needed basis.
Right now given our sources and uses that we see in our model [indiscernible] to raise equity we're always going to watch our long-term capital goals.
But foremost we're going to have to be at the stock price where we're trading at a premium to NAV number one where we're valued.
And then number two we'll look at our various funding sources across all of our different -- our capital stack and make a determination.
But right now there wouldn't be an equity raised embedded in our guidance in the second half.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Rodgers with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Now U.S.
industrial supply this year I think coming in around 60 million or 65 million square feet and just kind of highlighting the domestic market.
You guys are about 5 million or 6 million square feet of that or 8% or 10%.
As you look forward I think just reading between the lines you're talking about maybe ramping up to a 20 million square foot annual number for the U.S.
I guess 2 questions.
Can you one comment on -- if you continue to be about 10% of the overall market that it implied about 200 million square feet starts for the U.S.
over the next couple of years.
One can the market handle that? And two can you comment on I guess your competitors' ability to kind of deliver the same type of supply that you're thinking about profitably? Yes this is Gene.
Let me start with that.
First of all I don't think we're going to get to 20% of the market.
We also don't think that supply is going to be so anemic at 65 million feet so that's going to grow.
And we really don't think of market share as either a catalyst to build more or some type of ceiling.
We just simply look at market opportunity.
But in terms of our ability to deliver space first the first threshold is is the market there? Right now the market is there for sure.
I mean we've talked about the excess demand we see.
And the second is the capacity of our infrastructure.
And we can probably double our current volume adding only arms and legs at the shield levels.
So capacity of the organization is there.
But the one thing I want to stress is that and we've referenced it earlier on the call we will build based on demand not based on what our competitors are doing or some arbitrary share of the market we're trying to hit.
And then finally as I think about our competitors' ability to deliver space well it's been -- there's been a lot less supply than we expected.
We do have competitors.
They have been cautious so far.
And ultimately the landscape in the U.S.
has changed quite a bit.
The old local developer model really is -- doesn't exist anymore.
It's really mostly institutional capital.
We're watching it carefully but I think we'll be -- we'll have a less volatile supply environment going forward because of that.
Yes.
We're not going to -- just to be clear we're not going to do 20 million square feet in the U.S.
We've never done 20 million square feet in the U.S.
That will be $1 billion in the U.S.
not going to happen.
The beautiful thing about our platform is that it's sort of diverse.
We have the ability to choose where we develop.
And what we're trying to prove out is that we can build $2.5 billion on a run rate basis we deliver 15% margins year in and year out.
It's a sustainable profitable business.
And we're advantaged relative to our competitors because of our platform and our choice.
Your next question comes from line of Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
That promote you booked this quarter how much of that is influenced by you taking out -- taking full ownership of that JV? Because I think that's uncommon from what you've done in the past 2 -- if you look at promote just because of the closing of the JV itself.
And second it seems like it may be the quarter that promotes becomes a bigger picture of your company.
If nothing changes in the industrial landscape from a rent growth perspective what is the approximate level of promotes that are already embedded in your portfolio that you can probably at the very least expect to see in 2014 and beyond? Sure Ki.
This is Guy.
I'm going to take the first one and then I think maybe Hamid will take your second one.
The promote on the Fund II was based on the price we paid for the assets which was determined by appraisals.
So there really was no impact on the amount of the promote based on pricing and how we structured the deal.
The only thing it might have done is accelerated the timing of the closing.
So if it's an IRR-driven fund or an IRR-driven promote the fact that the investors got cash all at once versus a series of sales over a period of time might have an infinitesimal amount.
But there's nothing in the structure that influence the promote.
Yes.
And with respect to future levels of promotes tough to speculate.
It all depends on what that terminal value ends up being.
But over time I think you've heard me say before that we think promotes across the cycle should be on the order of 15 to 25 basis points of assets under management year in and year out.
But there will be some years where there will be no promote and some years where there would be a promote.
The good news is that we by and large don't put it into our guidance.
And you guys don't give us credit for it anyway.
So I guess it's not -- we don't worry about it a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
It's just a quick follow-up sort of.
You mentioned leverage on an asset value basis by the end of the year.
Where is that on debt to EBITDA? That's number one.
Number two if you look at CapEx on Page 16 on the trailing 4-quarter basis that has been consistently rising.
That's almost 15% this quarter relative to 12% at this point last year.
Again it's trailing 12.
So it's a smooth number.
Where is that -- is that going to -- are we going to go on the other side of that at some point? Because obviously 300 basis points of NOI increases is a lot over the course of the year.
And then just lastly my prior question.
You talked -- you didn't actually give me the numbers.
What was going to be in the back half of the year in terms of deployment and sales? If you can actually break out the dollars your share so that we really understand the ins and outs of what's happening on the balance sheet that would be helpful.
Yes.
Michael let me tell you.
We're not going to predict to the nearest dollar what the deployment activity is going to be in the back end of the year because a lot of those things are up in the air and may or may not happen.
And so we're not going to -- I think I'll have to review directional guidance but we can't give you specific guidance on things that haven't happened yet.
So that's the answer to that.
As to the CapEx question Gene why don't you take that? Yes sure.
Michael so let me -- it's going to be sort of a little bit of an essay answer.
The punchline is that we think total CapEx as a percentage of NOI is going to decline in quarters ahead and be in the range of 13% to 14%.
That's sort of the best estimate I can give you.
But the way we look -- and we have tried to improve the disclosure in the supplemental as Tom mentioned and give it to you in the way we think about capital.
So you got basic property improvements which are not affected by leasing volume and are constant.
We think the best way to look at that is the trailing 4-quarter average and that's pretty flat at about 600 square foot and it's been flat for quite a long time.
And then turnover costs which represent the majority of capital we track as a percentage of the total rental value of the leases in that period.
That's very important because you've got to take into consideration rent levels and lease terms in other words what you're getting in return for the turnover costs.
And this metric is fairly steady in the mid- to high 8% range.
So the bottom line is we see capital as being fairly steady in terms of a trend line.
If you look simply at CapEx as a percentage of NOI you get a lot of noise because we think volume dramatically affects it over time.
So our current curve so to speak has an upward trend to it.
Over time that's going to be as I said in the 13% or 14% range.
Well one other thing is that leases now in the cycle are getting longer so the commissions are getting bigger.
That's why you want to look at it as a percentage of the lease consideration and not on a per square foot basis.
We purposefully didn't want to sign long-term leases during the downturn.
We do want to sign longer-term leases as the market approaches replacement cost trends.
So that alone will drive that number up on a per foot basis but hopefully not as a percentage of the lease consideration.
And Michael on your debt-to-EBITDA question we see debt to EBITDA about 6.75 at the end of the year.
And debt to EBITDA adjusted for development would be about 5.75 at the end of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on the development and capital deployment outlook.
The margins in the quarter came in and I guess we're right around 14% kind of in line with the 12% to 15% longer-term target that you have but down from 20% which what you guys were sort of over-earning I guess if you will the past several quarters.
So first do you think that those excess margins of 20% that that is likely over with now and we're in a much more normalized environment going forward? And then second maybe can you frame up why the development yields would come in the margins would come in given that it seems like rent growth is accelerating? Your land bank is worth more now.
And it would seem that the fundamentals are more positive.
So I would think that on a historical land cost that doesn't change that that margin is actually -- would have been accelerating a little bit as opposed to coming in a little bit.
This is Mike Curless.
I think it's -- I don't get too worked up about any given quarter with respect to margins.
I like to look at this over the long haul as Hamid mentioned.
And if you look at the entire year our margins are right at 17.5% which is entirely consistent with our 10-quarter plan of about 18%.
So if you look over the broad spectrum I think it indicates a couple of things.
One our level of land control and customer control is driving strong margins.
We're building spec in the right spots where the fundamentals are strong.
And furthermore I think it points to our land bank's value where at 18% margins versus in excess 3% or 4% of expected margins can point to an uplift in our land of 20% or so in our land bank.
So net-net I think we feel really good about these margins and expect those to continue throughout the rest of the year.
Brendan let me be even more precise.
I think this would be a low mark in the near term and there's a margin you'll see coming through.
And at the answer -- when we answered the question about margins we're talking about margins if you were to buy a new land and build a new property.
To the extent that our land bank being undervalued is adding to excess margin that is why we're arguing or you've heard us say before that we think our land bank is undervalued.
So I don't -- I think if we were to go buy a piece of land today and build it with the rent that we pro forma the margins would be in the low to mid-teens.
With our actual land bank at historical book and some of it impaired I think the margins are going to be a lot higher than that.
And I think this quarter is a bit of an aberration.
But the long-term margins in this business are not 20%.
They're a little bit lower than that.
Your last question comes from the line of Jamie Feldman with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Tom just turning to the operating expenses in the same-store presentation.
If you look at the last 4 quarters they've really fluctuated.
I think they were 3.5% in the second quarter.
How are you thinking about that going forward? And maybe like if you compare 1Q '13 at 9% to 2Q '13 at 3.5% what were the major differences? Jamie this is Tom.
So there is noise that goes through camp.
There's some seasonality to it some true-ups that we've had.
There's always the famous no removal or lockups.
No that's right.
There's variances in the first half of the year.
But I do think the variances are going to settle down as we go forward.
So I would expect to see same-store operating expenses to normalize quite frankly at inflation.
There are no further questions in queue at this time.
I turn the conference back over to our presenters.
Okay.
Thank you everybody and we look forward to seeing many of you in September in sunny San Francisco.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tiffany and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Prologis Third Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Tracy Ward Senior Vice President Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Tiffany and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our third quarter 2013 conference call.
The supplemental document is available on our website at prologis.com under Investor Relations.
This morning we'll hear from Hamid Moghadam Chairman and CEO who will comment on the company's strategy and market condition; and then from Tom Olinger our CFO who will cover results and guidance.
Additionally we are joined today by our executive team including Gary Anderson Mike Curless Nancy Hemmenway Guy Jaquier Ed Nekritz Gene Reilly and Diana Scott.
Before we begin our prepared remarks I'd like to quickly state that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements under federal securities laws.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates and projections about the market and the industry in which Prologis operates as well as management's beliefs and assumptions.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and actual operating results may be affected by a variety of factors.
For a list of those factors please refer to our forward-looking statement notice in our 10-K or SEC filings.
I'd also like to state that our third quarter results press release and supplemental do contain financial measures such as FFO EBITDA that are non-GAAP measures and in accordance with Reg G we have provided a reconciliation to those measures.
[Operator Instructions] Hamid will you please begin? Thank you Tracy and good morning everyone.
It's only been a month since our Investor Forum so we'll keep today's remarks brief and focus on the company's growth objectives real-time market conditions and results.
As you know our strategy going forward is simple.
Our focus is on 3 growth drivers which are: number one capitalizing on rental recovery; number two putting our land bank development expertise and customer relationships to work within value; and number three leveraging our global scale.
Let's take these one at a time starting with rent.
We expect significant organic rent growth to come from the U.S.
and Europe over the next 4 years.
In fact this is already materializing as we realized the 6.1% increase in net effective rents on rollovers this quarter.
The supply/demand indicators that we've been discussing for some time are coming in even stronger than we expected.
U.S.
net absorption for the quarter was 55 million square feet running almost 3x the volume of completions.
We're further increasing our 2013 net absorption forecast for the U.S.
to 200 million square feet up from 180 million square feet.
This will be the highest level in absorption since 2006 and still significantly below the norm for expansion.
This means there may still be some upside to this forecast based on what we're hearing from our customers.
Space utilization in our facilities continues to trend higher setting another record in the quarter.
This means that our larger customers are short on space and unable to handle their current needs much less their future growth.
Now let's look at supply.
While there's no question that supply is increasing it's important to remember that we're starting from the basement.
The financial crisis drove construction to its lowest level since World War II.
We are expecting 65 million square feet of completion this year the majority of which are build-to-suits or are pre-released.
To put this in perspective these completion rates are very low in relation to the projected net absorption for the year.
This record deficit of 135 million square feet doesn't even take into account product obsolescence.
As a result of this excess demand we're forecasting the U.S.
market vacancy rate to drop to 7.3% by year end matching its prior cycle low in 2007.
Pulling this all together our sector has substantial room for growth.
You may recall from our previous commentary that the recovery of investor of fundamentals has lagged the recovery of the macro economy.
Occupied space rents only 1% above its 2007 level while imports are 9% higher and GDP consumption and population are all 5% to 6% higher.
Turning elsewhere in the Americas.
Despite a slowing overall economy in Brazil demand for modern logistics base remain strong as the company need to serve the growing consumer market.
In Mexico the logistics market is a strengthening with growth from domestic consumption and exports to the U.S.
Moving to Europe.
Operating fundamentals continue to improve and for the first time in 4 years sentiment among our customers is trending positive.
Net effective rents are growing and recovery is broadening to more markets.
Rent growth combined with declining cap rates will lead to a strong recovery in European values.
Demand in China is accelerating.
We see new requirements from domestic retailers and e-commerce customers.
Vacancy rates are extremely tight and growth rate -- and the growth in rents are quite strong with some submarkets well above 10% year-over-year.
In Japan demand has kept pace with supply but leasing velocity is beginning to exceed our expectations.
With the 2020 Olympics and improving economic environment and tightening market conditions we expect to see increases on rents in excess of forecast.
As we look forward we see several years of favorable market conditions across all our markets pushing occupancy to levels last seen in the 90s supporting our seasons of an extended period of rental growth.
I'd now like to return to our value creation activities.
The lack of supply and increasing rents continue to drive our development starts.
During the quarter we started 17 new projects totaling $494 million globally with an estimated development margin of 19% 2/3 of these were build-to-suit.
We stabilized $500 million of development projects with an estimated margin of 38% creating $190 million of value.
We will surely grow through our value creation objectives for the year.
The high-profit spread is driven by the surge in rents and low-land basis.
While we don't expect to sustain this level of margins indefinitely they will remain elevated for some time to come.
The current level clearly supports the fact that the book value for our land is significantly below its fair market value.
By a way of reminder only 1 analyst is currently ascribing any value to our development platform in this any recalculation in spite of consistent profitability of these businesses and some relevant recent comps in the marketplace.
Turning to the third area of growth we'll use our scale to expand in our existing markets and increase our profitability.
We have the capacity to take on $10 billion in overall assets in our existing markets without a substantial increase in G&amp;A.
In the third quarter we grew the platform by more than $1 billion and reduced the ratio of G&amp;A to AUM from 70 to 68 basis points.
Although this metric will bounce around between quarters we expect to improve on with this ratio as we continue to grow our role assets.
Looking to strategic capital the third quarter marks our largest single quarter in the history of capital raising for our open and fund business.
We see an important dynamic on probing.
Small to mid-size investors are committing new capital and considering allocations at levels not seen since the global financial crisis.
What we hear from them is that they're underallocated to investor real estate and seeking general partner will keep operating in sector experience.
Looking ahead we have a healthy investment key with strong interest evidenced by a number of investors in various stages of due diligence.
To sum up we are very optimistic about the recovery in the global investor and real estate market.
We are well positioned to take advantage of the unique opportunity that legally will arise through this -- through the strength of our platform.
With that I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Hamid.
This morning I'll focus my comments on 3 areas: first results for the quarter; second a review of deployment and capital markets activity; and third an update on guidance for the remainder of the year.
Starting with our financial results for the third quarter core FFO was $0.41 a share in line with our expectations.
From a core FFO run rate perspective Q3 was up about $0.02 from Q2 excluding the promote we recognized last quarter.
This higher sequential run rate was driven by the deployment of proceeds from our first half contributions and equity offering.
During the quarter we stabilized $500 million in developments with $165 million our share value creation representing a 38% margin.
We continue to see improvement in our operating portfolio metrics this quarter.
Occupancy was 93.9% up 20 basis points from the second quarter.
Spaces over 250 000 square feet remain effectively sold out with occupancy at 98.2%.
For spaces less than 100 000 square feet occupancy was 90% up 60 basis points sequentially.
We saw a significant increase in average lease term for the quarter at 59 months which was driven by leases signed for build-to-suit projects.
Rent growth continues to accelerate broadly.
GAAP rent changes on rollover was 6.1% up 210 basis points sequentially and evident across all geographic divisions and space sizes as well as new and renewal leases.
It's important to point out that our rent change calculation includes all leases signed during the quarter greater than 30 days for both new and renewal leases and regardless of how long the spaces were vacant.
As we stated before we think the most meaningful metric is net effective rent change.
However to provide you with perspective cash rent change on rollover was a positive 0.4% up 380 basis points sequentially.
For the quarter same-store NOI increased 1.4% on a GAAP basis and 1.8% on an adjusted cash basis.
Same-store NOI will lag releasing spreads given that the NOI results we report in the third quarter primarily relate to leases signed in the first half the year.
Moving to Investment Management income was higher this quarter by almost $5 million due to growth in assets under management primarily related to contributions to our J-REIT.
On a go forward run rate basis Investment Management income will grow in line with assets and fluctuate with these associated with fund deployment and promotes.
Turning to our deployment activity in the third quarter.
We had contributions and dispositions of $792 million with $361 million our share.
We invested $1.9 billion in building and land acquisitions development starts and equity investments in our ventures with $1.5 billion our share.
Subsequent to quarter end we acquired our venture partners of approximate 80% interest in the SGP Mexico fund.
We had an opportunity to acquire these high-quality assets before the end of the investment period and are pleased to rationalize another fund.
Moving onto capital markets' activity in the quarter.
We continue to make significant progress in lowering our borrowing costs and extending our debt maturities providing us with further flexibility to fund growth.
In the third quarter we completed approximately $6.3 billion of capital markets transactions including debt financings refinancings and pay downs.
This included the upsizing of our 2 global lines of credit the issuance of new senior notes and attentive.
As a result of this activity we lowered our weighted-average GAAP interest rate by about 30 bps and increased the weighted average term by nearly 6 months.
Our next significant debt maturity is not occurring until October 2014 and after that we have no material maturities until 2016.
As a reminder the weighted average GAAP interest rates shown in our supplemental for unsecured bonds and secured mortgage debt is approximately 5.1% which compares to a coupon rate for this debt over the next 5 years of 6%.
As we discussed at our investor forum even in a rising interest rate environment we have an opportunity to refinance or debt extend term and continue to reduce borrowing costs in a very meaningful way.
We did see a temporary increase in leverage this quarter given timing around deployment.
At quarter end our look through leverage was 37.9% net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 7.7x and fixed charge coverage increased to 2.6x.
We continue to expect to end the year with look through leverage below 35% and debt to adjusted EBITDA under 7x.
Now let me turn to guidance for the remainder of 2013.
For operations our previous GAAP same-store NOI range was between 1.5% and 2.5%.
As we've discussed on prior calls we've been focusing on driving rent growth over occupancy which temporarily impacts same-store NOI in the short term but propels it in the long-term.
We expect to be at the low end of this range for the full year.
We expect year-end occupancy will range between 94% and 95%.
For FX we're assuming the euro at 1.35 and the yen at 98 [ph] for the fourth quarter.
On expense side we're forecasting our net G&amp;A to range between $228 million to $232 million.
For capital deployment we're narrowing our 2013 forecast to range between $3.8 billion to $4.1 billion.
This includes development starts of $1.8 billion to $1.9 billion for the year which implies $600 million to $700 million in the fourth quarter with our share of approximately 75%.
This range is lower at the top and versus our previous guidance as a result of timing.
Building acquisitions of $800 million to $1 billion for the year with $120 million to $320 million occurring in the fourth quarter with our share of about 45% and $1.2 billion of equity investments in our funds which we completed as of the end of the third quarter.
We're not expecting to make any further significant fund investments for the rest of the year.
Switching to development stabilizations.
We expect to stabilize about $1.4 billion in 2013 and an estimated margin of approximately 28% generating our share value creation of $350 million.
For contributions and dispositions we're maintaining our guidance of $8.5 billion to $10 billion.
Year-to-date we've completed $6.6 billion.
This leaves $1.9 billion to $3.4 billion for the fourth quarter with our share of the proceeds at about 80%.
The remaining activity relates to contributions in Europe and Japan and dispositions in the U.S.
and Japan.
In addition this range also includes a couple of potential transactions that could materialize by year end.
Now putting all of this together using the midpoints of our deployment contributions and disposition guidance we will generate approximately $1.6 billion our share of net proceeds in the fourth quarter.
We are narrowing our full year core FFO guidance to $1.64 to $1.66 per share which implies Q4 core FFO range between $0.41 and $0.43 a share.
Before I turn it back to Hamid I want to highlight 2 new enhancements in our supplemental this quarter.
The first relates to disclosure on stabilized value creation.
As we shared at the Investor Forum transparency into our ability to create value through development is a key to understanding this important business.
This disclosure will allow you to gauge our ability to consistently create value from development over the long term.
The second disclosure highlights our net equity exposure by currency.
Our U.S.
dollar and equity at quarter end was 73% and we've continued to expect to be at approximately 82% by year end.
With that I'll turn it back to Hamid.
Thanks Tom.
Let me close by summarizing the key takeaways from our call.
Absorption in the U.S.
is outpacing supply and vacancy is dropping faster than we expected supporting the case for an extended period of significant rental growth.
For Europe the rental recovery combined with what we believe to be a significant cap rate compression over the next 12 months is expected to lead with strong recovery in values.
And the combination of rental growth to profitable buildout of our land bank and improvements in efficiencies resulting from scale set us up nicely for an extended period of robust earnings growth.
Let's open up the call to your questions.
Tiffany? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I want to ask a question about the same-store appreciate the update on the guidance Tom.
If I'm thinking about it correctly in what you guys have done year-to-date it still implies a pretty big ramp in Q4 and given that you're focused a little more on rent growth than occupancy growth just wondering how you get there and can you also provide a little bit of commentary on why the operating expenses seem to be higher in '13 versus '12 and what that may do as we go into next year.
Okay Brendan thanks.
On same-store you're right we think we're going to end at the low end of our range and we've been focusing on rent change for sure on our rents and not so much on occupancy.
And we've seen occupancy be a little below where we thought it would be hence the low end of the guidance.
But we feel very good about the trend.
If you look at our GAAP same-store throughout the year 0.3% in Q1 to 0.7% in Q2 then now 1.4% we're on a very positive trajectory.
The other thing to note if you look at rent change the rent change figure we report reflects signings in the quarter and the signings are typically 3 to 6 months in advance of the effective date so there's a natural lag between the rent change we're reporting today in Q3.
And when that will actually come through our NOI is a couple of quarter lag.
So you put those together we feel good about the trajectory of our same-store growth.
On the expense side I think there's nothing systemic going on at all.
On expenses it's just timing.
Your next question comes from the line of Vance Edelson with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A lot of skeptics out there are surprised at the continued strong absorption just given a fairly tepid U.S.
economic recovery and disappointing job growth which ultimately should weigh on the shipment of goods.
How are you feeling about the continued strength of the economic recovery based on your conversations with tenants? And also how do you feel about your own ability to outperform? Vance I don't think we're outperforming nor is the industrial market outperforming.
I think there's a false impression out there that I'd like to correct and I tried to do it in the prepared remarks.
In occupied industrial space is only 1% prior to where it was in 2007.
Yet imports are 9% higher GDP consumption every other measure people just population every other measure drive industrial demand it's 5% to 6% higher.
So we still got another 4% to grow before we catch up with the other economic parameters.
So we're not ahead of any economy.
We're behind and hopefully quickly catching up but still pretty significantly behind.
So I think it will last longer.
Whenever the U.S.
economy normalizes I think industrial demand is going to exceed that for some period of time until it gets back into North.
It's very simple.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Spector with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> This is Jaime Feldman with Jeff.
So I guess with fundamentals a little bit ahead of what you guys originally thought what does this mean for your prospects for development starts and timing to reach kind of your peak outlook for development starts? We don't have a peak outlook for development starts.
What we've said for about 3.5 years is that we expect in a normalized year development to be about $2.5 billion.
That's really a buildup of individual market opportunities as our people see them.
That is not a target.
We're not shooting to any given target.
That's what we think it will be across the cycle.
And frankly we'll get there whenever we get there.
I mean -- and we may exceed it for a period of time we may fall short over a period of time.
It's not the target.
The good news is that we're making $300 million to $400 million in that business and none of that is reflected in any kind of valuation.
So I guess it's not a very sensitive number.
Your next question comes from the line of Gabe Hilmoe with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Tom on the disposition and contribution guidance how should we think about Mexico and the Mexican REIT for that equation? I'm just trying to get a sense of the pieces to get your guidance.
Well the -- Mexico is not in our guidance at all.
I think another way of saying that is that there isn't any change in Mexico anticipated in our guidance.
Your next question comes from the line of George Auerbach with ISI group.
Research Division</strong> The cash spread will spread -- clearly improved this quarter.
As we look out to 2014 how do you see cash rent spreads can trend? I'm sure the spreads will improve but any color as to how positive you think they can be? Yes George as we've talked about before we actually don't think that's an important number.
And here's why.
Because I think this is a really important question and we're not apartments we have leases that are usually 5 years in duration.
So take a normal situation where you have a 5-year lease with 2% escalations every year okay? The ending rent on that lease from a cash point of view will be 10% higher than the beginning rent on that lease just very simply.
And if the market keeps going at 2% that starting number for the new lease will be identical to the ending number for the old lease.
So if we're doing our job and getting escalations in all the leases that we signed that metric will always be 0 which is pretty disappointing.
However if we did something less optimal we signed flat leases for 5 years and never got any rental escalations that statistic would look great because it would say 10% change on lease expirations.
So I don't understand for the life of me why that metric is important.
And we don't spend any time projecting it.
So I really in all honesty can't answer your question because it doesn't really drive any value in our business.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Mailman with KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> Hamid just one -- curious about your comment in the release about tenants kind of just taking space where they need now or not expansion space.
Just with rents going higher and absorption continuing and good space is being taken up here kind of what's going to drive beneath them to take a little bit of perspective space for growth in their business just curious what tenants are saying.
So Craig that's a really good question.
A day or 2 after we had -- or actually a day or 2 before we had our Investor Forum with you guys we actually had the top customers from around the world here in San Francisco and we were trying to get their perspective and share with them ours.
I think what's going on is that companies are laser focused on margins and costs because their revenue growth has been anemic so they try to basically produce the bottom line by being really vigilant on cost.
They've been doing that for 4 or 5 years and frankly they're out of opportunities to do that.
They would like to do more of it but they can't.
So anytime somebody has to make a decision okay do I build 1 million square foot warehouse which is probably going to be a $70 million investment with another $100 million of inventory and improvements in it ultimately to run my business.
That's a pretty big capital investment that the CEO has to make.
And if the CEO is reading the same newspapers as we are he's going to say "Okay let's just try to lease a little bit more extend our lease can we get the adjacent space in the same building or something." But they're trying to avoid making that big CapEx decision.
And by and large I would say they were successful until about a year or 2 ago.
They can't anymore.
They're just drifting at the same.
So the opportunity becomes losing business.
I think 1.5% vacancy in buildings larger than 250 000 feet really tells you something about how tight this space is and how high the utilization rate is.
I think if we get a bit of small business formation going that affects the smaller buildings 100 000 feet and lower I think you could see these occupancy rates go up in excess of 95% 96% pretty quickly because the supply side is not going to be able to catch up with us that quickly.
So we think it's a pretty interesting dynamic.
People are trying to defer major capital investments as much as they can but they can't anymore.
They've got to take space.
And you're seeing it for some of the large players.
Gene do you have any perspective you want to add to that? Yes I think the only area we're seeing some kind of forward thinking is really in online retailers.
So a lot of build-to-suit demand as all of you know is coming from that segment where it's basically a new business line and in some cases it's very defensive a lot of the bricks and mortar retailers you're going to see a lot of build-to-suit demand from traditional bricks and mortar retailers trying to compete with Amazon and that's defensive.
So in those cases you're going to see them wanting to take more space and making capital investment.
But otherwise I mean it's right.
They've been reluctant to do so.
But when your utilization rate is peaked out and the market vacancies are low you don't really have any choices.
I'd just add that I think a customer said that it's a little bit different geography to geography.
If you think about Europe for example there has certainly been a return of confidence in Europe but it's still a mixed picture.
But generally speaking I think things are improving.
You look at Japan I mean customer sentiment is very high in Japan today first because of the Abe economic policies and now because of the 2020 Olympics so very very positive sentiment there.
And in China sentiment hasn't changed in a while it's just very very strong.
And in fact again a day or 2 ago GDP came out it was 7.8% [ph] as opposed to 7.7%.
So again pretty strong sentiment in Asia in general.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Tom I just had a question just sort of putting all the pieces together in your guidance but also thinking about the run rate.
So you had about $0.41 of core FFO in the quarter your guidance for the year implies let's call $0.42 $0.43 I recognized the year share count was a little bit higher than the first few quarters but somewhere in that range of $0.42 $0.43 yet you have $1.6 billion of dispositions in terms of proceeds and I don't know what you're doing with that money not only thinking about what's happening in the fourth quarter but as you move forward into 2014 The Street currently is at $1.78 almost $0.45 a quarter.
How do you sort of make the leap from where you are today to that point but also even into the fourth quarter with the deleveraging that's occurring? Well as you look forward we will be redeploying that capital that we're generating in the fourth quarter but there will be a time lag but you have to remember when you look at our earnings from a run rate perspective we're stabilizing $1.4 billion of real estate in 2013.
That comes into producing NOI.
We continue to have rent growth.
We've seen it.
The same-store is following that but it's coming.
And we also have the effect of discontinued deleveraging.
The impact of what we've done in the last really 3 quarters from an interest rate perspective now is coming through full force.
So there will be a lag in redeploying that capital probably in the first quarter of next year as we look out.
But I think we'll get right back on track and we've got other drivers i.e.
development stabilizations and rent growth that help offset that.
Your next question comes from line of John Guinee with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to focus a little bit on net asset value.
It looks to me as if your FFO and AFFO numbers are based on about 504.5 million share denominator.
But then when I look at Page 32 you list your common stock as 498.6 million shares and then when I go back into the supplemental you have the effect of some exchangeable debt.
So your total share count is about 517 million shares.
Can you help us sort of walk through the differences here specifically on the correct denominator for an NAV analysis? The correct denominator would be the smaller of the 2 numbers because what you're seeing is that the impact of effectively converting our convertible debt.
That convertible debt that sits out there the denominator and the larger when it's 500 million plus assumes that that those shares are exercised to convert that debt.
So it's clearly the -- that is the main driver of the difference.
And when you look at our NAV page you should be using the 498 million that is the right number to use for NAV.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Petersen with MLV Company.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate in your disclosure around the development value creation page and supplemental.
Can you help us quantify I'm kind of curious how much of the 38% margin this quarter is directly related to the lower land bank value? And then also can you just kind of walk us through how you underwrite developments to get to the 19% forecast on margins for start this quarter? I'm trying to get a sense of like how you guys think about cap rates going forward rents do you use today's rents or projected rents just trying to get a sense of how conservative that is given how large margins are today.
Generally the way we underwrite development deals is that we use our market forecast for rents the same market forecast that drive our operating assumptions and all that.
So they could be flat they could be up.
In majority of cases today they're up and actually we've been exceeding those expectations and pretty much most of the development that we've been stabilizing.
So in other words we've been underestimating rental growth.
Cap rates by and large we don't underwrite cap rate compression in our developments at all.
In fact I would say that in a few of them right now we have baked in some cap rate -- slight cap rate expansion.
So I think the normal margins as you've heard me say many times I think in a normalized market when you're buying land at markets for spec should be around 15 and for a very high credit build-to-suit should be as low as 10 so the average should be 12 13 14 depending on the mix.
So you can think of -- forget about the 38.
The 38 is just a goofy number in some unusual cases.
It's real money but it's not a sustainable number.
I think yes we've been averaging in the high teens call it 19 and if the average is 14 should be that means there's 5 points of excess margin and if land is 25% of the total investment 5 points on 25% means that your land is undervalued by 20%.
That's the quick math.
It depends on parcel by parcel but that would be the quick math.
So I don't know our land bank is $1.8 billion and if you apply the 20% to it you could argue that it's worth $350 million more than that.
The only other comment we might want to make is that we've taken our weighted average cost of capital for every geography.
Right.
So the margin is after an overhead allocation and it's also after full carry at the cost of capital of a given market which would be for example higher in China and Brazil than it would be in the U.S.
and Japan..
Which differs from the GAAP carrier rate that gets reported.
Yes and it's higher.
Yes and just to finish the last part of his question relative to the pool of the stabilizations those 2 facilities that were driving the numbers higher by over 2/3 of the tank well [ph] was well over 20% and I'd suggest that those all had implied increase land value as well.
Your next question comes from line of Eric Frankel with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering one if you can just go over why CapEx seems to be a little bit elevated relative to historical figures? And 2 just noted that there weren't any starts from Japan this quarter just wondering if there is any supply concerns there? Eric it's Gene.
I'll take the capital.
In a couple of calls ago we talked about this.
If we look at a CapEx overall that trailing fourth quarter number is ticking up a little bit.
But remember that takes into consideration lease expenses and turnover costs which tend to be volatile and those are going to be going up on a dollar basis because we're signing longer leases and higher rents and that's going to trigger higher commissions and probably slightly higher TI.
But the best way to take a look at that is on Page 15 of the supplemental where we talked about turnover costs as a percentage of the value of the lease because that's the right metric to think about.
We're investing this capital to get in return a lease and that's actually declining quarter-over-quarter.
I think that's probably going to stay at the sort of low 7s.
But in terms of overall capital as I said we were ticking along at 12% through the last year or so that's up to 14% 15% close to 15% right now.
That will settle out 13% to 14% in the long-term.
And it may take a quarter or 2 to get there the reason for that is we're -- through our dispositions and repositioning program we're reducing the age of this portfolio increasing the quality.
And that has a significant effect on our normal capital that we spend roofs and parking lots.
So it's elevated this quarter but over the long-term you're going to see that come down to 13% 14%.
And Eric with respect to Japan we started 2 buildings in Japan couple $100 million.
We said generally speaking that we would expect to start somewhere in the range of $400 million to $500 million per year and that's still our general view.
I am not at all concerned about demand and supply in Japan.
They're still well-balanced.
The new deliveries that are coming to market are basically ending up being pre-leased as they come to market.
And you will see a slight uptick in 2014 in terms of vacancy rates they're going to move from call it 1% to 2% to call it 4% or 5% but that's still very very low.
So we're pretty comfortable with Japan.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Sullivan with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you share with us the cap rate on the buyout of your partner in Mexican fund? Jim we can't for confidentiality reasons.
But you're a smart enough guy you can figure it out.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you discuss -- give a little bit of color on leasing trends in Europe for the quarter there? And then also just give any amount of influence you've seen into the investment management business there? Rich specifically for European funds can you just give us a sense of what kind of the return expectations are for the [indiscernible] coming in? Well in terms of leasing activity I think leasing has been pretty consistent in Europe.
I actually feel good about where our occupancy levels are today.
We've maintained 93% occupancy levels throughout the year and that percentage is actually going to increase I think by year end.
If you really dig into it though to see what's happening in Europe you really have to take a deeper look at each one of the countries.
We're operating in 14 different countries there.
Only 3 of those countries are below 90% occupancy levels today.
So in those markets we're solving for occupancy and those markets are the markets that we've talked about before: Spain Italy and Hungary.
Spain for example has increased in occupancy 700 basis points over the course of the last year.
And in the other markets like the U.K.
Germany Sweden Slovakia some of the stronger markets where you see occupancies at 97% 98% 99% we're pushing rents.
So again I think that the leasing trend is positive and the rent growth trends generally speaking in Europe is positive as well.
In terms of new investor activity there's been a ton of investor interest in our funds.
We've seen that manifest itself over the course of the quarter in terms of new investment.
Return expectations I think would probably be in the -- for core in the 8% to 9% range.
On leverage.
On leverage sorry.
Your next question comes from line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It looks like the Japan sequential occupancy dipped from Q2.
Was that a mix issue or is that something else in there driving it down? A single building issue.
We had a 620 000 square foot building come vacant in Sentrar [ph].
It was a consolidation play nothing to be concerned about.
I'm happy with that building coming back.
We'll get it leased up and that will look great again shortly.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Rodgers with Baird.
Research Division</strong> Follow-up on some of the smallest space leasing trends maybe since May or April of earlier this year I guess one would be a clarification question do you include your development leases in the average length and the TIs that you quote? Maybe Tony can give us some color on that and then I think the second part of that is really you got a higher margin length of deals you're signing you're singing larger deals as you said does that imply that you're seeing more challenges on leasing up the smaller space? And can you give us some more color about the small space leasing particularly in the last 6 months? Dave our leasing activity and the average trend does also include our development leasing.
And David it's Gene I'll take the second part of the question and I think Gary will provide some color too.
What we've really banked on in the small space leasing in the U.S.
we had a 90 basis points over the quarter by the way in sub 100 000 square foot units.
We've been banking on the housing recovery that's been a pretty good recovery until the last couple of months where if you look at the headline numbers the broad macroeconomic numbers that's flat total a little bit but I think that's a normal reaction to interest rates frankly spiking during the spring and early summer.
And we think this is going to resume and our customer activity tells us that that you'll see a continual increase in home building activity.
So we are I'm going to be really clear on this one we're really bullish about small space leasing and it's really broad based.
All of our markets in the Americas right now are active in terms of small spaces.
So we don't have any laggers anymore.
Places like Chicago and Atlanta which have been really slow to recover and particularly in that segment are active.
And we push rents 6% over the quarter in that segment.
And finally we'll see obviously small business job formation is going to be the future for that segment of our portfolio.
We'll see how that plays out over the next couple of years.
And one thing to remember the discount to replacement cost rents in that segment is more significant than any other.
There's 0 construction virtually in that segment and as it does recover that's our best chance to push rents in the portfolio.
So we're bullish at this point and the activity right now is pretty good despite what you see in the headlines.
And just with respect to the average lease term it did go from 49 to 59 this quarter it is driven really by the build-to-suit leasing.
If you look at the operating portfolio leases they were about 45 months the development leases were really 140 months skewed somewhat by a large deal that we did in the U.K.
with Sainsbury a build-to-suit that was a million square feet and 25-year lease.
So I think again it's underscoring that there's really limited opportunities in the greater than 250 000 square foot category and customers are having to go to build-to-suits big buildings long-term leases and they happen to pay replacement cost rents which again I think sort of underscores our rental growth projections.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Spector with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow-up it's Jamie again.
Can you talk about cap rates and just what's happened maybe over the quarter across your markets whether they're up or down or flat? Yes.
This is Mike Curless.
Frankly we thought we'd see broad stabilization of cap rates and we saw yet again a little bit of compression particularly in the coastal markets LA you're seeing 5 and tick below similar numbers in Bay Area and the East Coast middle of the country squarely in the 5s and 6s and where we saw the most compression continues to be in the B product in the global market as well as some select regional markets that markets like Las Vegas Indianapolis seeing some pretty impressive numbers in terms of their cap rate compression.
We do expect over time this to level out and that sees much compression going forward.
But in general positive news in the quarter.
In Europe we're seeing U.K.
breaking the 6 barrier into the 5s Central and Eastern Europe in the 7s and everywhere else somewhere in between.
I think as Gary mentioned before we got a good 100 points of room if not more in that part of the world and seeing good results in Asia and Brazil as well.
Jim just to add in China and Japan over the quarter we saw call it 10 basis points something like that.
But I was in Europe for Expo Real which is the big trade fair there.
And we met with vendors investors bankers competitors and I can only tell you that my prior view was reinforced.
We are absolutely at their inflection point I'm certain of that and values which really haven't moved in 4.5 years and they dropped call it 25% 26% from peak are about to move up.
And it's going to be a combination of 2 things: rental growth and cap rate compression.
And I think it's going to move faster than people realize.
Your next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just want to follow-up on land.
I think there were $25 million or $27 million of land sales in the quarter.
I know we've spoken a lot about what the value the current market value of the land bank maybe relative to the development margins that you're getting.
Just wondering if there were gains on those sales and what the magnitude of the gains may have been? If any.
Brendan this is Tom.
The gains on land that we did have gains it was pretty it was nominal.
Yes.
Remember what we're selling we're selling the stuff that we don't want to develop.
As you know we've categorized our land into a number of different buckets depending on the timeframe for monetization and also strategic fit.
And by and large we're still -- not by and large we're exclusively selling things that are not a strategic fit for our business.
So those would be the ones that you would expect the lowest spreads of fund.
And frankly as we're getting ready to sell them they've been scrapped on mark-to-markets so by definition they're held for sale and there should be nothing on those anyway.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-up questions regarding your -- the fund-raising activities.
First you raised your equity stake in a couple of your European funds.
So my first question is what is the appraised cap rate you're buying these funds at? Or buying these fund at versus an improving market in Europe and where you think spot rates could go maybe 6 months forward with maybe half a year better data points in Europe? And second with equity third party equity rates your rates are just a substantial amount of dry powder.
For your capital deployment activity how should we think about this going forward? And how much of this will you use to sell on balance sheet assets to your funds versus third party acquisitions? So generally in Europe the cap rates in our funds are in the mid-7s and that's where we've been deploying capital.
And as you heard a few minutes ago our view -- we don't have a 6 months view.
We're not that smart but we think in a couple of years cap rates in Europe can be for this still same asset can be in the mid-6s anyway.
So 100 points to 125 basis points of decline.
That would put them in their traditional historical relationship to U.S.
cap rates and global cap rates.
So we do think the opportunity in Europe is pretty unique that way.
I would say we are pretty much done with buying up in our funds.
I'm not going to say that we won't ever do any more of it in the near-term we might but I think we're substantially done with that program of investing in our funds.
And I don't remember the back half of your question.
[indiscernible] acquisitions.
What are you going to do with the dry powder.
We're going to buy on balance sheet...
Oh yes.
So we have -- remember the contributions from the balance sheet assets were essentially deferred for 3 or 4 years.
So there were a bunch of parks that had buildings built on them that were sitting on the balance sheet that normally belong to the funds because the funds we are dealing is the balance of those assets.
So many of the acquisitions that will take place in the funds for which we raise capital will come from the balance sheet as part of our contribution program or sale program to those funds because those will have to go there to complete the parks and create integrated ownership of parks.
On a steady-state basis we will not have these assets pile up on the balance sheet by and large because you will have a normal recycling of assets into the fund.
Our strategy overseas is to own everything within funds.
So by definition the balance sheet assets that are development will end up in funds on probably a more continuous regular basis.
Kim just to reiterate so by the end of Q4 we think most of those balance sheet assets as Hamid said will be contributed.
The funds have all the equity raised and it's a matter of just assets coming off the pipeline as they stabilize.
Yes and we continue to buy third party assets too and at a significant clip.
But I think the numbers for the balance of this year will be overwhelmingly balance sheet contributions and beyond this year I think it will be a more balanced mix.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on one of the prior questions Hamid.
You were quoting 7.5 cap rates in Europe dropping down to 6.5.
How does that correspond on a per pound basis is the 7.5 cap 80% of replacement costs or 120% of replacement costs typically? Well it's 80% of replacement costs.
I mean that's why you're not getting any construction certainly you're not getting any spec construction in Europe and few build-to-suits because you can go lease existing space for a big discount.
So I think rents have to move quite a bit before you'll see them exceed replacement costs and therefore be a catalyst for development.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
We should probably move on.
Probably Michael dropped off.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from line of Jim Sullivan with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up question on some of these leasing metrics and I don't want to make too much of these numbers.
But looking at them the retention ratio has declined here in the third quarter versus what it was over the prior several quarters although admittedly it is just a little bit higher than it was in Q1.
And at the same time of course spreads have been widening.
And I guess the general question is are you getting push back from customers as you try and push rents? Understood there's not a lot of spec construction or spec development available but to what extent given uncertainties given concerns about growth on the part of tenants are you just seeing a real reluctance to accept any sort of increases? Jim we get push back from tenants even when we try to drop rent.
But 80% retention is pretty good.
If anything I'd give the guys a little bit of grief over that.
I think that's almost too high.
If we are in the business of pushing rents I think that number should be more like low 70s.
So I'm not at all concerned by that number.
But Gene do you want to add any color? No.
It's kind of interesting.
And the same is true for -- we had some markets Jim that are some submarkets that are 99% leased.
Right.
And I think maybe you and I have actually talked about this that's a bit too high.
Frankly you're not pushing rents high enough if that's the case.
I mean getting to your fundamental question on resistance.
Of course our customers see these spaces as a cost set [ph] that's always been a focus with markets and that.
But I'll tell you it's also a part of their supply chain and they're trying to ring on efficiencies in the supply chain and save dollars overall.
So ultimately they need spaces there in good locations that affect their transportation costs and modern spaces that they can utilize with high levels of efficiency.
So with respect to modern space sure there's pushback.
But as you can see in the numbers we've been pretty successful in pushing rents.
For Class-B and Class-C space you have to ask other guys for that.
But so far so good.
I will now turn the conference back over to our presenters.
Can we have a couple more questions? Is Michael Bilerman on the queue still? Michael Bilerman with Citi your line is open.
Research Division</strong> So just 2 quick follow-ups.
One was just on the sales in the fourth quarter so the $1.9 billion to $3.4 billion it's a pretty wide range we're a month into the quarter.
So maybe you can sort of just breakdown you talked about European contributions Japan contributions U.S.
sales and Japan sales and then some other things that could materialize sort of what are the buckets? What is sort of in place? And what would happen? And the second question was just in terms of rent.
And I guess we've gone back and forth about what to look at.
What we do know is on Page 17 your rents that are expiring at about 515 a foot globally your share.
What is the current rent per foot that you're signing today and where do you think that could go next year so we can think about the marketplace of rents both in place and then some market growth to know where that spread goes? Michael our range is by the way a lot smaller than it was last year before we did the Norges transaction and the J-REIT as you guys kept asking us about on this call last year.
So we're improving huh? Tightening our range? Michael so color on so if you look at the midpoint for dispositions and contributions it’s about $2.2 billion.
And that would the mix of that would be contributions primarily in Europe and Brazil and Japan.
We already completed some in Japan already in October that's about $1.5 billion.
And then you have sales predominantly in the U.S.
and a little bit in Japan that is about $700 million that's $2.2 billion gets you right to the midpoint.
Like I said in my prepared remarks there's a couple of other things that could transpire we're working on.
But that's a matter I believe of timing in whether -- but at the midpoint things are I feel very very confident about our midpoint.
Your second question on rents.
Second question was asking for guidance for Europe which we're not providing at the moment.
But we did say in the last quarter's call the mark-to-market rents were basically 5 to 10 and I think that's probably pretty consistent today.
If anything it's a little wider I would say.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A quick one.
You guys quote stabilized yield or margins on development starts and a stabilization is now.
I remember several years ago you guys used to quoted add contribution when you actually sold the assets to the funds.
So my question is how do those projected margins and cap rates compare to when you actually sell in to the fund? Well first of all our strategy's changed dramatically from a few years ago.
I think a few years ago there was so much focus on contributions to the funds and quarterly earnings and that was in the FFO number and it created a lot of I think unnatural behavior.
I think our business strategy right now is that development is a source of creating value and whether we realize that value through contributions or third party sales or frankly keep the assets in our portfolio and enjoy a higher return over time.
Those are all equivalents.
So what we'd rather talk about is value creation as opposed to value realization.
But your question is a good one how does value realization compared with value creation? And I would say so far in the cycle it's exceeded it pretty substantially.
And that's why we are now showing you both what the realizations are and what the actual creations are.
But our own focus is on value creation not realization.
The act of actually selling it it's kind of like looking at a portfolio manager who has a bunch of stocks and saying "Well did you sell IBM at the end of the quarter?" That's the only way you get to account for your results.
No there's a market value for it and it's very important part of our business and frankly we're disappointed that we're not getting valuation for that over $300 million a year kind of engine that we showed the track record to everyone about a month ago.
So hopefully over the cycle that will become more of a real value in the eyes of most people.
Your last question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just one of the focuses of the investor day was working down the land banks there.
Just giving the budgeting process right now as we look ahead to '14 what's kind of -- what do you think that realistically can be monetized there? And as you're putting it in the budget how much land you think you're going to need to for '14 at this point to start adding to restart the pipeline? This is Mike and we've said on a couple of calls our IDSI is a land bank would support a run rate of $2 billion to $2.5 billion worth of development and lands 25% that would translate to roughly $1.5 billion $1.6 billion in total land size.
We're working our way towards that in the last year we put off almost a couple $100 million.
And not only have we gotten total size now but we also reconstituted the quality of the land bank and I think that will pay off significantly as we continue to monetize those sites.
So I think we're headed in the right direction and at the end of the day $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion remains our ideal target.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
You'd mentioned I think there's a $400 million number of non-core of land.
Is there any chance of expediting that or is that just kind of going to be work through the process at this point? We'll continue to work through that.
Our nonstrategic land this year we've already sold $100 million of that and we have an activity to continue to reduce that.
So over time that would be a smaller much smaller part of our land bank.
Since that was the last question I wanted to thank you for participating in our call this quarter and look forward to seeing you in the new year [indiscernible] and then in the new year on the next call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Melissa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Prologis Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to your host Ms.
Tracy Ward SVP Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Melissa and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our fourth quarter 2013 conference call.
The supplemental document is available on our website at prologis.com under Investor Relations.
This morning we'll hear from Hamid Moghadam Chairman and CEO who will comment on the company's strategy and the market environment; and then from Tom Olinger our CFO who will cover results and guidance.
Additionally we are joined today by members of our executive team including Gary Anderson Mike Curless Gene Reilly and Diana Scott.
Before we begin our prepared remarks I'd like to state that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements under Federal Securities Laws.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates and projections about the market and the industry in which Prologis operates as well as management's beliefs and assumptions.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and actual operating results may be affected by a variety of factors.
For a list of those factors please refer to the forward-looking statement notice in our 10-K or SEC filing.
Additionally our fourth quarter results press release and supplemental do contain financial measures such as FFO and EBITDA that are non-GAAP measures and in accordance with Reg G we have provided a reconciliation to those measures.
[Operator Instructions] Hamid will you please begin? Thanks Tracy and good morning everyone.
I'd like to keep my comments brief at a high level today.
We had a great quarter capping a very strong year.
We are seeing strong improving market conditions pretty much around the world.
The U.S.
markets in particular have been terrific with record absorption and very low levels of new construction.
And against this backdrop our business has been firing on pretty much all cylinders.
Operations were strong with good rent and occupancy growth across the globe.
Our development business ended the year with solid volumes and profit margins well ahead of long-term averages.
We had a record year in strategic capital with 2 major new ventures China and the U.S.
both closing around year end.
Looking forward we have a very straightforward business plan based on rising rents value creation through development and economies of scale from growth in AUM.
In fact if you were going to ask me about the prospects for our business compared to last September when we held our Analyst Day I would have to say that we are well ahead of those expectations.
Of course there are always risks that we can't control such as yield politics Capitol Hill the Fed undisciplined developers.
But overall we feel very good about our business going forward.
Our team has worked very hard for the last 3 years to simplify our company and to build a solid foundation for growth.
I believe we're at the beginning of a multiyear cycle when our hard work will pay off in terms of great results for our shareholders.
Let me now turn it over to Tom and let him fill in some of the specifics for you.
Thanks Hamid.
I'll start with our financial results.
Core FFO for the fourth quarter was $0.43 per share and for 2013 was $1.65 per share.
Our share of value creation from stabilizations was $125 million in the quarter and $372 million for the year were approximately $0.74 a share.
Investment management income in the fourth quarter was higher sequentially due to the increase in assets under management and the recognition of a $6 million promote.
Moving to operations it was a great quarter and our results continue to do demonstrate the high quality of our portfolio.
We closed the year with occupancy at 95.1% which was above the top end of our guidance range after leasing a record 44 million square feet during the quarter.
GAAP rent change on the rollover was 5.9% and positive across all geographic divisions.
Cash rent change on rollover was a negative 2.3%.
Same-store NOI increased 2.7% on a GAAP basis and 3% on an adjusted cash basis.
Turning to capital deployment.
In the fourth quarter we committed $1.1 billion with $842 million our share in new development starts building acquisitions and investments in funds and ventures.
We reduced our land bank during the year by $300 million to $1.6 billion through development starts of $450 million and land sales of $100 million offset by acquisitions and infrastructure spend.
For contributions and dispositions we completed $1.8 billion in the fourth quarter with $1.4 billion our share.
Subsequent to quarter end we announced the signing of USLV our U.S.
joint venture with Norges Bank and a contribution of $1 billion of properties to this vehicle.
With a large volume of disposition and contribution activity in the fourth quarter along with the closing of USLV in early January we generated approximately $900 million of excess cash available to fund 2014 growth.
With these contributions our asset repositioning plan is essentially complete.
As we look forward contributions will be primarily from the stabilization of assets off of our development pipeline while dispositions will be part of a selective culling process.
Turning to capital markets.
We completed $3.9 billion of activity in the fourth quarter.
These transactions were effectively leveraged neutral but reduced interest cost and extended term.
For the full year the bulk of our capital markets activity focused on the refinancing of our unsecured bonds effectively lowering the average interest rate by 105 basis points to 4.5% and extending the maturity to over 6 years.
We ended the year with leverage modestly higher than we expected largely due to the timing of the contribution to USLV in January.
Look through leverage adjusted for the USLV net proceeds is 35.8%.
Going forward we have a clear runway with no significant debt maturities until 2016.
We'll continue to look at opportunities to get after our medium term expirations if the economics make sense.
Even in the phase of rising interest rates we believe we can further extend our maturities and lower our borrowing costs in a meaningful way.
Now let's turn to guidance for 2014.
We expect year end occupancy to reach between 95% and 96.5%.
Consistent with our normal seasonal patterns we expect occupancy to decline in the first quarter then trend higher over the remainder of the year.
We expect further strengthening of releasing spreads in 2014 in line with our rank growth projections.
We're forecasting 2014 GAAP same-store NOI to increase between 3% and 4%.
We expect investment management income including promotes to range between $200 million and $210 million while investment management expenses will range between $95 million and $100 million.
For FX we're assuming the euro at $1.35 and the yen at JPY 105 for the entire year.
And U.S.
dollar net equity at the end of 2014 to range between 85% and 90%.
On the expense side we expect net G&amp;A to range between $230 million and $240 million.
This is an increase of 2.5% at the midpoint which is about half of the expected growth of AUM for 2014.
For capital deployment our 2014 forecast is between $2.3 billion and $3.2 billion.
This includes $1.8 billion to $2.2 billion of development starts with 80% our share and building acquisitions between $500 million and $1 billion with our share at 40%.
Turning to contributions and dispositions guidance.
We expect contributions to range between $2 billion and $2.25 billion which includes the January contribution to the USLV with our share at 50% and dispositions to range between $500 million and $750 million with 80% our share.
Putting this all together we expect full-year core FFO to be in the range of $1.74 to $1.82 per share.
Core FFO will not be evenly distributed between quarters as Q1 will be lower than the fourth quarter of 2013 given the timing of capital redeployment and seasonality of Q1 lease roll.
From a big picture perspective we're expecting 2014 core FFO growth of 8% at the midpoint of our range driven by rent growth and increased NOI from development stabilization.
Netted of the friction to redeploy the $900 million of cash we have to invest.
To sum up we had a great quarter and we have excellent momentum heading into 2014.
With that I'll turn it over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a little bit about how you guys are managing the occupancy relative to pushing rate.
I think in 2013 you pushed rate a little bit more and that caused occupancy to lag in the earlier quarters before picking up in Q4.
How do you think about the friction between rate and occupancy as you look out in 2014? And can you give us a sense of your pushing rents what that means in terms of order of magnitude? Is that 5% higher? Is it 10% is it 15%? Any color on that would be helpful as well.
Sure Brendan it's Gene let me start with that and I'll kick it over to Gary.
So we're really focused on pushing both of those metrics.
And obviously you see a lot -- you saw a lot of occupancy pick up in the fourth quarter.
That wasn't because we switched focus to occupancy from rent growth really I would tell you more primarily focus on rent growth.
And let me also give you some color into what's going on in the U.S.
before I kick it to Gary.
So in the U.S.
we had a third quarter rent change of 7.4% and that actually increased pretty materially to 8.3% in the fourth quarter.
So we're having a lot of success pushing rents.
We get very low vacancies in the markets and obviously low vacancies in the portfolio.
Looking into 2014 we'll have a rent change of about 10% overall for the global portfolio during the year.
And you're going to see that ramp up materially over the year particularly in the U.S.
where we've got a lot of pricing power.
So I'll give it to Gary for the ...
Yes Brendan I'll just say again we are hitting the sweet spot right now.
We're going to be averaging 95% to 96%.
That's a good place for us to be pushing rents globally.
If you look at Asia today we're sitting at almost 97% occupied and we are pushing rents there.
You've seen almost 6% rent change in those markets.
In Europe it's a little bit different story.
It's a mixed bag.
We're pushing rents where we can particularly in the U.K.
and northern Europe.
Some the markets in Central and Eastern Europe.
And in other markets we continue to solve for occupancy.
And that's really how it's going to be until we get to again sort of that 95% to 96% level.
But even in Europe we had positive rent change and positive rent change for the second consecutive quarter.
So all in all we're feeling pretty good about our prospects.
Your next question comes from the line of David Toti of Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I missed this.
Did you guys comment on the expense decline in the quarter? Was it a tax adjustment or some sort of weird comp? Yes David this is Tom Olinger.
I'm assuming you're referring to the drop in operating expenses in the quarter.
That was largely driven by a decline in CAM expenses.
So we saw a similar decline in revenues.
So the drop in CAM expenses moved -- the drop -- overall drop is 4.5%.
It moved 3.5% of that 4.5%.
And that also knocked down revenues by about 1%.
So it was really just an reclass of CAM expenses and revenues and had no impact on the bottom line growth.
We also did see about 1% of the decrease was related to better bad debt recovery.
So that was a positive that was driving the bottom line.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Question Tom just in terms of the balance sheet.
You were very successful last year and you talked about extending your debt duration lowering your cost.
And to do that though you went in the market and you bought back a lot of bonds.
And I think over the course of the year you had upwards of $300 million of debt prepayment make-wholes and charges so call it about $0.60 of cash out the door and you'll accrete that balance.
And I'm just curious as you think to '14 how aggressive do you want to be at continuing that strategy which is obviously having a near-term positive effect on core FFO but is cash out the door that you have to accrete over time.
And I'm just trying to think about how you're trying to make that tradeoff from an NPV perspective versus a current basis? Michael if you don't mind.
I'll take that again and remind you of my answer from last quarter.
We -- the way we price these things is that the spot time when we're making decision to redeem and reissue at a longer maturity we try to manage the present value of that entire activity within 1% of the debt amount.
So that's up where we start.
But the way it actually works is that you end up issuing immediately.
But you end up redeeming with a lag.
And by just dumb luck every time we did it last year interest rates went up in the interim so actually we ended up instead of incurring a 1% cost present value cost we actually ended up ahead on a present value basis.
So every transaction was present value positive.
Now with respect to its impact on FFO and accounting you're absolutely correct.
That happened to be the accounting limit.
But as you know we don't have a lot to say about what the accounting treatment is.
I can assure you that is not a criteria that we look at in making those kinds of decisions.
I guess Michael as we look to 2014 we'll continue to look at our inner maturities and where this math make sense and the economics prove out it's a need.
As we said we'll continue to go after those bonds because we do have a view that rates are going to go up and we want to get in front of that as best we can.
And we think that the long-term benefit to that of locking in those rates is the right thing to do.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Specter of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> This is Jamie Feldman here with Jeff.
So we're -- Hamid we noticed in your comments you were talking about some of the risks you can't control and one of them was undisciplined developers.
So can you talk a little bit about -- more about what you're seeing in terms of that risk? And then your thoughts on kind of how long we are -- how long the cycle continues before we really start to see that become an issue and pressure rents? Sure Jamie the reason I threw it in is that I knew somebody would bring it up in the Q&amp;A so I just wanted to get ahead of it.
So here's what I really think.
Developers have not forgotten how to build buildings and there are lots of them around.
I don't think banks have forgotten how to lend to developers although they're are a little bit more cautious at the beginning of this cycle.
But I'm sure in time with a couple of good quarters and years behind us the banks will become less disciplined.
So I don't think those are the real reasons why the development loans have been so low.
I think the reasons are pretty simple.
Their rents have not been there given what's happening to costs of land and costs of construction to develop profitably in many other markets in the U.S.
And certainly rents haven't been there to do any development in the smaller building category because that sector has been pretty low in occupancy and depressed.
And that accounts for a big chunk of the market normally.
Where you've seen development is places like L.A.
and Houston and a few other markets where rents have been at the levels that justified new development.
So I think -- this is actually good news.
I think we'll see muted levels of development.
We think development next year could be about around 100 million feet in the U.S.
110 million maybe.
And we think absorption is going to be north of $200 million.
The gap will be smaller than this year.
But a hundred -- I'm sorry all those dollars are square feet.
The gap will be smaller.
But still 100 million square feet of gap is unheard of other than last year or 2 we haven't seen that in our entire career.
So I think development is going to ramp up because more and more markets will reach replacement cost rents.
That's good news because if the rents actually get there while there'll be more competition on the development side I think we'll do a lot better in terms of capturing those rents.
So we fully expect development to ramp up over time.
But it'll still be a very good environment if you compare it to the last 30 years.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Rodgers of Robert W Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess maybe for Gene or for Hamid 4Q commencements obviously pretty strong for the portfolio overall but I'm a little bit more curious about the seasonality and the discussions that you're having today with tenants with housing data a little bit weaker in the fourth quarter retail sales weaker in the fourth quarter.
Now are you seeing any hesitation either on small or big box spaces related to kind of a weaker economic environment in the fourth quarter are they having any impact on the discussions for first quarter leasing and uptake? Sure David it's Gene and Mike might jump in a little bit too.
Well first of all the fourth quarter activity was really really strong in terms of the leasing.
And while -- when the government shutdown took place there was certainly some concerns a few months ago.
But we've actually seen inquiries in overall tenant dialogue increasing dramatically toward the end of the year.
And so far that's continued into this year.
So if you look at our starts volume in the fourth quarter I would not attribute that to anything other than it's a normal cycle and the projects we had teed up ready to go happened to start in the fourth quarter.
So we remain quite bullish as we look into next year.
Candidly I think we're going to probably do better than we think on the build-to-suit front because that has picked up.
Build-to-suit inquiries tailed off a little bit towards the middle in the fall last year but again that's all picked up as well.
And Mike I don't know if you have color as well? Yes I would suggest the pipeline in both the U.S.
and Europe are as strong as we've seen here in the last couple of years.
And I think the customers' ability is to actually make decisions seems on the increase and so we're bullish relative to just overall activity and our ability to convert that into real volume next year.
Let me make one more point on housing because you brought that up.
Clearly the housing data has been really spotty.
It looks good in 1 month then it tails off.
But if we look at where our demand is coming from it's pretty heavy in that area.
So construction materials furniture and other housing-related activities are clearly leading other segments of our customer base.
So maybe they're wishful about the future.
I think although if you look at the overall trends in housing you're going to see a bad report 1 month.
But overall it's trending in the right direction.
And at least our customers are voting with their feet in those segments.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can we spend a couple of seconds on your same-store guidance? Could you help us break it down in terms of what part is coming from same-store revenue and what portion is coming from expenses? Especially given that there's a couple of moving parts this look like your first quarter 2014 number will have a unusual expense comp as well if you could kind of tie that all together for us? Ki Bin it's Tom.
So if you look at the midpoint of our same-store GAAP NOI guidance of 3.5% about 1.5% of that is going to come through higher occupancy.
About 1.5% of that is going to come through rent growth rent change on rollover just high rents.
And then about 50 basis points is going to come through indexations where that don't get captured then in straight lines.
So if you got a 2% contractual bump every year now that gets straight line.
But if you are going off of the CPI index for example that gets picked up.
You don't straight line.
You can't straight line that component.
So those -- that piece of the rent bumps is about 50 basis points.
So that's how you get to the 3.5%.
Overall big picture.
I don't expect to see any significant moves at all in those numbers related to any one-time sort of items or unusual periods.
I think it's pretty clean number.
Your next question comes from the line of Vance Edelson of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So just following up on the competitive supply in the build-to-suit demand.
Back in the third quarter I think about 2/3 of the development starts were build-to-suits.
And that might have been unusually high.
But during the fourth quarter that dropped to less than 30%.
So I'm wondering would you chalk that up to natural volatility? Or does such a large swing suggest any increased confidence on your part that the build it and they will come approach is going to be successful given the demand you're expecting? Or is it that you have an interest in getting ahead of the competitive supply that's inevitably going to come? This is Mike.
I would suggest the last quarter that's such a small sample supply and mix issue relative to the ratios.
As we look forward to this year we'd anticipate build-to-suits would be in the 25% range which is lower than we've seen in the past where our build-to-suits have been in the 40% to 55% range and that actually gives us some encouragement.
Given our global platform our customer reach that there's some built-in bias to the upside relative to our volume associated with build-to-suits.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Research Division</strong> You did a nice job in the fourth quarter of working down the land bank a little bit down to just under $1.6 billion.
Can you talk a little bit about what your goal is for year end '14 for where the land bank's going to go given your development start guidance? And then talk to us a little bit about what you think the current market value of that land is today Hamid given some of your earlier comments on cost.
This is Mike.
Why don't I address the land bank.
We did put up significant debt in the bank -- land bank this year about $300 million.
Which gets us right in the zone as we've talked about for a couple of years in terms of the ideal size.
Our work this year is to continue to improve the quality of that land bank and we're down to the last remaining 15% or so parcels that we'll continue to sell out of the system and end up with the primary parcels to put in production.
And we have sold 170 million last year we'll do that kind of number again this year.
And we will very selectively replenish our land bank with the high-quality sites for those sites we can put in production.
And Hamid do you want to address there.
Sure.
I mean if you just look at our development margins I think we've talked about this in previous quarters.
If you sort of pick a number of 10% for build-to-suit and maybe 14% 15% for a typical spec deal given our mix we should be in the 12% 13% range and we're substantially higher than that like 10 points higher than that depending on the quarter.
So 10 points of extra margin is coming not because we're great developers but because we've got cheap land.
So 10% on land which is usually 25% of the overall mix you could argue could be 30% 40% undervaluation of land.
Now nobody around here is courageous enough to step up and say our land is 30% or 40% undervalued.
And certainly not all of our land is valued that attractively.
But I definitely do think we're around 20% undervalued in terms of book value and there's a big arrow north on that.
And while we're on land let me tell you.
Based on what we're seeing in most markets most of this land that's in our books is probably dates back to 2005 or something like that and went through the cycle and got impaired.
So the next series of lands that are going to come up are going to be almost 10 years beyond when this land in the inventory was acquired.
The world's really changed in terms of entitlement costs in terms of what concrete costs and what exactions are and all that.
So I think the next series of land that is put -- new land that comes into production is going to have a much much higher cost than the old land.
And that's why I'm so confident about replacement cost continuing to go up and rents alongside with it and why I'm so optimistic that this development engine that everybody's scared about is not going to very quickly exceed demand.
It will eventually.
But I think we've got a couple of 3 years before that happens.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Frankel of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My question is related to the last one that was just asked.
But can you talk about the replacement cost and rent concept and given that your -- you've increased your spec at all to start this year.
Just where you're underwriting you're current development relative to where rents are being achieved today? I think we generally perform around the globe on spec deals.
Margins today in the mid-teens and we're not projecting a whole lot of rent growth certainly not beyond inflation.
And we're ending up with results that are better than that.
I mean that's been really the summary of the experience over the last 12 to 24 months.
But I mean in a normalized market Eric I think spec deals should be certainly in the U.S.
should have margins and we'll call it 14% 15% range.
We're definitely getting higher than that in some of the less developed markets like Brazil.
So but it should be in that range.
Our placement costs are moving up I mean that's clear in basically all of our market maybe with the exception of some of the European markets but replacement costs are definitely heading north as are rents.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is I think for you Tom.
Kind of a three-part question.
First I think you said in your guidance assumption that net U.S.
equity would be 85% to 90%.
And if I get -- if I'm getting the definition right it was 77% per page 30 of your sub.
So if I'm correct in saying that how does it grow from 77% to 85% to 90%? Second is your GAAP rents appear to be going up around 6% over the last couple of quarters but your cash is down a little bit maybe 2% or 3%.
Which seems like a pretty widespread for an average lease term of 3.5 to 5 years.
So kind of how does that math work? And then third is does the $6 million promote in your core FFO? Okay.
John I will take that.
And we'll let you have a three-part question since we butchered your last name.
So on the first on how do we get to 85% to 90% U.S.
net equity from 77% today? It's largely going to be from repatriating money.
We're -- when we look at funding needs we're going to continue to push for euro and yen denominated debt and bring down our U.S.
dollar denominated debt and move those funds around.
And we'll continue to look at hedging opportunities where we see them to be attractive and take advantage of those.
So those would be the biggest tools that we can use and obviously as you know we've done a lot with moving assets overseas assets and investment of funds which certainly helps that as well.
On your -- I'm going to take your third question here is this promote income in core FFO? It is.
For sure.
And your second one...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And it was in 2013 too? Yes it was.
It's been throughout 2013.
And then your other question your last question was cash versus GAAP and why that spread? We provide the cash rent change.
And as you know we don't track it.
We don't use it to manage our business that way because it can obviously lead to unusual fluctuations just based on how the lease is structured whether you have a free rent on the front end or the back end or you -- or how the ramp escalates over time what really matters from our perspective is what the overall economics of that cash flow stream is over the life of that contractual lease.
What it is in month 1 versus what it is in month 60 really doesn't matter.
At the end of the day it's what the economics are over the whole contractual term.
So yes you can get some fluctuations between cash and GAAP between quarters just due to mix and how certain things are structured versus what's rolling off.
But I would tell you looking to '14 I would expect that number to move into positive territory just with where -- with our trajectory of GAAP rent change I would expect this cash number although we don't forecast it I would expect it to be positive in '14.
Yes.
And I think that GAAP is going to get closer and closer and I think in about 1 year or 2 it could flip.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I guess I just wanted to circle back on the development front Hamid.
I know that you guys have really not been driven by a specific development target.
But given all the comments that you had this morning about how good the business is how much rent growth is going up I guess I'm a bit surprised that the development volume's only up around $100 million.
And I guess given some of the comments that Gene made about build-to-suits going up I guess the question is what's that risk that 1 or 2 quarters from now the development [indiscernible] meaningfully? So Steve the way we forecast development volume is that we look at the visibility that we have on deals that are pretty much in the bag.
And I would say last year at this time when we're sitting around and giving you guidance we had about 60% visibility as to the number for the year.
And that number has moved to sort of like 80% visibility on what we have.
So we're pretty good with the number particularly at the lower end of the range.
Not that many good things have to happen during the year for us to be able to exceed that.
And some good things always happen some bad things happen.
But we're really solid on our development guidance type of numbers.
I guarantee you this if there are good development opportunities in markets that we see that we think we can capture we're going to take advantage of those.
But we're not going to drive to some artificial number to keep the perception of what makes investors happy.
We -- we're going to underwrite that as we see it game time decision.
And again go back to my comment not all markets in fact most markets are still not at the level where with today's rents you can generate acceptable margins.
I think that situation will change very quickly.
So maybe our numbers for the back half of the year are too conservative.
Time will tell.
But we'll rather start off the beginning of the year at a conservative level and see how it plays out.
So I -- if I were going to say -- if I were a betting person I would say it would be at the higher end of that range or maybe even higher.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Hamid just going back to your opening comment there in terms of and also factoring kind of the supply.
We need to talk about the -- being well ahead in the sector relative to your expectations does that imply that you -- when you look at the cycle this time you now expect stronger growth relative to where you had presented at your Investor Day? Or you expect the cycle to be a bit more compressed with development ramping up in the back half? I think Michael that we came out with a pretty aggressive rental forecast based on the feedback we got from the investors.
We actually thought we came with a very realistic rental forecast.
And by the way we got the same comments back in 2012 Analyst Day.
I think on both of those the market has played out ahead of what we told you guys.
And I think at the time we talked about what our expectations were people thought we were a little crazy and overly aggressive.
I'm just telling you it's playing out faster.
I think ultimately where these rents go before they get to equilibrium is purely driven by replacement cost in some of these markets.
And I would tell you replacement cost is also accelerating faster than we thought.
So on both those scores I think it definitely will happen quicker whether ultimately we get more rental growth or not I'm not ready to forecast that yet.
That's still out 3 or 4 years.
But so far the signs are pretty good.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Going to the promotes for a second.
Tom I was just wondering if you could about what's in the 2014 numbers? Okay.
For '14 we have a similar level of promote core FFO promote so about $0.04 in 2014.
And it relates to our USLF venture.
If I can follow up on that and I think this would be a useful guide for you because it's very hard to -- for you to get inside our promotes fund by fund and all that kind of stuff.
The way I think about it is that we have about $16 billion $17 billion of third-party capital under management.
And most of our -- I mean we ought to able to do at least 100 basis points over our threshold in terms of preferred return.
So if -- and our normal promote participations are 15% to 20%.
So the easy way to think about it is that if we outperform by 100 basis points and we get somewhere between 15% or 20% of that for the company once you net it against the comp effect of that call it 10% of the excess growth.
So call it 10 basis points call it 10 basis points of $16 billion $17 billion under management.
So we'll be in that 3% or 4% range.
It will probably be a little higher in the near term than that.
Because A we're outperforming our benchmarks by more than 100 basis points and B we're recovering from a pretty deep hole in valuations that are driving returns.
But I think over the very long term it should be on the order of 10 to call it 15 basis points of third party AUM net to the bottom line across the cycle.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Sullivan of Cowen Group.
LLC Research Division</strong> Hamid given your comments about development and I guess Tom's comments about the direction of interest rates.
I just wonder if you're changing your hurdle rates for development in any of the markets in which you are active? Jim we do constantly.
We actually change not so much the hurdles but the cost of capital in every market that we operate on a quarterly basis based on what's happening in the capital markets and in each of those economies et cetera.
But necessarily that the margins that we'd like to get over and above the normal cost of capital in terms of investing in operating real estate those are fairly stable.
I mean so think of it if you're thinking about it in terms of bond spreads we definitely have views -- changing views on what the base rate will be.
But in terms of what the spread is that we want to achieve over that that's fairly constant.
And it's in the range of low teens for build-to-suits.
I mean if it's a great credit 20-year deal with fabulous credit we might go down to a high single digit margin.
But generally in the low double-digit for build-to-suits and mid-teens for spec deals pretty much across the board.
Places like Brazil we might tack on a little bit more in Brazil and China to the margin requirement on spec.
But that's generally the guideline.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Tom I was just wondering if you can perhaps just spend a moment just on sources in uses.
It looks at least that your share if you were to take the sales and contributions you're raising just under $1.6 billion.
And then from a use perspective you have obviously the acquisitions of $300 million [ph] and then development on a start basis $1.6 billion.
Though I recognize your spend would be very different.
And then you're also contributing land.
Though it sounds like from Hamid's response to a prior question you made the land bank at $1.6 billion even if you put in and call it $300 million to $400 million [ph] of land and for the current developments you're probably reigniting that.
I know you have about almost $500 million of cash and you're going to have some free cash flow next year excess of $100 million.
So I'm just trying to figure out how in your mind you're thinking about sources and uses of capital.
For next year or this year.
So Michael Tom will give you a detailed answer.
But the real answer is that we have a bunch of non-strategic assets left that we can sell at any time in a very good market.
And that's something that we value.
If we need capital we've got a pretty attractive place where we can go to get that.
And that's what our plan will be.
But if you'd like Tom can take you through the details.
Yes Michael if you -- your numbers are really right on.
If you look at our deployment guidance what we gave in use at the midpoint.
You would see net deployment growth of call it $250 million to $300 million not talking about the land bank.
But as Hamid said we have a lot of ways to fund it.
Primarily we're going to be running our line at virtually 0 most of 2014.
So we at any one point in time will be able to tap that $2.5 billion plus of capacity.
So we're not concerned about how we fund growth.
Yes let me say one other thing about capital needs.
I mean $300 million for acquisitions.
As you know and I've stated many years in a row.
Our acquisition guidance were -- is meaningless I think.
Because who knows? I mean we only -- we might invest 0 if there are no good deals.
We might invest $10 billion if there are really good deals.
In fact the year I said it's 0 to $5 billion we ended up doing the merger with Prologis.
So it could be any wide range of numbers.
So we don't really -- we can't really look at our capital planning in such a debit credit kind of way.
We got to look at it more strategically and in a broader view.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Mailman of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Question -- 2 quick questions.
One on occupancy you guys are obviously expecting to trend 95% to 96%.
Just as we look into 2015 sort of what are the thoughts about where stabilized occupancy could go for the current portfolio that you guys have? And then the other quick question is just are there any markets where you guys are still have in place rents that are above market? And that could drag as we head into next year? Yes it's Gene.
Let me start with that.
First of all at this point we don't have any markets in the Americas at least that have above market rents I mean Gary can follow up on this.
In terms of stabilized occupancy that number is 95%.
Can we run in L.A.
within a 2% embedded local vacancy rate should we run higher than that? Yes.
And we will.
But overall 95% is the number you ought to be working with.
Yes.
No I totally agree 95% to 96% is how we think about the markets and that's again where we can push rents.
In Japan and in China no markets that are over rented today I would say.
Certainly markets that were active in and trying to grow in.
And in Europe I'd say 3.
France Hungary and Italy those are the 3 markets that may be over rented today.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
If you look at CDF spreads in Europe it seems like even the past couple of quarters we're now back down to 2007 levels.
Could you comment on any kind of trends you're seeing in cap rates and if those have adjusted in the past 0.5 years or so downwards? Yes if you go back to our Investor Day we predicted over the 3-year period we'd see call it 75 to 80 basis points of cap rate compression.
And we said at that time we thought that it might actually move more quickly.
We had sort of spread that out over the 3-year period.
My view is very clear.
It is moving much more quickly than we had anticipated.
I'd say easily 25 basis points today.
And moving in a positive direction relative to values.
I have seen more portfolio transactions over the course of the last 12 months than I have in my career in Europe and there is capital chasing those transactions so I expect the trend to continue through the balance of this year for sure.
Yes I think there'll be a big lag in terms of how the appraisers work through that number and all that.
But if you ignore that stuff cap rates are really falling in Europe and on a real-time basis much faster than will show up in the appraisals at least for the next 12 to 24 months.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Frankel of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick follow-ups.
Sorry if I missed this before but Tom did you disclose your same-store guidance on a cash basis? No.
We did not.
But I'll tell you.
So cash same-store for next year should be a little above 4%.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Specter of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> This is Jamie Feldman with Jeff again.
Tying in for the last cap rate question in Europe can you talk also about the appetite for assets that you're seeing both in the U.S.
and Asia and what you're seeing in terms of cap rates maybe changes in underwriting assumptions and what's happening how people are thinking about the rising interest rates any impact on valuations? We have seen no impact -- well we've seen actually a little bit of a positive impact on valuations in the U.S.
I would say cap rates on core assets are down probably since in the last quarter by maybe 10-ish basis points.
And on secondary market assets maybe a little bit more than that maybe 25 basis points.
As I've said before I really think other than short-term blips and like in May I think until interest rates 10-year bond gets to the mid 4s I think we're good on cap rates in the U.S.
I don't expect further compression but I certainly don't expect expansion.
And that's 150 basis points above where we are today and maybe a little bit more in terms of room on the treasury on the 10-year treasury before we have to worry about CapEx.
In Europe you heard the discussions.
I won't go over that.
I think maybe there's been a little bit of cap rate expansion maybe on the order of 10 basis points probably in a place like Brazil or maybe even Mexico given the EM situation.
In Japan oh my god.
I mean you look at the disconnect between public markets and private markets.
I mean cap rates are in the public markets are I don't know 120 to 150 basis points below where they are in private markets.
So I think that will continue to drive cap rates in Japan down.
And in China there isn't enough visibility in terms of transaction volume to be able to report on that with certainty.
But I think it's down a tiny smidgen if I were going to pick a number.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question for Tom.
Just beyond the Norges U.S.
joint venture formation there.
Do you expect any additional funds for JV formation in 2014 as part of your 2% to 2.5% contribution of forecast? No Michael we do not.
There would be 2 existing vehicles and as you've seen from the capital raising we've done over the year a record capital raising.
And with the very low leverage to no leverage in these vehicles we are -- they are -- have a lot of capital and are hungry to grow.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Mike Carlos has just given all the questions about cap rates and portfolios and all that.
What's the status on the IIT portfolio? John they actually pronounced your name correctly but I will not be able to respond to that as you know we can't talk about any.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> What's the IIT portfolio? Yes potentially new acquisitions.
Sorry.
Your last question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> For Tom.
Tom the capital outlook for the year you talked a lot about that kind of leveraged neutral throughout the year.
If I think about the timing of that I guess with the USLV venture I would think that there is more capital coming in the door early in the year and then you put more of that out throughout the year.
So if I look at the overall 8% FFO growth year-over-year compared to the kind of the 10% FFO growth that you guys had provided at your Investor Day should we kind of think that there's an increasing ramp in the rate of growth sort of in the back half of the year relative to the first half of the year? Absolutely Brendan.
If you look at the components of the growth.
If you use Q4 '13 as a -- compared to the midpoint of our guidance.
If Q4 annualizes about $1.70 so if you want to grow that $1.70 to the midpoint of our $1.78 you've got about $0.09 from same-store growth you've got $0.08 from development NOI growth.
And then you have about $0.08 of drag or friction from redeploying that cash.
As I said in my prepared remarks we have about $900 million of cash.
We ended the year with about $450 million and we generated another about $450 million with the USLV transaction.
So as I said earnings in Q1 will be down for the Q4 run rate and then we're going to ramp back up.
And then particularly to your point in the second half we'll -- we should see core FFO ramp significantly.
Yes Brendan the only thing I would add to that I think just to tie it to our investor conference and our forecast for that.
Even though we -- we're talking about sort of a 4-year timeframe within the 4 years it certainly is more backend oriented because it doesn't have the dilution upfront.
And the interesting thing is given the recovery in rents and I'm not talking about projected further recovery in rents.
But just the recovery that we had to date in rents.
Just like on the way down it takes a while for the numbers to get marked down on the way up it takes a while for the numbers to get marked up.
So I think whatever momentum is going to come through in this rental growth is going to benefit us for many many years.
So we -- if we're going to forecast that again today we would just still say that the 4-year ramp is more backend oriented too not just within the year but also within the 4 years.
Anyway that was the last question.
Thank you for participating in our call.
I know today's a busy day.
So we'll let you go.
Thank you and see you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Shirley and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Prologis First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
Ms.
Tracy Ward Senior Vice President of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thanks Shirley and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our first quarter 2014 conference call.
The supplemental document is available on our website at prologis.com under Investor Relations.
This morning we'll hear from Hamid Moghadam our Chairman and CEO who will comment on the company's strategy and the market environment; and then from Tom Olinger our CFO who will cover results and guidance.
Also joining us for today's call are Gary Anderson Mike Curless Ed Nekritz Gene Reilly and Diana Scott.
Before we begin our prepared remarks I'd like to state that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements under federal securities laws.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates and projections about the market and in the industry in which Prologis operates as well as management's beliefs and assumptions.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and actual operating results may be affected by a variety of factors.
For a list of those factors please refer to the forward-looking statement notice in our 10-K or SEC filing.
Additionally our first quarter results press release and supplemental do contain financial measures such as FFO and EBITDA that are non-GAAP measures and in accordance with Reg G we have provided a reconciliation to those measures.
With that I will turn the call over to Hamid and we'll get started.
Hamid? Thanks Tracy and good morning everyone.
We had a strong first quarter and 2014 is shaping up to be a good year for us.
We see excellent momentum across all our business lines and geographies.
Markets continue to improve pretty much everywhere around the world.
Rents and occupancies are recovering at a pace ahead of the forecast we gave you at our investor forum last fall.
In the U.S.
absorption is running more than double the pace of new completions pushing occupancies above pre-crisis levels.
We expect this trend to continue throughout 2014 albeit at a more modest pace.
We see no general signs of overbuilding although speculative starts in Dallas are getting ahead of demand.
There is also a fair amount of new construction in the Inland Empire and Houston but we are not concerned about those markets as absorption is more than keeping pace with new supply.
Turning to capital flows we see significant investor demand for quality industrial real estate.
Appraisals lag real time transactions and our view of the market by 25 to 50 basis points.
At the same time the market chatter about portfolio pricing is a further 25 to 50 basis points inside where we think the real market is today.
Moving to Europe the leasing markets are also improving but at an uneven pace.
UK and Northern Europe are strong and Southern Europe is slowly getting better.
While strengthening Italy and Romania are the two softest markets in Europe.
Across the Continent cap rates are compressing rapidly and appraisals are 50 to 100 basis points behind real time transactions.
In Brazil Mexico and China the markets are much stronger than the economic headlines would suggest consumer interest -- the customer interest in our product remains solid.
In Japan markets continue to tighten and rents are increasing faster than our previous expectations.
Japan is a market with the biggest upward pressure on construction cost.
Switching to our three lines of business ops led the way in the first quarter.
Overall occupancies held up better than our expectations and rental growth was above plan.
In our development business margins on starts and stabilizations were well above average.
Our pipeline for the rest of the year continues to look strong in terms of volume and projected profit margins.
We had a good quarter of acquisitions in Europe ahead of compressing cap rates.
As we look forward given the strength of pricing in the U.S.
we're putting more of our non-strategic assets on the market for sale in 2014.
With respect to acquisitions here in the U.S.
we are only spending time on transactions where we can have a competitive advantage in terms of our scale and our expertise or see value at discounts to replacement costs.
In investment management business we experienced another quarter of strong fund raising across all our vehicles.
Our ongoing dialogue with perspective investors is as strong as I remember in our entire history.
We are turning away more business than we choose to take on.
We are now rated BBB Plus by S&amp;P in the top quintile of REITs.
This represents the second full upgrade over the last 12 months and is a long way away from where we started at the close of the merger.
We still plan to have one of the top balance sheets in the business and to attain an A rating in the near future.
To sum it all up we're feeling pretty good about our business where it is today and where it's going.
We expect strong rental growth through the balance of the year and beyond development and investment management businesses are two powerful engines for profitable growth going forward.
And finally we are at the point in our evolution where we can grow significantly in scale with very little incremental investment in corporate overhead.
With that let me turn it over to Tom who will take you through the numbers.
Thanks Hamid.
I'll start with our results for the first quarter.
Core FFO was $0.43 per share about $0.01 ahead of our expectations.
The outperformance was driven by higher NOI.
Additionally interest income was higher than expected due to the recovery of a notes receivable that was fully reserved.
Leasing volume totaled 32 million square feet consistent with the first quarter of 2013.
Our quarter-end occupancy was 94.5% down 60 basis points from year-end and in-line with our historical first quarter seasonality.
Americas and Asia occupancy outperformed expectations with the drop from year end at 30 and 40 basis points respectively.
Europe occupancy was modestly lower than forecast dropping a 130 basis points.
GAAP rent change on rollover was 7% and positive across all geographic divisions led by the Americas at 10.4%.
Notably Europe's rent change on rollover was 3%.
Cash rent change on rollover was positive 1.1% for the quarter.
Same-store NOI for the quarter increased 3% on a GAAP basis and 4.1% on an adjusted cash basis.
G&amp;A was $63 million in the first quarter which is typically our highest quarter due to the seasonal nature of incentive compensation.
Turning to capital deployment in the first quarter development stabilizations were $264 million with an estimated margin of 22% generating our share of value creation of $51 million or about $0.10 a share.
Building acquisitions were $371 million with the weighted average stabilized cap rate of 7% and were primarily in Europe.
We also started a $172 million of new development projects at an estimated margin of 22%.
For dispositions and contributions in the quarter we completed $1.2 billion generating $568 million our share at a weighted average stabilized cap rate of 6.2% with most of this activity related to the U.S.
logistics venture contributions.
Moving to investment management; operating income was $21 million in the quarter in-line with our expectations.
Following a record year in 2013 institutional investor demand remained strong.
Year-to-date we've raised $582 million of third-party equity primarily for our European ventures.
Our capital raising and deployment drove investment management AUM higher to more than $27 billion at the end of the quarter.
Switching gears to capital markets we completed $1.2 billion of financings in the first quarter.
We continue to capitalize on low interest rates particularly with euro-denominated debt to extend term lower interest cost and align the currency of our debt and assets.
Our LTV and debt-to-EBITDA credit metrics increased slightly this quarter due to deployment timings.
However we expect our credit metrics will continue to improve with NOI growth from high occupancy and rising rents.
We repatriated the majority of the $700 million euro bonds proceeds back to U.S.
dollars which increased our U.S dollar held equity to 82% from 77% at year-end.
Subsequent to quarter-end we redeemed a $175 million of bonds maturing in 2015 and repaid $239 million of secured debt.
Additionally Prologis European Properties Fund 2 issued a $300 million Euro bond.
The recent credit rating upgrade from Standard &amp; Poor's to BBB plus is affirmation of our earnings trajectory liquidity access to multiple sources of public and private capital and our commitment to build one of the strongest balance sheets in the REIT sector.
For 2014 we continue to expect year-end occupancy to reach between 95% and 96% and GAAP same-store NOI to range between 3% and 4%.
On expenses; net G&amp;A is forecasted to range between $233 million and $243 million.
For capital deployment we continue to expect $1.8 billion to $2.2 billion of development starts with 80% our share and building acquisitions between $500 million and $1 billion with our share at 40%.
For contributions our forecast is unchanged at $2 billion to $2.25 billion with 50% our share.
For dispositions; given the increase in divestiture demand as Hamid mentioned we're raising our guidance by $250 million to range between $750 million and $1.25 billion with 80% our share.
The increased dispositions will be primarily in the U.S.
We can self-fund our growth this year as proceeds from contributions and dispositions approximately equal our forecasted deployment.
Our investment management guidance remains unchanged with revenue ranging between $200 million and $210 million and expenses between $95 million and $100 million representing an operating margin of about 50%.
This guidance includes the promote we expect to recognize in the second quarter net of expenses of approximately $20 million from our open-ended target U.S.
Logistic Fund.
We have added promote eligibility date disclosure in the supplemental and you should note that we have an opportunity to earn a promote in each year of the foreseeable future.
For FX we are continuing to assume the euro with 1.35 and the Yen at 105 for the year and our U.S.
dollar net equity to range between 85% and 90% at year-end.
Putting this all together given the strong start to the year we are raising the low end of our prior guidance and now expect full year core FFO to range between a $1.76 and a $1.82 per share.
At the midpoint of our guidance range 2014 core FFO is expected to grow more than 8% year-over-year We expect second quarter core FFO to be higher than the first quarter principally as a result of the USLF promote.
As we are moving to the second half of the year we expect rent growth and increased NOI from development stabilizations to steadily increase core FFO.
To sum it up we had a good quarter and we are excited about our prospects for the remainder of the year.
With that I’ll turn it to the operator to open it up for questions.
Shirley? I apologize ma’am I was on mute.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana from Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
LLC</strong> Thanks good morning.
Tom I wanted to ask about guidance and you went through the details.
It seemed like the main change from the parameters that you give us was the increased dispositions to take advantage of strong pricing that was out there.
But you did raise the low end by a couple of pennies.
So I am just wondering what the offset is given that it seems like the deployment expectations are about the same.
Is it better on the operation side is it better on the financing side or is there something else that’s driving the move up when dispositions would be -- could be a little bit of a headwind?  Brendan this is Tom thanks for your question.
It is driven by better NOI in the first quarter and our confidence with the operating fundamentals going forward.
It's also the result of deploying our excess -- significant liquidity we had at the end of the year and in early January a little faster than we thought.
And we also have a little more visibility now on the size of the promote from USLF in the second quarter.
Looking forward we’ll be as efficient as we can on redeploying any excess disposition proceeds and as we mentioned we took our guidance up there.
We’ll continue to look on how to do that efficiently on deployment including redeeming bonds where we think the economics make sense.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Specter from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
This is Jamie Feldman here.
Can you talk a little bit more about the occupancy dip in the first quarter? I think you had said it was pretty sizable in Europe and then taking it forward kind of what gives you conviction that you’ll get to your occupancy guidance by the end of the year? Let me take that second part of that first.
Jamie it’s kind of happened every year in the last I don’t know 25 years.
So it's a good expectation.
Our expectation is that it always dips in the first quarter and it always comes back and we have pretty good visibility in the leases we are working on for the second quarter and beyond.
So that one is pretty much a given.
I will let Gary talk about Europe.
Yeah so Jamie in Europe we are still bullish there.
The macroeconomic recovery is accelerating it's broadening.
The recovery -- actually over the course of the past 90 days GDP forecast has increased by 30 basis points.
We are sitting at about 1.5% GDP growth for the entire year.
So the recovery as Hamid said is uneven and our operating results are sort of reflective of that.
Things played out pretty much as we expected in Northern Europe and the UK occupancies dropped while we started to push rents makes perfect sense; we’re right in the sweet spot in those two geographies sitting at 96% 97% occupancy and the ability to push rents.
We had hoped that we would be able to hold occupancies in Southern Europe and Central and Eastern Europe and we didn’t.
There is not a concern there.
There is no systemic issue at all and I expect occupancies to increase certainly about the third quarter of this year.
So net-net we feel good about the operating results there and again this is the third consecutive quarter that we had positive rental growth in Europe so 3% so all-in-all a pretty good result I think in Europe.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman from Citi.
Your line is open.
Yeah good morning up there Kevin Varin's on the phone with me as well.
Tom or Hamid I just wanted to talk sort of about free cash flow equity sort of dividend raise and when you look at the results in the first quarter your core AFFO was effectively on top of the dividend which you lifted 18% to $0.33.
When you think about the back half of the year if you put aside the $0.04 promote that you in the second quarter your core FFO was about $0.43 to $0.45.
Let's assume the $0.10 drop from FFO to AFFO is similar you got pretty tight coverage and so I guess from your perspective why raise the dividend and give away that free-cash flow ability and then also put an ATM in place of $750 million potentially putting pressure even though the decisions are good and you can match fund this year putting pressure on the need to raise equity where you got free cash if you were to maintain the dividend where it was? Wow that was a pretty long winded question.
I think you are assuming two businesses away which are pretty important as part of our overall lines of business.
I mean you just put investment management away by assuming away promotes.
That's a pretty important part of our business.
And you also put away the development business that makes us $300 million to $400 million a year really really.
So yes if you just consider our operating business the dividend and our earnings power from just the rent business assuming no growth in rents and occupancies which is again a draconian assumption is right on top of the dividend but of course our view is that there will be growth in our rents and our occupancies and that the development in investment management business will be strong contributors to our overall financial picture.
Tom do you have anything to add? I will just add on the development side you have to remember that realized development gains or taxable income and that has to be distributed to shareholders so you need to look at as Hamid said the totality of that business not just with the operating business.
And when you look at on that basis our AFFO payout ratio would be in the mid to low 80% range.
Our next question comes from the line of Vance Edelson from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thank you for taking the questions.
So you touched on construction cost in Japan and you also discussed where you are seeing some construction activity domestically.
Could you update us on the replacement cost in relation to rents in the U.S.
the relative growth in both and how your own construction costs are trending domestically? Yeah sure Vance it's Gene I'll hit that one.
So as we look at actual construction cost in the United States we saw sort of a 3% to 4% increase year-over-year.
And we expect that to increase not significantly at this point but probably that goes to sort of a four to five range.
And that's one component of replacement cost obviously.
Land it's moving I mean that's really all across the board but in a healthy market it is moving really quickly.
So you are seeing sort of 10% 15% increase.
When you boil all that together and you are probably looking on a go-forward basis something in the 7% plus range all-in.
So we've got a keen eye on replacement cost and as you know we do a lot of development so it is something on one hand we are worried about but on the other hand it sort of underpins where rent levels are and also underpins the growth in those rents.
Our rental forecast on our Investor Day was predicated on a 10% real growth in construction cost above and beyond inflation in the period between 2013 and 2016 that's kind of was the basis for that analysis which we shared with you in September of '13.
I would say and that was a global forecast.
I would say if you look at where we are and we were going to do that analysis over again I would say construction cost would be higher than those projections primarily because Japan is much much higher and I would say the U.S.
is higher and the growth is coming a little earlier than we thought in that analysis.
So I think there is -- that's why we think that forecast that we put out there is actually looking pretty conservative right now and we're ahead of it both in terms of occupancy we're ahead of it in terms of rent.
The only headwind to that forecast is that I would say cap rates have come in a little bit lower.
So development can occur a little sooner with the same level of profitability than before.
So compared to September I would say global cap rates are down maybe 25 basis points.
Where we really think they are now where the price stock is the price stock is all kinds of -- if you really believed the price stock cap rates are down 50 maybe even more than that.
I don't believe the price stock.
But really really cap rates are down 25 basis points so that's a bit more of a headwind that will negate the construction cost increase.
So roughly I think replacement cost rents are about where they were when we forecasted them in September.
Our next question comes from the line of John Guinee from Stifel.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus </strong> Great.
Thank you.
Hey Tom can you -- I think it was Mr.
Bilerman asked about dividend increase et cetera.
Can you expand a little bit more for educational purposes on the -- basically in developing merchant building investment sales business in the U.S.
versus Europe.
Because in the U.S.
for the most part your normal real estate annual corporate taxes are sheltered via the REIT rules and you can usually -- if you want to do a 10-31 exchange and do other assets how much leakage do you have in Europe because the U.S.
REIT don't apply and you may or may not be able to use 10-31 exchanges.
And how does that all translate into a percentage of your dividend that is almost guaranteed to go up as your merchant building business expands? Thanks for the question John.
So when you look at outside the U.S.
the friction you get well number one is those gains do come back and it is taxable income.
You cannot shelter those gains through a 10-31 mechanism like you can in the U.S.
So those earnings when they are repatriated come back and that's taxable income.
The leakage on that is actually very minimal.
We're very efficiently structured both out of Europe and Asia and that leakage is generally in the low to mid-single digits from a leakage perspective.
But here is the important point John they only are taxed when they come back here.
So in terms of present value they are very low in terms of their net economic impact because they often times unless you're doing a lot of balance sheet gymnastics in terms of expanding or shrinking your balance sheet in these regions which by the way we've being doing a lot of but now we're in the stable mode given that we have all these fund structures in place and all that we shouldn't be doing a whole bunch of repatriating.
We've moved up the share of our U.S.
dollar equity to 82% already.
So there isn't that much more of money coming back and forth.
So I think you can think of effectively the present value of that leakage overseas if the absolute number is in the low single-digits the present value impact is going to be virtually zero.
And then from a sizing perspective when you think about the size of our development pipeline and this is on a long-term run-rate basis if you just assume for even that $2 billion of development that stabilizes a year and a long-term margin of 15% that's $300 million.
Probably two-thirds of that is happening outside the U.S.
and will ultimately affect your taxable income.
So a rough way to look at it would be about $200 million of potential taxable income as Hamid mentioned when it's repatriated could come back to your USTIs.
Our next question comes from the line of George Auerbach from ISI Group.
Your line is open.
Great thanks.
Hamid you mentioned the investment opportunity in Europe a few times now.
Can you give us a sense for any portfolio sized deals in the market today? And how long of a horizon you see to put capital to work in Europe at above average returns.
Well.
Cap rates in Europe have compressed a lot faster than I ever thought.
You really have this unusual situation where the appraisal community in Europe I would say is 50 to 100 but probably really more like 75 to 100 basis points behind real deals and we were very successful in the middle actually all in 2013 and early part of this year.
But now we are finding that we are actually losing deals portfolio deals by maybe 25 basis points on the cap rate.
So markets in Europe have adjusted very very quickly.
You still have a good discount to replacement costs because rents are pretty low and you can still buy properties at the replacement cost.
But the big surprise for me has been -- well UK really normalized in 2012 2013 but the continent was right after it.
And if I were going to guess probably since our Norges transaction there has been which I think was basically the coasts are clear and the water is safe sign I have mentioned those cap rates were down 75 basis points may be a 100 basis points and heading lower.
So the investment opportunities in Europe are quickly quickly dissipating.
They are still attractive because you still have rent growth but you don’t have the combination of really high cap rate compression or rent growth like you had before.
So still good but not great.
George I would just add that our pipeline is still pretty strong and we were looking at over €1.8 billion worth of acquisition opportunities.
And it’s a mix of one-off deals smaller portfolios call it in a $100 million range and then some larger portfolios.
But there is pretty good activity there and better product again then I have seen in the last decade that’s come in to market.
So there is still opportunity I think.
Our next question comes from the line of Craig Mailman from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thanks good afternoon guys.
Maybe could we just hit on U.S.
development a little bit you mentioned Dallas looks like it may be getting a little bit ahead of itself but -- and then Inland Empire and Houston they are still on demand there to absorb the supply but on the other side you said cap rates in the U.S.
are coming in a little bit more than you thought and may be that makes development easier.
I guess as you guys look out on the horizon are there more markets sort of on the bubble of getting to Dallas or even Houston Inland Empire type developments starts there that get you guys worried or at this point is the runway still pretty good here in the U.S.
for development?  Craig it is Gene I’ll take that one.
Generally the answer to your question is yes it does look pretty good.
If you look across U.S.
markets three of them stand out in particular Dallas recently we mentioned the Inland Empire and Houston.
But in all of those cases if you study the metrics you look at where their actual vacancy rates are today you look at historical absorption and supply as a percentage of stock it’s kind of in balance but it's ramping up quickly as Hamid mentioned in Dallas it's ramping up really quickly.
So those are three markets we have our eyes on.
We are very active in development in all three of them.
There is no doubt as this recovery takes shape that more markets will fall into that category but none of them are flashing red lights yet at this point.
So the only thing I would add is that keep the overall numbers in mind.
The overall numbers are last year 65 million feet of new supply 225 million feet of absorption.
We under-built the market by about a 160 million square feet.
That directly translated into vacancy rates dropping by more than any other year ever.
And by the way that doesn’t account for obsolescence putting that aside.
This year we think absorption is going to be around 200 million with construction increasing to about a 100 million square feet.
So the deficit that we had at the 160 million feet last year is going to be more like a 100 million feet this year which will mean that this will be the second best year for vacancy drop.
So now of that 100 million feet of supply my guess is 50% of it is in that three markets we’ve just talked about.
And the reason that development is occurring in those markets guess what rents have recovered to replacement type rents.
It’s not because people had more development talent or less disciplined or any -- or banks are more exuberant there.
It’s just that the rents have recovered earliest in those markets and those rents are [through peaks] [ph].
So I think this volume of construction is directly related to rents.
If rents pop 20% sooner than we thought you will get more development coming in these markets but until the other markets recover to the same extent I don't think you will see development.
Our next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim from SunTrust.
Your line is open.
Again Ki Bin Kim your line is open.
Ki Bin there is something wrong with your mike.
Why don't we skip over and come back to him.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Frankel from Green Street Advisors.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong> Thank you.
I was wondering if you could just talk about your development pipeline a little bit.
It seems like the number of starts is a little bit lower than I had probably anticipated given the amount of development you're expecting to be this year may be you can just comment on that? Thank you.
Sure Eric this is Mike Curless.
We are not particularly concerned about the first quarter.
Historically our first quarter is always by far our lightest quarter.
This year we started 13 projects they happen to be some smaller projects just due to mix and certainly weather was an impact on a couple of projects that we moved into the second quarter.
But relative to the overall volume for the year we certainly think there is bias to the upside 80% of all of our activity is already identified.
That's a very high number for this time of the year.
And 80% was going to take place on land that we already own.
The ramp up is already underway in Q2.
And we expect that to increase steadily all the way through to the end of Q4 which is pretty typical for our pattern of development for the year.
We continue to have bias to the upside in Europe.
And in Asia and don't rule out our [WC] business given our customer reach and our land control.
So we feel pretty good about some upside opportunities in those three important categories.
If history any indication we expect good margins again for the third year in a row.
So I feel real good about not just the quantity of the activity but more importantly the quality of that activity.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Rodgers from Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open.
Yeah maybe for Gene and/or Hamid I want to talk about capital raising in the U.S.
obviously fairly quiet in the first quarter and tying that into your disposition acceleration the election to pursue disposition as opposed to contribution.
So I guess one can you tie together the concept of capital raising in the U.S.
the appetite here both for you as well as the partners out there.
And then the second is if it's more of a property quality issue that you are trying to clean-up can you may be give a little color around cap rates and timing? Sure I think disposition is what we are buying and what we are selling are very different things.
We have some residual cleanup of the portfolio left in our non-strategic markets and also the less strategic assets in core markets.
And we're just getting along with that quicker than we would have otherwise because we see an opportunity to get good valuation.
So but what we are buying on for USLF primarily which is our active vehicle in the U.S.
we're being very selective and we're buying for not just quality core products that's a mandate of that fund.
And we are very mindful of replacement cost and like I said in my prepared comments we're looking at situations that either our scale or expertise can add value.
But it's getting tougher and tougher and one of the things that we don't want to do is sign up for a huge pipeline of capital.
There is plenty of interest for people who want to give us money.
We are being selective in managing our pipeline so that we not only can raise money but can invest that money intelligently without any undue pressure for people who want to get their capital to work.
So that's the balance.
It's not lack of interest from investors.
Quite to the contrary there is a lot of interest on the part of the investors and we're just trying to balance that with the opportunities that we see in the market.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
LLC</strong> Good morning.
Tom just given your comments about the increase in dispositions can you just give us an update where you expect in the year in terms of U.S.
equity exposures also overall leverage? And then also just so we have greater clarity in the promote I think you had said $0.04 last quarter is that still a good number to use? Sure Michael I'll take those up.
First the equity we expect to end the year our U.S.
equity balance between somewhere 85% and 90%.
So right on top of what our long-term goal is there.
From a leverage perspective if you look at the mid points of our sources and usage in our deployment and guidance that would put us right around 35% LTV at the end of the year.
If you remember when you look out to the first quarter 2015 two things are happening first we've got the convertible debt that we would expect to convert into equity.
That is roughly about 200 basis points of LTV.
And then we also have optionality around the sell down of our interest in the Health venture that would get us to the low very low near 30% LTV.
And your last question was on the promote.
Yes I said we expect that to be around $20 million net of expenses or roughly $0.04 recognized in the second quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum from UBS Securities.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Tom just on the same-store guidance how much of a tailwind should we expect on the expense side going forward for the remainder of the year? I think what you saw -- I don't think there will be much of a tailwind for the rest of the year.
What you saw in the first quarter was really the result of Q1 '13 expenses being higher than normal.
So you shouldn't see much of any tailwind at all from expenses.
We talked about this last quarter but when you look at same-store increase year-over-year you've got about 1.5% driven by just rent change.
So I think about 15% portfolio of your portfolio turning over 10% rent change about a 150 basis points of occupancy improvement.
So that's another 1.5% and then there is about 50 basis points of indexation that's not reflected in straight line rent.
So it's in this indexation primarily in Europe where it's not a fixed income but it's based on an index that floats therefore you can't straight line it.
So that indexation also comes through and that's about 50 basis points.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi.
I joined a little late I apologize if I missed this.
But I think you talked about longer-term development margins.
If you're looking at the next round of developments starts and where do you see the stabilized yields coming in and the margins on this next batch? I think for our starts this year the margins are going to be above 20% and I think I said this now I think three years in a row and I've been wrong I think they are going to gravitate down to 15 but I may be wrong.
I think our land is on the books at a pretty attractive price.
So while we're monetizing that land I think our margins will be over stated until we work our way through that land and have to buy new land at market.
And it's about a 2.5 year to 3 year supply the land on our books today.
I think if we're going to pick a number for our land today on the books of the 1.6 billion I would say that land is easily 20% or 25% undervalued with the big area up.
Our next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim from SunTrust.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong> Thanks.
Just have one follow-up on promote.
In 2015 it looks like a larger portion of it does come from some of your newer -- newly established joint -- JVs in Europe and given your commentary about cap rate compression there and if your promotes are structured the way they are historically as such are based on IRR than sort of the laddered promote structures.
I think it will be a pretty sizable promote just even if a 100 basis points of cap rate compression would drive a big part of the IR calculation.
As of today could you talk a little bit about what that size of promote would like potentially in 2015? Ki Bin it's dangerous to do that because a million things have to happen before that promote is realized including appraisers actually closing the gap between reality and what they are appraising.
That's been very sticky in Europe and they are really lagging as I've now said three times I think by 75 or 100 basis points.
I have no idea when they are going to start recognizing the evidence in the market very very sticky.
But the best way I think to think about our promotes is that if you think that we're going to outperform our indices by call it 200 basis points of performance and historically that’s been about the order of magnitude or the outperformance that the company's experienced with that big range but kind of averaging around 200 basis points above the indices.
The promotes are 15% to 20%.
So that translates into $0.30 to $0.40 of gross promotes and the net promote is about 60% of the gross promote.
So I think of it as a 25% 25 basis point of AUM third party AUM of-course we are not charging ourselves promotes right.
So take the third party AUM and if you want to model something that's relatively regular that’s the number I would use particularly now that we are getting into the period that there is almost a promote coming in every period.
You are going to get some volatility around that but that’s of a kind not a bad bullet point.
And I would say they would be biased towards the upside of that in the next three or four years given that we are recovering from a really horrible three or four year period where there were no promotes and most values are reverting to the norm.
So I think we are entering a good period of promotes for the company and it’s a real part of our business I wish people would go spread it forth.
Our next question comes from Brendan Maiorana from Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
LLC</strong> Thanks I had a couple of follow-ups.
Just first on the new supply versus the net absorption calculation or projection I know for 2014 it’s been consisting a 100 million of its new expectations versus 200 million.
I wonder based on where the development starts are shaping up how you think that outlook may trend in 2015? And then second question the improvement in the secondary market location which is causing you had sell some of your none-core assets.
Is that driven by improvement in fundamentals in those markets is it accelerating more in the secondary markets? Or is it just capital slowing into those markets because cap rates in primary markets are low? I think fundamentals are getting better in all markets so including the secondary market.
So the way the capital means that you can achieve better pricing in those markets in terms of timing then we thought otherwise.
So the transactions that were slated for late there is no sense waiting for later because you can achieve the same thing earlier and the decision the same those have been determined to be non-strategic and so we are going to sell it.
And what was the first part of question? LLC</strong> The ag -- what happened in 2015? Supply will be up only because rents will be up and it will make more sense to build in more market.
So again we shouldn’t think about these issues in compartments.
Supply relates to where rents are and where profitable development can take place.
And if you buy the thesis of recovery in a broader range of markets you would see development in a broader range of market.
But again let me put this in perspective I’ve been in this business since 1983.
That’s I hate to say it but that’s 31 years.
There have never been periods where we have under-built the demand in the U.S.
anywhere near these levels that we experienced last year and this coming year and next year.
It’s just unprecedented so vacancies are compressing rapidly.
And I think together with that rents are increasing rapidly and it’s not because this all of a sudden became the best business in the worlds.
It’s because we are climbing out of the basement the basement that we all fell into in '08 and '09.
So afterwards -- climbing out of the basement let’s see how disappointed people are just to point that we will have a good long term sustainable period of rent growth once we’ve reached a equilibrium.
But between now and equilibrium expect a rapid rent growth.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Specter of Bank of America.
You line is open.
Great thanks it's Jimmy Feldman again.
I was hoping you guys could talk a little bit more about the types of tenant demand you are seeing? And may be how it’s changing or how you might expect it to change over the near term given where we are in the economic cycle? In fact in terms of sectors then and what people are doing with this base? Jimmy this is Mike Curless certainly seeing a lot of movement in a variety of sectors and our customer demands e-commerce packaging housing related auto related.
E-commerce is a real large driver there probably see them doing about 15% of the activity in our existing portfolio in our new space in the development pipeline those numbers are more like 30% of that activity the space sizes tend to much larger than traditional brick and mortar uses.
So plenty of activity in e-commerce.
The customers are gravitating towards large population centers the Amazon affect is well underway in terms of people wanting to be closer to the customers for the possibility of same day delivery.
So we're seeing a lot of activity in our global markets and that plays very well with our platform given our high percentage of land and buildings in those particular markets.
The only thing that I would add is that the three PLs are back.
There are big customer segment for us.
And if you would ask me a year ago how the three PLs were reacting they were securing a contract logistics contract before the secured real-estate and today it's exactly the opposite.
They realized that because of the dwindling supply they have to secure the real-estate in order secured logistics contract.
So I would say that's an interesting trend that's occurred over the course of last 12 months.
Globally? Globally yeah.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman from Citi.
Your line is open.
Yes I had a few follow ups almost rattle them off just things to NOI you present the gross basis I am just curious what that would be on a pro-largest share effectively your consolidated plus your share of joint ventures number one.
Number two the Japan land sale 21 acres for $55 million $107 per billable foot seems high.
I know land prices are high in Japan just curious what's going on there.
The third just ATM I know you had the ATM last June you didn't issue anything you -- how should we think about your intent to use it going forward.
And lastly just on the expense recovery rate it was about 79% this quarter which was higher than last year higher than the first quarter of last year so it seems like that perhaps had something to do I am not sure with same-store expenses and revenues if you can just clarify what's your hope that would be helpful? Thanks.
So Michael I would be happy to answer any one of those questions that you select.
What would you like me to take which one would you like to take.
We are trying to have the fair process for everybody to get their questions in so.
All right you can answer equity one first and then I'll re-queue up for the same-store which would be the second one just to understand.
So that would be great.
We don't foresee any need for equity in our business for all the reasons that Tom talked about.
And yes we do have the ATM program in place and we did renew but we don’t expect to be underneath it unless our investment opportunities set changes from where it is today and where we see it today.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Frankel from Green Street Advisors.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong> Thank you.
Can you maybe just discuss what's causing the increase in prices or decrease in cap rates.
Our understanding is that a lot of the institutional capital has been partnering with most of those to build those new shiny product.
But it appears that it's now kind of gone the other way where B product is getting a little bit of better because rapidly improving better fundamentals.
I am just trying to figure out is a lot of new capital also or the same capital willing to allocate more.
Our impression is that there is a lot of private equity that's interested in the sector and it is the weight of capital and it's almost interested in bulking up plays are popular.
So I guess that's the incremental capital we see in the marketplace the institutional stuff.
And the non-traded green sector continue to be active.
But I would say the incremental capital is really private equity Mike do you have more --? More to add there Yeah when you see 15 or 20 people trying to buy a product in LA and obviously only one could be successful.
You are seeing four or five people on that list moving to B product and or moving to regional markets as well.
We continue to see a real lot of capital and quite a few new players in the mix these days.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael J.
Salinsky from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
LLC</strong> May be just going back to the compression you talked about in cap rates in Europe over the last six months relative to what you are seeing in terms of rent growth are return thresholds coming in or is your expectation in '14 '15 '16 that the growth is going to accelerate to justify that compression at this point? I think it's anticipation of rent growth and availability of financing in Europe that are the two things that changed and also I think Financing in Europe that are the two things that are changed.
And also I think it is the fact that the ice was broken I really think our Norges transaction without dwelling on that too much was really a sign that the waters are safe.
And almost immediately after that people start piling into Europe in a big way.
So I think primarily the cap rents that were high higher than elsewhere in the globe because the financing markets were more frozen then the rest of the globe attracted people in.
Now that cap rates have compressed I think people are attracted to Europe not because there is a little bit more cap rates compression that’s going to happen but also rent growth is kicking in and you can still buy product that’s below.
So I think that’s the attraction and it can be all finance now which it couldn’t be two years ago so those are the dynamics.
The way I would think about it Michael was that is just like the U.S.
may be two and half year lag with may be the UK being only a year and half behind the U.S.
and some of the parts of Eastern and Southern Europe been three years behind the U.S.
and sort of the average of Europe being two and half years failing the U.S.
same pattern.
Focus on the core market today in Europe and they will gravitate to the secondary markets over time.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman.
Your line is open.
More questions than -- can you hear me now? Michael it’s your turn again.
Yeah I can hear you.
Can you hear me? We can hear you fine.
I thought round two we get more questions I apologize.
I didn’t read the rules correctly enough.
So just on saying that… Okay I may give you two.
Okay.
Same-store NOI you presented on the total share what would that be in terms of just Prologis’ share and were there anything funky going on in the consolidated portfolio on expense recovery is that certainly higher year-over-year and I don’t know if it played until the total things stores well? So Michael -- so you are right.
What we present is that on demand it's across our entire stack at same-store.
I don’t have our proportionate share committed to memory I can certainly follow up on that but it's certainly higher than the owned to manage because of the rails of U.S.
waiting.
So when you think about our U.S.
equity now across 80% that will really drive our underlying earnings.
And when you look at how the U.S.
is leading the charge on all the operating metrics whether it’s rent change on rolling in the quarter was 10.4%.
So our bottom line our look through would be better than owned to manage.
And then on the expense recovery side as I mentioned earlier there is nothing going on unusual other than Q1 of ’13 expenses were higher than normal and that's the trail off that you see this year and going forward for the rest of this year we don’t expect any unusual expense changes and that’s going to be the real occupancy and rents driving same store.
Hey Michael by the way one thing I would add just to philosophically so you understand why we don’t crack that number separately is that we’ve really always operated under this philosophy of one portfolio policy and there -- our people on the field don’t really differentiate whether we own 20% or something 50% or something or a 100%or something we run it on ownership blind basis.
And the stats are reported on an ownership blind basis for that reason.
That’s the only way we can do a good job for our institutional investors.
So really the only thing that Mike -- that Tom is talking about is the mix.
We have more fund mix in our non U.S.
business then our U.S.
business.
So -- and given that the U.S.
is early that the mix would drive you to that conclusion.
But we actually don’t track those kinds of numbers by ownership type at all.
(Operator Instructions).
Our next question comes from the line of David Harris from Imperial Capital.
Your line is open.
Yeah hello thanks for taking my question.
I apologies if you covered this I was a little late on the call but if I look at your development cost capitalization you are running it fairly close to a $150 million on an annualized basis.
Is that cost fully reflected in the development margins that you are quoting on page 23 and 24 of the current development program? Yes it is David and it’s a good question.
I'm actually glad somebody asked it because I get that question at NAREIT all the time.
The development margins that we report not only includes capitalized overhead that matches the number that you mention but it also includes a full carry on the entire capital not just on the debt portion that's assigned to that project.
So we capitalize carry throughout the development process until it reaches stabilization.
So I know some people don't do it quite that way and therefore our margins if they were done in the alternative way would even appear higher than they are today.
Okay last opportunity for Michael to ask a question.
The line is clear.
Hearing none I want to thank you for your time on this call and look forward to talking to you at NAREIT bye-bye.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Steve and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Prologis Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Tracy Ward you may begin your conference.
Investor Relations</strong> Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our second quarter earnings conference call.
The supplemental document is available on our website at prologis.com under Investor Relations.
This morning we will hear from Hamid Moghadam our Chairman and CEO who will comment on the company’s strategy and the market environment; and then from Tom Olinger our CFO who will cover results and guidance.
Also joining us for today’s call are Gary Anderson Mike Curless Ed Nekritz Gene Reilly and Diana Scott.
Before we begin our prepared remarks I’d like to state that this call will contain forward-looking statements under federal securities laws.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates and projections about the market and the industry in which Prologis operates as well as management’s beliefs and assumptions.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and actual operating results may be affected by a variety of factors.
For a list of those factors please refer to the forward-looking statement notice in our 10-K or SEC filing.
Additionally our second quarter results press release and supplemental do contain financial measures such as FFO and EBITDA that are non-GAAP measures and in accordance with Reg G we have provided reconciliation to those measures.
With that I will turn the call over to Hamid and we will get started.
Thanks Tracy and good morning everyone.
The second quarter was one of the best we have had in recent memory.
Each of the three business plans contributed to our strong performance.
With our portfolio repositioning now substantially behind us our investment strategy is even more focused than before.
We operate only in the best markets serving global trade and regional distribution.
The benefits of the strategy were evident in the following operating metrics.
Our same-store NOI growth reached its highest level since the downturn.
We have had six consecutive quarters of positive rent growth on rollover.
Small unit leasing is up in the U.S.
and we are seeing a surge in our value-added conversion business.
On the capital deployment front we started new developments with higher than average margins.
We have a growing pipeline of opportunities and a land bank well positioned to serve the needs of our customers.
Turning to capital flows we continue to see strong institutional interest for industrial real estate.
As a result cap rates continued to compress as evidenced in recent portfolio transactions.
The impact of declining cap rates on our NAV is significant.
In fact we have seen cap rates compress about 25 basis points since our investor forum last September.
This translates to more than $2 per share of NAV.
The improving markets are also having a positive impact on our value-added conversion activity.
This business is unique to several of our key markets that are subject to strong urbanization pressure.
We believe our value-added conversion business is poised to produce meaningful gains and NAV appreciation as we convert some of our industrial properties to higher and better uses particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area which is benefiting from rapid growth of the technology sector.
Now let’s turn to our co-investment activity which is hitting on all cylinders.
During the quarter we recognized a significant promote for USLF.
And we completed our IPO in Mexico.
The FIBRA simplifies our structure and positions us for long-term growth in this important region.
With this offering perpetual life vehicles now account for about 95% of our third-party assets under management.
We also expanded our relationship with our partner in China and raised new capital for open-ended funds in the U.S.
and Europe.
As our capital activity now includes both public and private sources on a go forward basis we will refer to this business as strategic capital to better describe the focus of these investment vehicles on specific segments of our business.
Let me conclude my comments with a few observations on the current market conditions.
In the U.S.
we see our customers being more decisive and proactive to commit to space in anticipation of growth really for the first time since the global financial crisis.
This demand stems from growing inventories up 5% from last year in real terms and 3% higher than the prior peak.
We are in the 17th consecutive quarter of absorption in excess of supply for industrial space.
As a result this excess demand of vacancy continues to trend lower and at 6.8% is now the lowest level in 15 years.
In Europe leasing remains very strong in the UK Germany Netherlands and the Nordic region while Southern Europe and a few markets in Central and Eastern Europe continued to lag all our European markets have now turned the corner.
In Japan China Brazil and Mexico we continued to see excellent leasing momentum.
This backdrop supports our plans for growth as our development markets by and large have remained disciplined around margins and risk levels.
To sum it all up the second quarter was one of our best ever.
As we look forward we believe the combination of rental growth the profitable development of our land bank and the scaling of our platform set us well – it set us up well for an extended period of above average earnings growth.
With that I will turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Hamid.
I will start with our results for the second quarter.
Core FFO was $0.48 per share.
Quarter end occupancy was 94.6% up 90 basis points year-over-year.
GAAP rent change on rollover was 6.6% led by the U.S.
at 12.1%.
Cash rent change on rollover was a positive 0.6%.
GAAP same store NOI increased (3 points) in the quarter the majority of the increase was driven by occupancy and rent growth.
Looking further into this metric average occupancy was up 110 basis points versus the prior period while 23% of our leases in the same store pool rolled over last four quarters at an average increase of 6%.
We did benefit from some non-recurring items mainly lower expenses which had a positive impact of about 70 basis points on our same store results for the quarter.
On an adjusted cash basis same store NOI grew 5.3%.
Turning to capital deployment during the quarter we continued to see development margins well above our historical average.
Development stabilizations were $371 million with an estimated margin of 23%.
We generated $82 million of our share value creation or about $0.16 a share.
Development starts were $439 million with an estimated margin of 19%.
We invested $412 million in building acquisitions and in our co-investment ventures.
Contributions were $26 million and non-strategic building dispositions were $520 million totaling $546 million or $443 million our share at a weighted average stabilized cap rate of 6.6%.
As Hamid mentioned we closed our IPO in Mexico this quarter.
The formation of FIBRA Prologis was not reflected as the contribution given our underlying ownership interest in those assets remained unchanged.
We received equity certificates in exchange for our portion of the Mexican operating assets and hold a 45% ownership stake in FIBRA.
This new structure allowed us to reduce the number ventures in Mexico with a permanent vehicle resulting in a simplified structure and lower G&amp;A.
Moving to strategic capital operating income was $48 million in the quarter which includes $25 million of promote income from our targeted U.S.
Logistics Fund.
Switching gears to capital markets we are taking every opportunity to secure long-term capital at today’s costs to enhance both composition of our debt portfolio and liquidity.
In the second quarter we completed $3.6 billion of financings.
We used the majority of the debt proceeds to retire over $1 billion of secured and unsecured debt in the second quarter and an additional $466 million in this month.
The debt retirement was at near zero economic cost on an MPV basis.
We now have no meaningful debt maturities until 2017.
The cumulative effect of our debt activity over the past 12 months has had a very meaningful impact on our balance sheet.
We lowered the interest rate on our bonds by 160 basis points to 4%.
We added 3.1 years to the average term of our bonds and 2.3 years to the overall debt stack and shifted U.S.
dollar denominated unsecured debt to euro and yen increasing our U.S.
dollar net equity to 85%.
We accomplished of all this while building over $3 billion of liquidity.
Let’s turn to guidance for 2014.
We are nearing the range for year end occupancy to between 95.2% and 95.8% and GAAP same-store NOI growth to between 3.25% and 3.75%.
On net G&amp;A we narrowed the range to between $238 million to $243 million.
Looking forward we believe we can grow AUM with little if any incremental G&amp;A.
For capital deployment we are taking our guidance up to reflect the current pipeline of opportunities we are seeing across our geographies.
We are increasing development starts to between $2 billion and $2.3 billion with 85% of our share and increasing building acquisitions to $1.3 billion to $1.6 billion with 45% of our share.
We are lowering contribution guidance to between $1.6 billion and $1.8 billion with 55% our share primarily due to timing.
For dispositions we are increasing guidance to $1.3 billion to $1.6 billion with 90% our share.
From a funding perspective we have ample liquidity to fund our incremental net deployment.
For strategic capital guidance we are increasing the revenue range to $220 million to $225 million and expenses to $100 million and $105 million generating an operating margin of over 50%.
These increases are results of the higher promote income and fees from the FIBRA.
I want to point out that strategic capital revenue in the third quarter will decrease due to the impact of the USLF promote in the second quarter.
We expect our next promote to be in 2015.
For FX we are maintaining our assumptions for the euro at 1.35 and the yen at 105 for the second half of the year.
We expect our U.S.
dollar net equity to further improve and reach almost 90% by year end.
Putting this all together we are exceeding our forecast on all fronts.
And as a result we are raising our full year core FFO to range between a $$1.82 and $1.86 per share.
This represents an increase of $0.05 at the midpoint and year-over-year growth in core FFO of 11.5% and translates to full core AFFO growth in the high-teens.
The recent credit rating upgrades from Moody’s and S&amp;P are further affirmation of our earnings trajectory and operational outlook.
Importantly we are well on our way to building one of the strongest balance sheets in the REIT sector.
In closing we had great results for the second quarter with each of our business lines outperforming.
Looking forward we expect core earnings growth to accelerate as both rents and occupancies continue to increase and to properly capitalize on deployment opportunities across the globe.
With that I will turn it over to the operator for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa with ISI Group.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning out there.
I guess kind of a two-parter but could you maybe just expand a little bit more on the development starts it seems like the business is very back-end loaded.
It sounds like you are pretty confident about that.
How should we sort of think about the starts by quarter? And then I guess I was just wondering if you could get a little more color on the decline in the contributions and you say it’s timing related Tom but what sort of can you tell us what’s going on there? Yes.
I will take the second part of the question first.
So it’s just due to timing of contributions primarily in Europe that are going to move into the first quarter for a variety of reasons.
It has nothing to do with the underlying performance of those assets.
It’s just the timing of when those assets will move off our balance sheet.
And Steve it’s Mike Curless.
Relative to the development volume we had a late first quarter but as expected and that was due to seasonality and mix primarily but in the second quarter we had a substantial ramp up and we expect that for the balance of the year.
We have increased our guidance range to over $2 billion.
And we are highly confident in that when you consider 95% of the remaining work to do is identified and I contrast that with this time last year we were 80% on that number.
We think there is some bias to the upside on U.S.
build-to-suit some activity in China.
And in terms of the complexity or complexion of that work we will see over the year 50% should take place in the Americas 30% in Asia and call it 20% in Europe and at the end of the day about 25% in build-to-suit.
So we are very comfortable with not only the length of our prospect list but more importantly the strength of that prospect list.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Rodgers with Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Good morning out there.
I did want to follow up on two things.
I guess first talk a little bit about the investment in the NAIF fund in the U.S.
Was that I guess in taking out an existing shareholder was that just net growth capital talk about your feeling about putting more money into the U.S.? We like the values.
It’s real estate we obviously know really well.
And I think the ability to deploy capital in proprietary ways in portfolios that we know really well is exactly what we should be doing.
We have done it over the years and there was an opportunity to do some more of it this quarter yes.
And by definition since the fund has not been raising new capital for growth the only way that can take place in the particular fund is to buy out other investors.
That may want to re-deploy their capital.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana from Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I am wondered if you guys could comment on the outlook for occupancy and compare that to what you are trying to do with rent spreads it looks like on the occupancy increase at the midpoint of your guidance by year end is up about 100 basis points.
But I think the expectation was that rent growth would start to materialize more meaningfully as we move throughout the year.
So do you still expect that rent spreads should move higher even though occupancy it sounds like you expect to be significantly higher by year end as well? Yes Brendan it’s Gene.
I will start with that and Gary can comment the rest with geographies but we do absolutely expect that rent spreads will continue to grow in the America.
So we are at 11.3%.
And if you look over the past five quarters we have grown that from 2% or 3% and at a pretty straight line up to that level.
So we think that will continue.
We think in the U.S.
we will have a chance for somewhat higher occupancies but frankly we have the teams now really focus on rent growth.
So those are the dynamics that play really throughout the Americas including Brazil and Mexico.
And I will turn it to Gary.
Yes.
So Brendan in Asia as you know we have been bouncing around between 95% and 96%.
And that’s right where we want to be.
We are pushing rents in both Japan and China.
And we expect that to continue through the balance of the year.
If you look at Europe we grew occupancies 30 basis points and we would expect to grow occupancies over the course of the year.
Europe is a little bit of a mixed back as we have talked about before as Hamid said on the opener.
UK is strong.
Northern Europe is strong.
Central and Eastern Europe and Southern Europe are lagging.
So in terms of rents spreads we are able to push rents in those two key geographies and in the others we are not.
If you look at this quarter in particular about 75% of our leasing in Europe was in Central and Eastern Europe and Southern Europe.
So not an opportunity to push rents there.
And as you go forward at least for the next two quarters you see sort of about the same trend.
So we are not expecting any real rent growth out of Europe but we will be getting it out of the Americas as Gene mentioned out of Asia.
Yes.
The only thing I would add to what Gary said in Europe is that cap rates in Europe have compressed a lot faster than we thought when we put together our long-term rent forecast and obviously declining cap rates are a headwind for rent growth.
So I would say rent growth in Europe is probably delayed by some period maybe six months maybe a year but boy cap rates have come in over 100 basis points in most of the continental market.
So I think it’s impact on NAV would be very positive.
Yes.
And Brendan just one other thing as Hamid pointed out at the beginning of the call.
We think that all of the markets in Europe have bottomed and have turned in the right direction.
And I think that Europe will actually be a tailwind for us going into and through 2015.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman from Citi.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Good morning out there.
So I had a question in terms of the North American fund buy-in.
If you take your $275 million of equity growth setup for the 19% stake and adding the debts you get to a gross book value just under $2.6 billion which would be about 6.5% effective cap rate on that capital that you put in.
So one I just wanted to understand how does that 6.5% compared to what the NAV of the fund is in terms of this proprietary book that you talked about.
My sense is it would be lower but I wanted to sort to get sort of your view number one? And number two how does that $275 million of equity $480 gross in terms of the assumption of debt factor into the capital deployment on Slide 8.
Is that in there or not? Thank you.
I will let Tom answer the latter part of your question but 6.5% your math is pretty close.
It’s in that range plus or minus some basis points.
We acquired it at stated NAV which is determined by third-party appraisers on a regular basis.
But we see value in that NAV as you know appraisals can lag they can lead but we know the portfolio well you got to know what the mix of the assets is which you don’t as well as we do.
And we think that represents really good value and very inexpensive for business for us to pickup because we are managing it anyway.
So we like those kinds of deals and we look forward to doing more of those kinds of deals at the right points in the cycle.
Tom do you? So Michael that investment was not reflected in our acquisition guidance.
So it’s not reflected as part of the number shown on Page 8 incremental to that.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Vance Edelson from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
It looks like you expect stabilized development deals to even out globally by 2015 and beyond settling in around 7% versus the range by region we see today.
That could suggest either you are not sure so you just estimate everything will come out around the same or in your case I am guessing there is some good analysis behind it.
So how confident are you that the development yields will increase slightly in the Americas and Asia while coming down by a 1% or so in Europe.
I am not sure that’s the math we don’t do it that way put it this way.
The way we do our development forecasting is that we have some bottom line numbers bottoms up numbers from each region in terms of their pipeline which is pretty visible at this point certainly for the balance of this year and into next year.
And we kind of know the economics of those deals plus or minus a little bit than we crank them in.
So it really varies depending on what the land is on the books for and whether that land was impaired whether that land was acquired recently or a long time ago.
So it’s not as simple as just taking a region of the world and applying a yield to it and mixing it up.
And really you need to get more granular than that and it’s pretty impossible for you guys to do that based on the information that there is out there.
And what’s more important as Hamid was referring to is the margin right.
So when you look at the margins that we are expecting on starts for this year it’s going to be in the high-teens.
And we have been stabilizing in the low 20s and we are going to continue to see the benefit of a land bank that’s under fair value – undervalued from a fair value perspective benefit our starts and our stabilizations with probably into 2016.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Specter with Bank of America.
Your line is opened.
Great thank you.
This is Jamie Feldman here with Jeff.
So can you guys talk a little bit about the supply story and what you are seeing across the markets versus where you were last quarter or even at NAREIT just in terms of supply risk? And then how you think that plays out to your expectation for rent growth I guess even on a multi-year view which you guys gave at the Investor Day for both rent growth and even the same-store outlook.
So Jamie it’s Gene.
I will start with that.
So our view in the supply picture in the Americas really hasn’t changed over the last quarter.
I mean there are three distinct markets that are sort of close to equilibrium Houston Dallas and Southern California.
Some other markets Baltimore for example has got a lot of supply coming on in line but essentially it’s those three and not much has changed.
And quarter-to-quarter some have actually dropped in terms of quarterly starts some have increased but it’s – more importantly I think you need to look at what’s happening in the big picture what’s in that pipeline and how is that compared to absorption.
We are pretty comfortable frankly that overall Dallas and Southern California still have excess demand.
Now there are certain submarkets of Dallas South Dallas in particular that we think are oversupplied.
And I think we talked about that last quarter.
Houston has a little bit of excess supply but frankly we stabilized two buildings in Houston this quarter almost 300 000 feet it’s 100% leased and we will continue to build product that’s core for us in Houston.
And that’s going to be catered to 30 000 to 100 000 square foot tenants.
Demand there is still pretty robust.
So again that’s a long way of saying not much has changed.
Relative to the second part of your question I think it’s the replacement cost rents.
How is this really going to affect the rent picture? And let me give you sort of big picture what we say happening in the U.S.
Over the last year let’s say we think that the cost of construction essentially the hired cost have grown around 6%.
We think land values are up around 12%.
And you have had some cap rate compression.
And if you mix that all together replacement cost rents are growing at sort of 2% to 2.5% over that period of time.
Over the next year we think replacement cost rents are going to grow more like 5% because we don’t frankly you don’t have the cap rate compression in the equation as of right now.
So there are certain submarkets I mentioned South Dallas where we are going to have headwinds on the rent growth.
But overall we remain pretty bullish about it throughout the Americas.
So Jamie really quick on Asia and Europe if you look at China again tremendously undersupplied today.
I think our rent change on roll this quarter came in the low-teens.
We have projected call it 6% market rent growth over the next four years or so and we are exceeding that.
Japan again still undersupplied.
We are seeing pretty greater rent growth than we had originally anticipated.
It’s coming faster in Japan.
You will see a little tick up in vacancy rates in the Tokyo market this coming quarter maybe up to 5% or 6% but again not a concern.
Moving to Europe we are still undersupplied in Europe.
You don’t really see new starts but for build-to-suit starts there maybe a handful of spec buildings than just a handful of sub-markets.
And I think in Europe we have seen again 11 consecutive quarters of positive net absorption.
So we are really in pretty good shape there as well from a supply standpoint.
Jamie to tie back to the last Investor Day I think we are right on track.
If anything we are a tad ahead in terms of timing particularly in the U.S.
we are a tad behind in Europe because of that cap rate compression that we talked about but generally if you mix – and we are ahead in Japan for sure.
So China is about on target.
So if you mix it all up together I would say we are on or slightly above plan given the size of the U.S.
and on the same trajectory as we had nine months in a row whenever we did that.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Great thank you.
Nice quarter guys.
Quick question if I look at your development spreads is that before or after taxes and how are you guys handling just very complicated corporate tax differences between countries? It is an after tax margin.
So we reflect all taxes in there.
And in the vast majority of the cases the actual tax that’s embedded in those margins is fairly modest because we have the ability to – if we are contributing an asset into a fund to do it on a highly effective tax manner to minimize taxes.
And then upon sale any taxes are typically transferred or shared because they are typically entity sales so the tax on that is pretty modest.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Can you just talk a little bit more about your lease spread commentary I think you said 35% of the leases that were signed in Europe are Central Europe is that the case next year and what does that mean or imply about the lease spreads overall that you might be seeing when you look out further than just the next couple of quarters? Okay so in Europe it’s hard to say what the future is going to be exactly because we don’t know what will be leased but this specific quarter 73% were in Central and Eastern Europe and Southern Europe.
As you look forward for the next two quarters the lease expirations that we see so that obviously doesn’t complete new leases but the lease expirations are in that same sort of range.
So I would expect that you won’t see again a substantial contribution from Europe at least for the next two quarters in terms of rental growth.
But I do expect as we push occupancies up into 2015 that Europe will begin to contribute more so than it has in this quarter.
Ki Bin this is Tom from an overall trending perspective looking into next year when you look at our lease expirations and we show that on Page 22 of our supplemental.
You can see on an our share basis rents rolling next year at 529 a foot.
Overall portfolio is at 550 a foot.
We think today in place to market is about 90%.
So we are under – our portfolio is under leased by about 10% but when you look specifically 2015 it is more than 10% under market.
And that’s just the composition of the roll.
The vast majority of the leases that are rolling in the next few years are post prior peak periods a lot of them during the crisis.
So you are going to see more than that a 10% mark to market on leases that are rolling into next year.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Craig Mailman with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Just two quick ones on same store NOI you guys had a nice accelerating trend last couple of quarters but you have also been helped out a little bit on the expense side does that become a headwind at all in the current kind of the trend in the second half of the year.
And then this is second question can you guys just talk a little about the turnover costs this quarter and whether that’s just skewed by a couple of leases or a more of a kind you guys are seeing? Craig this is Tom.
It’s not going to be a headwind for us as we look at same store in 2014 or 2015 a lot of the expense benefits that’s going on are just where we are in the cycle lower bad debt expense other lower slippage just via higher occupancy.
So I don’t think it’s a trend that impacts us going forward.
And related to the turnover costs we are doing more small-unit leasing right now that’s what’s vacant in the portfolio and that has higher turnover costs associated with it.
We also had a higher ratio of new leases to renewals and new leases have a significantly higher turnover costs.
So those two things sort of gave us a little bit of a spike this quarter.
I think the best that for you look at is the turnover costs for the value of the lease so that’s 9% this quarter.
I don’t think it will stay at that level.
I think it will come down.
But we will continue to have higher volumes in the small unit leasing going forward.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS Securities.
Your line is open.
Alright.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Can you talk about the $1.8 billion of land on the book so I am a little curious if I divide it up between the U.S.
and Europe how much of the U.S.
land is what I would call legacy from the last cycle and how much of it’s been bought in the past couple of years.
And maybe the same question on Europe although I am assuming most of the land in Europe is legacy where I am going with this is I am trying to sort of figure out if you look at the value per acre which say in the U.S.
is like 140 grand an acre how that book value compares to where you have been buying land lately? Thanks.
So the vast majority of it is old land because first of all you say in the last couple of years the land market didn’t really start moving until about 6 to 12 months ago.
So there was very little liquidity in the land market not a lot of trades in the land market.
So I think you really by couple of years ago you mean last year and by definition that’s couple of hundred million dollars of land acquisition that has not been put in production and has gone into the land bank.
So I would say 80-20 so 80% of it is old land 20% of it is new land.
That’s not a scientific number but it should be directionally correct.
Mike any additional color on that? Yes.
Another thing I think it’s important to point out is the land that we have purchased here in the last couple of years worldwide some 90% of that is at a building put into production right off the bat within – I am sorry within the first 18 months.
And you see in Japan that line gets put into production sometimes a week after we buy it.
So I think we are doing a really good job there of managing our land bank going forward.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
My question has been answered.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Burke with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
I wanted to talk about development more it just looks like this quarter saw a slight decline in your expected margins on new starts versus where you have been at for the past year or so.
And I realized they have been telling us that we can’t continue to expect 20% plus development work.
I was hoping you could elaborate on whether there is anything specific that would push these margins to a more normalized rate because it sounds like rental rates continue to surprise you to the upside or is one quarter just future operating make any conclusions about the trend in development margin? The latter.
Okay.
I mean I can give you a longer answer but it’s the latter.
And that number will come down to about 15% but it will take a few years because we got to work through this old land before it does come down.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Eric Frankel with Green Street Advisors.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
You are talking little bit earlier about the release of spreads in the rent growth trajectory can you just maybe touch upon the vintage of leases that are rolling over now maybe the percentages that were signed post 2009 and pre-2009? Thank you.
Yes.
So Eric let me start with Q2 the leases that we signed in Q2 this quarter 5% of them were signed before June of 2008 95% of them were signed after June 2008.
And of those after 2008 35% were in the trough.
Okay.
If you look at our overall portfolio as of June 30 15% were signed before June 2008 therefore 85% signed after 30% during the trough.
So net-net we think we have got a pretty good runway of below market leases rolling for the next couple of years.
So one other factor that I want to bring in this would be a good time as follow up to Eric’s question to make you all aware of.
I think it scratched my head quite a bit as to why consistently the same-store NOI forecasted that you guys put out are low in this improving part of the cycle.
And I think we have not done a good job of communicating something that happens to our business which I want to just outline for you.
Basically if you take our rollover schedule on an annual basis and just let’s make it simple let’s say we are signing 5-year leases and on average 20% of the portfolio rolls over.
That understates the real rollover and the ability to move up rents at the good point of the cycle by about 30% maybe a little more than 30% at times.
So the theoretical number of rollover is 20%.
The actual number in a given year maybe 25% 26% of the overall portfolio and that number is about 30% in the good part of the cycle because the lot of tenants that need more space less space different kind of space and they have old leases they come to us and they say we’d like to turn up that lease we’d like to take the expansion space.
We would like to do something different than when their lease technically expires.
And of course so far in an up-market we like doing that because we can get their space back and lease it up at the higher rent and lease some new space at the higher rent.
So in a rising market the turnover statistic understates our opportunity to capture upside in rents.
Now you might ask what happens in the downturn.
In the downturn does it go the other way? It doesn’t really because unless there is a default we are not going to write down the rent to market in case of a voluntary early termination of the lease.
So there is – the portfolio has a quicker ability to adjust to the upside when rents are escalating as much as they are now.
And once you include that in your analysis I think you will get a lot closer to the kind of same-store numbers that we have been talking about and finally getting close to achieve it.
So going forward don’t be surprised if your turnover ratios going back into the same-store NOI that you will see coming through in our portfolio.
So an example of that would be the same-store pool for the last four quarters we turned 23% of our same-store leases.
Anyway I hope that helps.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Your line is opened.
Thanks hi.
It seems like you are seeing more acquisition opportunities.
I was wondering what you think is driving that and is there a regional bias to it? We are seeing more acquisition opportunities in two places.
One what we talked about some proprietary deal flow through our funds.
And by the way we don’t do every deal that becomes available in our funds either.
We only do it when we see value.
I mean there are cases where there has been opportunity to deploy more capital in our funds and we have just not availed ourselves of that opportunity.
The second place is Europe while cap rates in Europe have compressed rapidly faster that our expectations.
We still think there is another 6 to 12 months of cap rate compression left in Continental Europe.
So don’t be surprised to see us be a pretty active acquirer of assets in Europe at below replacement cost.
So those are the two places I would guide your attention.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is opened.
Good afternoon.
Hamid or Gene could you talk a bit about the strengths you referenced in the small bulk space you got to put a little bit of numbers what kind of spreads are you seeing on small bulk renewal right now versus some of the bigger bulk space? Yes.
It’s Gene.
That’s a good question.
So in small unit leasing we’ve increased occupancy pretty substantially all over the last couple of years.
But we’ve got to ways to go so we’re in the Americas 92 and changed.
But the real story is the rent spreads.
We are over 12% rent spreads on small unit leasing this quarter.
And that’s had a nice run like the rest of portfolio over the last four quarters and we think that will continue.
So you think about replacement cost analysis for these small units.
We are way below placement cost rents right now.
So there is actually more upside in that segment so we believe that’s going to continue.
I would say just we have got the similar focus in small spaces in Europe but we just don’t have the pricing power at this point in time.
So we need to get to a place where the Americas is we are plus 90% 92% in that segment start pushing rents in that segment but we are not there yet.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Your line is opened.
Thank you.
So I just wanted to follow back up just in terms of the ample liquidity.
Tom you talked about where you talked about there was obviously an increase in the net deployment I think net deployment today is $200 million I take it that the contributions following into the first quarter of next year which is about $400 million or 50% share would effectively take care of that.
But then I guess how should we think about the increase in the fund which is gross capital equity plus your share debt about $480 million how should we think about your desire to deploy and it’s actually increased funding where you’re going to get that liquidity from with the goal of continuing to improve the balance sheet? Going forward as you said when you look at the match funding for 2014 it’s really in line because when you look at starts down translate into cash flow.
So from a cash flow perspective you talked about the net $200 million is actually much smaller it’s actually about the same from the net cash flow perspective.
And then we have contributions coming in the first quarter as well as an expected – expectation that we would see continued contributions stabilized – development stabilize and roll off.
So I think we can mostly self fund going forward at this stage and any incremental capital of longer term we’re going to finance in line or capitalized in line with our long-term goals which are mid to low 30%.
Yes.
The only thing I would add to what Tom just said is that we are going to obviously as we mentioned earlier in the year and we continued to want to take advantage of a good disposition environment for selling a little bit of remaining non-strategic assets that we have.
So we are stepping on the gas in the back half of this year and early next year to do that so.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of John Guinee with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Great.
Going out – looking at your Japanese REIT and your public vehicle in Mexico is it possible to understand how those entities are trading on an implied cap rate basis right now? I think that Japan number I haven’t looked at it in a while it’s in the high-3s and the Mexican REIT is in the mid to high-7s.
What I mean is that I have to listen to their calls too to figure that out… Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Spector with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Thanks guys.
It’s Jamie Feldman again.
So Tom I am wondering if you can just walk us through the changes – the change to guidance at the midpoint in terms of what were the main moving pieces.
And then as we think about FFO for next year how much of that is recurring and how much of that is more one-time in 2014? Okay.
The $0.05 bump was primarily deployment net deployment some outperformance from the first half as well as stronger our share of operations and interest savings that would make up the S$0.05.
What I see from a year-over-year run rate basis I don’t see any of those being non-recurring.
We obviously had a large promote in the second quarter.
And we believe that we are going to see promote levels pretty consistent if not better than we have seen in the last two years going forward.
At this point in cycle we feel very good about our promotes that we are going to be earning over the next three to five years.
So I don’t see anything that’s in our results either year-to-date or in our forecast that are meaningful at all from a non-recurring standpoint.
Yes.
And the only thing I would add to that is that if you go back and look at our investor presentation from last September we had laid out some numbers for you that took into account sort of the rental picture and its growth.
And as I mentioned earlier in response to your question we are on track or maybe a little bit better than that.
So basically if you look at that forecast and say if you are going to redo that forecast how would you change it I would say on the rental side we are pretty even.
We have done a better job on managing our interest expense than before.
And I think we have done a better job on G&amp;A.
And I think on both of those we are way ahead of the plan.
So I would say those numbers are pretty good with an arrow up on them directionally.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Your line is open.
Just last question just on the promotes and Tom you just touched on this next year you have the opportunity to earn for the funds to promote it’s about 35% of the assets in funds or in listed companies almost about 55% of your equity committed to those can you give us at least based on where the NAVs are today what that gross number promote potentially could be for ‘15 as we think about the FFO impact? That would not be a good idea.
First of all we don’t really know with any precision and secondly values can change around and it depends not only on the value that we think but the value that the appraisers thing etcetera etcetera.
But let me go back to something that I have mentioned to you over the years.
I think our gross promotes is on the order of 25 basis points of third-party assets under management across the cycle.
It will be lumpy but that’s about what it works out to be across a normal cycle in terms of magnitude.
Now from that you need to net out some things and get to a net number that hits the books.
But so if you are going to use a number I would use maybe 15 basis points to get to the net number.
Michael when you look across the last two years we have put up $0.04 in ’13.
We just put up $0.15 promote in ’14 I don’t think those numbers are out of line when you look at the next 3 to 5 years.
I am sorry $0.04 in ‘13 $0.05 in ‘14.
Yes which by the way $0.05 is $25 million and if you look at our third-party assets under management at about $20 billion it gets to that mid-teen ‘15 net number that I mentioned to you.
It is a little bit lower than that.
But that’s not a bad number for sort of a recurring kind of flow adjusting the lumpiness.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Frankel with Green Street Advisors.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Tom can you just go through the debt repurchases and just explain what exactly you mean by purchasing everything on a MPV basis that’s meaningless or not meaningless or have no economic cost? Thanks.
Yes.
So when you look at so what we analyzed the economics of retiring debt early we MPV that interest expense the reaming interest expense on that debt and we discounted back at our cost of capital our cost of debt for that remaining term.
And if that MPV is within 1% of the balance of that debt we believe that’s a good economic deal because less than 1% is a pretty de minimus amount to pay for the viability to lock in long-term rates.
So another way to look at it is if we could take that 1% delta and just amortize that over the remaining life of the debt we think that would be maybe 10 bps a year.
So it’s a very de minimus and we think that’s a very inexpensive price to pay to lock in today’s long-term rates.
I mean in the last 12 months we have locked in 10-12 year debt albeit euro but we had the ability to issue it at sub-3%.
We will do that all day long.
And we will continue to look at ways to do that although that pool is diminishing rapidly but we think it makes a lot of sense to do that.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Just a couple of quick follow-ups here.
What is the average contractual rent step up in your entire portfolio.
And second part your cash same store NOI growth has been outpacing your GAAP is that just truly because more than normal burn off of rent and should that be closer going forward? Yes.
Ki Bin this is Tom.
So from a contractual bumps globally about 80% of our leases have contractual bumps on revenue of I would say approximately 2.5%.
So again that’s on revenue not on NOI.
And the rest of our leases that don’t have contractual bumps typically have some sort of an indexation.
So it’s like a CPI inflator.
So you can’t straight line it but it does give you a bump every year.
Your other question really is when will yes cash NOI is outstripping GAAP today because of largely because of concession burn off and other basically concession burn off.
Those two are going to converge over time over long period of time.
They should be identical.
I would expect they would converge and get very close to each other sometime in the back half of ‘15 early ‘16.
Okay.
Great that being the last question I just wanted to thank you for participating in this quarter’s call.
And look forward to seeing you at the next call if not before.
Bye-bye.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Ryan and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Prologis Third Quarter Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute in order to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn our call over to Ms.
Tracy Ward Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Ryan and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our third quarter conference call.
The supplemental document is available on our website at prologis.com under Investor Relations.
This morning we will hear from Hamid Moghadam our Chairman and CEO who will comment on the company’s strategy and the market environment; and then from Tom Olinger our CFO who will cover results and guidance.
Also joining us for today’s call are Gary Anderson; Mike Curless; Ed Nekritz; Gene Reilly; and Diana Scott.
Before we begin our prepared remarks I’d like to state this call will contain forward-looking statements under federal securities laws.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates and projections about the market and the industry in which Prologis operates as well as management’s beliefs and assumptions.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and actual operating results maybe affected by a variety of factors.
For a list of those factors please refer to the forward-looking statement notice in our 10-K or SEC filing.
Additionally our third quarter results press release and supplemental do contain financial measures such as FFO and EBITDA that are non-GAAP measures and in accordance with Reg G we have provided a reconciliation to those measures.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Hamid and we’ll get started.
Thanks Tracy and good morning everyone.
It's only been a month since our last Investor event so I’ll keep my comments brief.
Our focus today is on real-time market conditions the company's growth objectives and our results.
Let me start with a few observations about the operating environment.
Despite cautious macroeconomic headlines our global markets continue to benefit from decent demand with occupancy and rents rising.
In the U.S.
net absorption is running at nearly doubled the pace of completion and vacancies are near all-time lows in many markets.
There are however a few markets where supply has caught up and vacancies will be trending higher in the next year such as Indi Houston and Dallas.
The transaction market remains very competitive and there is significant capital chasing quality product.
As is often the case the private markets are ahead of the public markets and maybe themselves pushing cap rates to historic lows.
We now see stabilized cap rates below 5% in a growing number of our global markets.
Turning to Europe on the operating side of the business demand is improving despite ongoing macroeconomic uncertainty.
Northern Europe and U.K.
are leading the recovery with higher occupancy levels and the ability to push rents.
Although we begun to see markets recovery in parts of Southern Central and Eastern Europe it will take time for rental growth to materialized in those regions.
Investor demand for industrial real estate is robust as capital continues to flow into Europe.
These inflows are compressing cap rates creating an additional headwind for market rent growth.
On the deployment side the key is to be nimble in this changing landscape.
We believe the window for portfolio acquisitions is closing quickly and as a result our focus will turn towards one-off deals where we can add the most value.
Having a team underground with the ability to source investments provides us with a competitive advantage.
As opportunities to acquire discount to replacement costs dissipate.
Development will become a larger part of our overall development activity.
In Brazil and China operating performance is better than the headlines.
Despite downward revisions of forecasted GDP in Brazil demand for Class A logistics space exceeds supply.
And in Japan and Mexico we continue to experience strong market conditions.
In Mexico for example demand has improved in border markets due an increase in near shoring activity.
Let me now turn to some specifics about our results.
The third quarter was good with momentum across our business lines.
Our results were led by operations.
Occupancy reached 95% with rent change on rollovers increasing at just under 10% and we have now seen seven consecutive quarters of positive rent change on rollovers.
Given current asset pricing we are placing a greater focus on non-core dispositions in the U.S.
Looking to value creation this is a good time to be in the development business as long as you an attractive land bank.
Margins and stabilizations are still well above average and we have a good pipeline of proposals in Brazil.
On the strategic capital side we have a healthy investment queue with strong inputs for all our offerings.
Year-to-date we have raised more than $1.4 billion of third-party capital.
To sum it all up our strategy is simple and we have meaningful embedded earnings potential from harvesting the gap between our in-place rents and market rents and through the build-out of our land bank and assets which is undervalued on our books by about 20%.
Our financial position is solid.
We have ample liquidity and well-lathered debts back and we are hedged against foreign currency fluctuations.
As always we will be patience and disciplined in our approach to the business.
With that I’ll turn it over to Tom to discuss results and guidance.
Thank you Hamid.
I’ll start with our results for the third quarter.
Core FFO was $0.48 per share leasing volume for the operating portfolio was 37 million square feet an increase of 8 million square feet over Q2.
Quarter end occupancy was 95% up 40 basis points from the second quarter and 110 basis points year-over-year.
The sequential increase in occupancy was driven by Europe and spaces under 100 000 square feet.
GAAP rent change on rollover was 9.7% positive across all regions and led by the U.S.
at 15.5%.
Cash rent change on rollover was positive 1.6%.
GAAP same-store NOI on an owned and managed basis increased 3.7%.
The main driver of the growth was a 2.9% increase in revenues with consisted of an increase in average occupancy of 120 basis points rent growth of 150 basis points is almost 26% of our leases in the same-store pool rolled in the prior four quarters at an average rental increase of 5.8% and about 30 basis points from indexation.
As we discussed at our Investor event last month the majority of our share of NOI is from the U.S.
due to the fact that 6% of our portfolio is located here and we hold almost all of our foreign operating assets and ventures.
GAAP same-store NOI on our share basis in the third quarter was about 4% driven by the U.S.
with growth of 6.3%.
On an adjusted cash basis owned and managed same-store NOI grew 4%.
Turning to capital deployment during the third quarter development stabilizations were $223 million with an estimated margin of 26% well above our long-term expected margins.
We generated $57 million of our share value creation an $0.11 -- or $0.11 per share.
Development starts totaled $698 million with an estimated margin of 19%.
We acquired 884 million of buildings with 367 million our share at a weighted average stabilized cap rate of 6.1% primarily through our co-investment ventures in Europe.
Contributions and dispositions totaled $802 million with our share of $728 million at a weighted average stabilized cap rate of 6%.
We invested $357 million in our North American Industrial Fund increasing our ownership interest to 63% at September 30th.
Subsequent to quarter end we increased our ownership to 66% and we will begin consolidating this venture in the fourth quarter.
Turning to strategic capital.
Revenues were $54 million in the quarter with 93% of our asset management fees now coming from perpetual or long life ventures.
We raised $500 million of third-party capital for our China Logistics Venture in the quarter and year-to-date we've raised $1.4 billion for our strategic capital vehicles.
Switching gears to capital markets we redeemed $581 million to bonds and secured debt during the third quarter.
Subsequent to quarter end we issued €600 million bond with an annual coupon rate of 1.3% and due in 2020.
The majority of the proceeds from this offering were used to match fund our euro asset growth.
As we've done over the past year we’ll look to take advantage of the current interest rate environment to enhance our debt stack.
At the end of the third quarter our U.S.
dollar net equity set at 89% doubled the level at the time of the merger and essentially at our long-term goal of 90%.
We've been very diligent on this front in order to be well prepared for a meaningful move in foreign currencies like we witnessed this quarter.
As a result we’ve significantly mitigated these impact of FX movements on our earnings and more importantly on NAV.
From a sensitivity standpoint if all foreign currencies moved against the U.S.
dollar by 5% NAV would move less than $0.25.
From an earnings perspective with the same 5% currency move core FFO would be impacted on an annual basis by less than $0.03.
Moving to 2014 guidance we’re increasing our year-end occupancy range to between 95.5% to 96%.
We’re narrowing the range and increasing the midpoint for owned and managed GAAP same-store NOI growth to between 3.5% to 3.7%.
On net G&amp;A we expect the full year to range between $240 million and $244 million.
For capital deployment we’re narrowing the range and development starts to between $2 billion and $2.2 billion.
We’re increasing the range on building acquisitions to $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion.
Note that this relates to third-party building acquisitions only and excludes our investment in NAIF.
We’re maintaining our contribution guidance of $1.6 billion to $1.8 billion and for dispositions we’re increasing the range to $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion.
For strategic capital we expect revenue to range between $215 million and $220 million.
Putting this all together we’re narrowing our full year core FFO range to $1.85 to $1.86 per share which is at high end of our previous guidance.
This represents an increase of $0.015 at the midpoint and year-over-year growth in core FFO of over 12% and full year core AFFO growth of over 20%.
In closing we had another solid quarter.
And I'm pleased with the progress we've made to enhance our financial flexibility.
Looking ahead despite an uneven macroeconomic environment we’re well-positioned to continue to grow as we begin rolling our lowest rents to market stabilize more developments and put our land bank to work.
With that I’ll turn it to the operator to open up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum from UBS.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hamid you opened the call with some comments about supply having caught up in a few markets.
I'm curious when I look at the CBRE data for the third quarter it showed 60 million square feet of demand in the U.S.
or net absorption against 30 million square feet of deliveries which obviously implies that demand is still exceeding supply in most markets.
Which of your MSAs are you seeing with the greatest disparity between where demand is and supply on the positive side? I guess in terms of surprise the inland empire has had very strong absorption.
We were a little worried about that market I think the last time we talked.
And we were surprised by the upside and absorption.
But in terms of actual gap for the quarter -- I don’t carry those details in my head.
I would say that three that stand out the other way are the three that we mentioned.
But most of the markets have the deficit and some have a pretty significant deficit.
Gene do you know -- can you give Ross more color on the individual market? Yeah Ross.
I mean there is -- there is certainly a few markets in the U.S.
where you’ve set a dramatic balances.
And why don’t we follow-up with you on the details.
The way we look at this though is -- and we look at our own portfolios where our occupancy is at relative to that particular market.
And for the purpose of this call we focus more on where we’re concerned about oversupply.
And as we’ve mentioned there is a couple of spots where we see that.
But if you look at the aggregate numbers obviously we’re 2x demand versus supply.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of David Toti from Cantor Fitzgerald.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thanks.
Hamid I just -- I want to follow up on that first question and so broaden it a bit in terms of what does the company look for relative to the development landscape in terms of signals that would cause you to potentially pull back on volumes especially around spec obviously if supply levels are one but is your point where yield thresholds become problematic as well? Sure.
Let me -- I have the chart in front of me of this deficit.
So Cal has a pretty big deficit.
San Francisco Bay Area has a huge deficit.
And Seattle has flipped through a pretty big deficit.
Southern Florida which is Miami has a big deficit.
Above more Washington has a big deficit.
So those would be the markets in the -- at the moment with a run rate 12 months run rate of absorption is significantly higher than the delivery.
So that’s just to answer Ross’ question.
In terms of signals that we look at look these buildings are -- the good things about industrial business is and the bad thing about the industrial business is that these are small relatively small incremental investments.
We’re not building a million mass square foot office building that in two years we’ll find that whether the market is good or not.
We’re delivering the fifth or sixth building easily in a part.
The part is already full.
So it’s very incremental.
So we’re not genius.
If we put up a building and it takes too long to lease up we don’t put up the next one.
And we manage our exposure that way.
It maybe a little bit more sophisticated than that but not a whole lot more.
Your next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask about the dispositions and contributions.
I think you mentioned that you are looking to increase the level of non-core dispositions going forward.
If I look at what you guys put on Page 28 of the supplemental overall dispositions are I think around $800 million in the quarter average cap rate was 6% but it was kind of skewed by Japan which is low cap rate market and suggest that what you guys sold in the U.S.
is maybe at relatively high caps.
So how should we sort of think about the dispositions that are slated for the remainder of the year and next year and the cap rates or income loss that you are likely to get from what you sell? I would listen to our guidance because that will be baked into our guidance.
But generally you shouldn’t be surprised try that our dispositions are higher cap rate than our acquisitions in the equivalent markets because we’re selling the bottom 20% of our portfolio.
So that shouldn’t surprise you.
The fact that we’ve done better than that in the last two three years is because cap rates have compressed a lot so we sold stuff at a lot better cap rates than we thought we would but we're okay with that.
And that is actually baked into nay guidance we provide to you.
Again it’s a $50 billion company.
We can sort of spend our time talking about 200 000 square foot building here and there.
So we have to take a more aggregate view of it.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Burke from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Again Brad Burke your line is open.
Please check that your line is unmuted.
Just click off mute.
Thanks guys.
Good morning.
Wanted to ask about the rent spreads that you saw in the quarter clearly a nice improvement quarter-over-quarter looks like both in the U.S.
and outside the U.S.
I think it's fair to say that the overall macro sentiment outside the U.S.
did not improve in the third quarter.
So I was hoping you can comment on what you are hearing from your tenants overseas.
How you're thinking about the momentum in market rents either positive or negative from where you are now and what you are thinking about going forward? Okay.
So I’d say customers in Asia are still quite optimistic demand still exceeds supply certainly in Japan and China.
Our rent spreads in both those markets were quite wide this quarter in China are quite wide.
In Europe it's really more about consolidation.
The big themes for our customers who are 3 POS and e-commerce which really were driving.
Expansion was happy I would say and Gene will speak to this more in the U.S.
and Asia.
Not so much in Europe was really more about consolidation.
And in terms of the customers that were most active this quarter consumer goods were very active.
Pharma and others as well as the two that I think were driving and automotive I suppose as well.
All of those were up over the last quarter and above historical averages.
But again rent spreads in Europe pretty significant in the U.K.
and Northern Europe and not so in other parts.
Again we squeezed out slightly positive rent spreads this quarter in Europe as we are growing occupancy.
Yeah.
But I would add to what Gary said is that there are definitely some markets in Europe where rent spreads are negative.
I mean France would be one where you get under the 3/6/9 structure escalating rents.
And then when you get to the end of it you fall off.
Central and Eastern Europe we were renewing at below -- in some cases below in-place rents.
So it's -- sort of it’s a seesaw.
There is some positive some negative and I think it’s about even right now.
Right.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Frankel from Green Street Advisors.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Hey Tom can you explain the pretty big gap pretty big difference rather between cash and gap leasing spreads? Well we’ve talked historically that we would expect that spread to be 6% to 8% and it was right on 8% this quarter almost right on top of that.
So it is tracking exactly where we thought it was.
And as we talked about at the investor day if you think about the gap rents increasing by contractual rates at 2.5% to 3% a year and you look at a four or five year lease and you compare of you are going to take the midpoint of that net effective gap rent lease over lease and you are going to take the cash rent that's probably only going to grow call it 3% or 4% whatever that’s in a normal market.
So that’s how you get that 6% to 8% spread that we would expect.
Your next question comes from the line of Vance Edelson from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Terrific.
Thank you.
You mentioned the uneven microenvironment and even in the U.S.
the data points at times have been conflicting over the past quarter.
Is there anything you can share regarding the pace of your U.S.
leasing activity? Was demand generally improving during the quarter and would you say you're getting any type of holiday related lift from the consumer goods segment? Yeah it’s Gene.
I'll take that one.
Demand is definitely accelerating in the U.S.
It's a bit early in the third quarter to talk about holiday demand but we are seeing that right now.
But overall we're seeing very good broad-based demand.
We’ve talked in previous calls a lot about the housing business and that's a catalyst that we are looking to kick in.
And while housing starts have disappointed economists and probably all of us generally they are up over 15% year-over-year and we are seeing that come through primarily in small spaces.
Our small spaces under hundred 100 000 feet are up about 290 basis points year-over-year in terms of occupancy.
So that’s something I would highlight.
The overall numbers aren’t huge but that's driving demand.
But we are just really really optimistic and happy with the nature of the demand.
We don't have any weak markets.
We don't really have any week submarket and I would say we had some acceleration in demand through that quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman from Citi.
Your line is open.
Hi.
This is Kevin Varin with Michael.
As you think about the increased capital you’ve committed to acquisitions sequentially and then also when you add in the buy-in of the additional stake in the North American fund how are you thinking about funding that in order to stay leverage neutral? And then I guess are you comfortable moving up leverage or should we assume you will get more dispositions or will you seek to raise common equity either on the ATM or in issuant? This is Tom.
So from a standpoint of funding our growth right now -- today our line stands fully undrawn today.
We had a balance outstanding at the end of the quarter.
But we took that out when we did our Eurobond in early October.
So we are sitting on significant liquidity.
When we look at the first half of 2015 we see some pretty meaningful contributions that will be happening and some other dispositions.
So we feel really good about our ability to fund our incremental growth.
That being said going over the long haul we are going to run this business in the low-to-mid 3% LTV.
And as we have incremental growth we are going to have to fund that consistent with that long-term goal.
And if that means issuing equity of the ATM we will do that at the right time.
But not at a discount NAV.
Your next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Can you maybe drill down a little bit on Europe and on a forward-looking basis obviously you continued to see the escalation in occupancy and the traction there.
But there's some puts and takes in terms of by country.
Just expectation in terms of going forward what we should expect on the occupancy front there if that will offset potential roll downs that you may see? Yeah.
Sure.
As we’ve said over the last couple of quarters we are starting to see softer occupancy in Europe where we need to and are having difficulty pushing rents.
And that strategy I think has played out certainly this quarter as we are up 90 basis points and it’s been pretty broad-based.
If you look across our four regions Southern Europe is up 130 basis points U.K.
is up 90 CEF 80 and Northern Europe about 60.
So we are certainly been able to drive occupancy levels.
I’d say there have been some notable surprises.
The markets that have been lagging that continued to lag to a certain extent but we’ve got traction and now which is Hungary France and Italy.
I think that would have been a surprise to the upside.
In terms of being able to hold on to that occupancy I feel certainly good about that going into the fourth quarter.
You just need to look at our leased occupancy spreads and they are pretty significant and growing.
So I'm very confident that we are going to hold this occupancy into the fourth quarter and beyond.
Again the one thing that’s part of our control is the macroeconomic environment and that’s something that we are tracking but it’s something that we don’t control.
So we are highly focused on our own operations.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Feldman from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open Great.
Thank you.
So it looks like you took on high-end of your deployment service guidance slightly? Can you just talk a little bit about what drove that as it just stuff that will get pushed into next year or is there other some markets where you think it is time to stop developing and then how we should think about this heading into next year for start?  Jamie this is Mike Curless.
We’re at the stage of the air where all of our remaining projects are identified and so we have full visibility on what we expect to do by year end we are highly confident that the volume will see and the balance of the air will be at or above where we came through in the third quarter.
So nothing significant going on there whatsoever we are highly confident in terms of what we’ll see for the end of the year and into next year we are very confident about volume going into the first quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim from SunTrust.
Your line is open.
if I go back to your investor presentation it seems like 50 base points if assumed that comes from CPI indexation from Europe and another 50 basis points comes from amortization of lease intangibles? So my question is if European CPI remains zero which is -- what has been so far do you see any other levers that of growth that can come that to compensate for that? And also second question is on amortization of lease intangibles? I wouldn’t think that will be a negative not a positive adjustment to your GAAP rent change? Just curious if you could just help me understand why that contributes to 50 base points of growth? Hi Ki Bin it’s Tom.
So two -- a couple of things on same-store growth next year I think there is opportunities from an OpEx standpoint that we could see -- we should see our revenue growth exceed that of our OpEx I would expect that which certainly helps NOI growth.
I would -- I think there is -- we’ve talked about occupancy -- average occupancy increase for next year and that illustration not guidance of 50 basis points.
I think as I see things today and where occupancy is we could that could be better than 50 basis points next year.
And then on your second question regarding the lease intangibles that works both ways so a lease intangible when you have a purchase accounting event or an acquisition you mark those leases to market either above or below market and when those leases happen to be above market you might be giving cash rents of $5 and market might be $450.
So GAAP says okay that $0.50 delta you need to take that even though you are giving cash in the bank you have to reduce that from your revenues.
So that’s what’s happening with that amortization.
It was just the timing of when that intangible was set up.
It was set up in the downturn.
Yeah.
Let me add one more thing and draw your attention to Page 22 of the supplemental.
So we have new disclosure on what our rolling leases look like in the next couple of years.
So without getting into detail I mean if you do some quick math around where our rent changes today and what is expiring in the future I think that will help you dealt with the rent growth side of the equation.
And the other thing I would add to it the one thing we can really debate around here is how much rents are going to grow.
But I can tell you in the Americas at least if you look at our occupancy levels if you look at the market occupancy levels means six of our global markets are at all time occupancy highs 10 of our largest markets are 97% leased better.
I can't think of a better environment for pushing rents.
Now that’s going to change over a long period of time based on supply.
But if I think about what’s our potential for rent growth and then look at what’s rolling I think its acts are pretty good.
But Page 22 should be helpful with that.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Hi everyone.
I just wanted to go back to the housing starts and some of the traction you are seeing on the smaller side of things.
Just curious I mean if starts continue to slow just curious what level will you start to get a little bit worried about some of the housing related demand and maybe some of the demand you are seeing for the under 1 00 000 square feet tenants?  Yeah.
As I said earlier right now it’s kind of on fire.
And the other thing we haven't talked about is what is our rent growth potential.
And I think if you looked at some call scripts from a year ago or two years ago that segment rents absolutely plummeted.
But replacement cost is really high in that segment.
So our rent change in the last quarter for smaller spaces was 15.5% in the Americas so a big rent change along with occupancy pick up.
Getting back to your question it isn’t as if we’ve seen a huge demand from the housing sector.
I’m just playing out that starts year-over-year were actually are up.
So if we still are sort of more amount than a million units a year I don’t think it’s going to impact demand in that segment.
If it goes to 500 000 units back to where it was in 2009 then we probably have some issues.
But we don't really think that's likely to happen.
In fact we think it will pick up marginally from a million units a year.
Your next question comes from the line of Gabriel Hilmoe from ISI Group.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Tom just going back to the gap rents spreads and looking at the fourth quarter what’s being baked into the fourth quarter with guidance? And then I guess can you just give a sense of the geographic mix of leases rolling in ‘15? Okay.
So as far as what our guidance for same-store implies for Q4 it’s really right in the range.
I think year-to-date our same-store growth is around -- on a gap our owned and basis is about 3.5% so we were expecting Q4 to range between 3.5% and 3.7%.
When we look at mix going into 2015 versus ’14 I think three regions standout.
The first would be the Central Region in the U.S.
That has had a disproportionate amount of leasing in 2014.
It would be our lowest lengths of all -- any of our regions in the Americas because of where it’s located.
And then the other two regions would be Southern Europe which is France primarily in Central and Eastern Europe highlighting Poland and consistent with what I said at our investor day.
We had a higher role in those two markets than we normally have and that normalizes in 2015.
So as Gene said when we look at rents rolling next year and where they are rolling we feel really good about our rent growth because we’re putting up 9.7% today.
And on an apples-and-apples basis when you look at mix where we are signing leases today and where we are rolling leases next year we certainly expect that rent change to accelerate just based on where rents are today.
That’s not predicated on any significant rent growth to hit higher rent change numbers next year.
Your next question comes from Dave Rodgers from Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good morning.
Maybe for Hamid and for Gary obviously pace of acquisitions in Europe accelerated and it continues to do so which is good to see.
At a fixed cap rate or just over a 6% cap rate in Europe and say a 5% or so in the U.S.
plus or minus I guess what point does that rent growth in Europe really kind of kick in to get to the point where your returns are equivalent? I guess what’s your forecast for rent growth in Europe that makes a 6% there and look as good as maybe a 5% here given the robust commentary on this call over the last couple of quarters about just outsize rent growth in the U.S?  I think 6% cap rate would be not an accurate reflection of the opportunity in Europe.
I think you will see a pretty heavy dose of U.K in that.
London Specifically London Specifically and London is probably got higher rent growth than the U.S.
So if you look at Continental Europe I think cap rates are more in the 6.5% to as much as 7.25% range.
And on equivalent quality of market that’s about a 200 basis points premium to the same markets in the U.S.
because in the very best markets in the U.S.
you are in the high 4s.
And while in the short-term rental growth in the U.S is much better than it is in Europe.
We think that discount to replacement cost in Europe will drive rents in the long-term.
More -- I think more of the U.S.
rental growth market rental growth not in our portfolio because there is a lag but market rental growth has already taken place.
We think we’re actually probably 80% plus into the gap between spot market rents and replacement cost rents closing the gap we talked about three years ago in our Investor Day.
So the rest of the way from here is the last 20% plus any inflationary growth we may get in the U.S.
In Europe we’re early in that gap closing and actually the compressing cap rates are delaying and extending that rental recovery because you can build a new product with lower rents in a defining cap rate environment.
So anyway to summarize it all put the U.K aside.
We’re really deploying capital in Europe in the high 6% as well as 7% call it mid 6s to low 7.
And we think that’s a pretty healthy premium in growth.
In other ways when you combine that with lower growth we think that still gets you better total returns than the U.S going forward.
Still huge discount to replacements cost… Yeah.
… especially what Hamid was saying and you don’t have supply coming on to the market today.
Right.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Hi.
Just going back to dispositions and if you look out to the next couple of years 2015 ‘16 are the numbers you’re talking about increasing the pace to significantly different than what you’re doing now in 2014? No.
I think we -- you’re going to see our disposition activity really moderate.
As we’ve been working hard since the merger we’ve really worked down our other markets.
Our regional markets are getting close to 10% our long-term target.
And we’ll see a mix we’ll probably see more dispositions coming out of Europe in the next year or two and less in the U.S.
and that’s just timing of where we see the markets.
Yeah.
Just to be clear on reconcile those two comments.
We are going to sell more of everywhere particularly the U.S.
sooner than we would have otherwise.
But we’re actually running out of non-strategic things to sell.
So where you think kind of to the end of that portfolio cleanup process but whatever is left is going to -- we’re going to keep on doing it.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Lesnick from Capital One Securities.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
With regard to the land acquisitions you made during the quarter? Are you guys taking more of a just in time inventory approach there or you more just opportunistically banking it for the right time? This is Mike.
Our land size is exactly what we’ve laid out over the last couple of year.
A long-term target for land banks still remains at a $1.5 billion and we tend to get there over the next couple of years which it give us a two-year supply as we said for the development pipeline going forward.
But as you look at the next couple of quarters we’re going to continue to restock in strategic and selective locations in global markets like U.K.
Brazil Tokyo and the Bay Area.
So we can get ready for the development volumes we expect in 2015 and ‘16.
And then later in the year you’re going to see our monetization kick in from development and we’ll continue our strong progress of selling non-strategic sites.
So at the end of the day you’re going to see our land bank go directionally that $1.5 billion target.
Not going to happen a straight line but we’re making good progress there.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Just give me your comments about mix changes in the higher relative U.S.
exposure.
Do you have the releasing spreads for the quarter at a proportionate basis? And then as we think about ’15 and ’16 you referenced page 22 there where you provide the expiry rents? Can you quantify how that -- how those in-place rents today compared to market kind of what’s the mark-to-market in-place today? Hi.
This is Tom.
So don’t have the proportionate numbers on hand but if you think about just our share of the NOI as in the Americas and U.S.
is about 72% to 73% Europe 23% Asia is the rest.
That’s the allocation you want to do for that.
And then regarding where market rents are again I’ll let Gene weigh in if he wants.
But when you look at on an apples-and-apples basis we did wrenching to almost 10% this quarter and from on a mixed basis of what’s rolling next year we have a lower net effective rents next year than what’s rolling this year absent any rent growth.
And we would expect with today's rents to roll to have higher rent change next year than this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Manaker from Oppenheimer.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Can you talk to me about why the tax went negative this quarter? Thanks Tom.
Yeah.
So we had a deferred tax liability of about $30 million and it related to built-in gain on an acquisition from a very long time ago and the statutes on that rent and we release that liability.
Now that did not affect core FFO in anyway.
We don't take the benefit of any deferred tax benefits in our core FFO.
So that was just a release of a liability that we had to put on our books at the time of the acquisition.
Contingent.
And we wrote it off as a non-cash event.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee from Stifel.
Your line is open.
Close John Guinee here.
Hey they’re getting better.
You should hear what they call me.
Just a quick and simple question too tired now.
Seems to me about this time last year you raised your dividend 18% and I can't remember if that was to an elective dividend increase or a cash driven dividend increase.
Can you refresh our memories as to why the dividend got raised to 18% around this time last year and what’s your thought process is currently for this year? So John our AFFO for this year is going to go up more than 20% which is why we raised our dividend to 18%.
From a tax perspective if you look at our core AFFO payout ratio which as you know does not include any development activity; our core payout ratio is going to be around 92% -- 91% or 92% in 2014.
But taxable when we monetize our developments that’s taxable events and when you look at our development gains for the year we will be paying out something in the range of about 75% AFFO in 2014.
So from a tax perspective yes we do need to continue to increase our dividends when you look at the amount of the development value creations that we are recognizing and is being taxed.
Yeah.
The FADs do count those as real gains and real money.
And if we couldn’t count it straight this kind of thing we’d be in really good shape.
Okay.
To be accurate the dividend increase was in February of this year.
Might have said last year I’m sorry.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Hamid and Gene I had a follow-up on some comments you made earlier in the call.
Hamid you mentioned that you felt like 80% of the disparity between market rents and replacement cost rents have been realized in the U.S.
at this point of time which I think going back to your ‘12 or ‘13 investor day you guys thought sort of 25% kind of rent growth was required to kind of get margin rents up to replacement cost rents.
So 80% has been realized that’s kind of 20% out of the 25%.
How does that -- which would suggest maybe 5% kind of excess market rent growth beyond inflation? But Gene if I heard your comments earlier it sounds like you think you probably can push rents more than 5% given where occupancy levels are and the fundamentals in your market so just wondering if you can kind of reconcile those two comments? Yeah.
Let me answer first and Hamid can say as you ask.
But yeah I do believe that and there is two reasons for it.
One replacements costs continued to move and in the U.S.
they are not moving rapidly right now other than land but land has gone up very quickly.
And I think you’ll see an acceleration in replacement costs.
So that dynamic continues to play into the equation.
But otherwise we will get to a point where we will be able to push rents beyond replacement costs for some period of time that’s not going to be a long period of time.
But if you are in a supply and demand situation where there is basically no vacant space you are going to able to push rents.
So we have to be careful that’s temporary because ultimately supply will come on but for some period of time that will be true absolutely.
Yeah.
Let me just clarify.
I think there are actually three components through rental increases that we talked about three years ago.
And by the way thank you for remembering that because when -- at the time we came out with that forecast most people thought we are crazy.
And we are actually low in retrospect but the first is just climbing out of the hole just getting back what we lost during the down turn which I called the bounce back.
The second is replacement cost accelerating beyond inflation because the contractors will start wanting to get their margins back when prices will go up and all that.
And the third is getting on the normal equilibrium inflationary track for rental growth.
My comment was that I think we’re 80% may be the more off the bounce back from the hole we fell in.
We still have the above inflation replacement cost growth because while the land portion is kicked in the construction portion is about to kick in.
I mean we’re getting we’re seeing some high construction pricing in some markets.
So I think that will prepare our rents for a while and then we’ll get on the normal inflationary track.
And Gene is absolutely right we’re going to over shoot it for some time and then it’s going to come back down to the trend line.
So I am not saying the rent growth is ending but here is what I am saying let me go on he record and tell you what I really think about this.
I think people are way too excited about the long-term rental growth picture in the U.S.
Yes you’ve heard it from Hamid.
Rents in the U.S.
will not go up 6% 7% forever which is why some of these people are paying ridicules cap rates that they are assuming their performance not going to happen.
It may happen for couple of years but its going to revert down to more of an inflationary growth number.
On the other hand I think every body has written off Europe as a dead continent and its never going to happen again.
I think they are wrong.
I think where we are in the U.S.
two may be two and a half years ago and their parts of Europe that we are going to have have already had U.K.
fabulous rental growth and occupancy growth.
And I think if you look at where rents are going in the cap rates you are seeing there have been some terrific bargains in Europe over the last 10 or 12 months may be two years that people have overlooked.
And I think those opportunities are going away quickly.
They are getting snapped up pretty quickly.
So I think people are too optimistic about the U.S.
in the long term and too pessimist speaking about the Europe in long term.
Time will tell whether that statement is correct or not.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Frankel from Green Street Advisors.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Can you just go into little more detail regarding the National Industrial Funding where you had decided to further consolidate the portfolio? What’s the game plan there? Are you not earning FTEs there? Do you plan to eventually introduce new investors to the fund or what exactly is happening? Well as -- you know after the merger we have two open end funds in the U.S.
We had USLV which was the old -- excuse me USLF which is the old and the open-end fund which is actually a true open-end fund.
It goes out and raises capital every quarter.
It can redeem investors who want to leave.
It can bring in new investors.
It can make new investments.
It’s a living breathing dynamic open end fund like an open end fund is supposed to be.
The old NAIF fund was a really a club deal with a couple of big investors one really big investors and couple of more smaller investors.
And it really didn’t have the right governance because the smaller investors didn’t have liquidity the investors could decide whether we could raise money in the fund or not raise money in the fund.
It hadn’t acquired any thing in the couple of years because it couldn’t.
So it kind of missed the opportunity to take the advantage of the investments opportunities that were available in the market place.
It was really an ill-conceived vehicle.
So our strategy is very simple.
We want to have few competing vehicles in any given region.
We want to minimize the number of competing vehicles and between the two this seem to be the one that needed to be rationalized.
And some of the investors in it wanted liquidity and some of them didn’t.
So we accommodated the ones that wanted liquidity and we are happy owning the real state.
We know it well.
We’d like the real state.
We don’t mind having our money invested in it.
And once we can do something about it and we control it if that day ever comes we’ll do something in terms of recapitalizing it.
Meanwhile we are happy holding on to it and just basically to static fun that we will operate for the foreseeable future.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman from Citi.
Your line is open.
Again Michael your line is open.
Please check that your phone is unmated.
Apologies.
Good morning.
Haven’t done that in a little while.
Michael we didn’t think you’d ever be that quiet.
You cannot nor could I.
I wanted to came back to your comment about not showing equity below NAV because the opposite obviously you have the ability to do which is to buy your stock at a discounted NAV if you believe its there.
I sort of view that if you think about the buying of NAIF into assets you now manage you can take that up the scale and buy into a company that you know extraordinarily well that has a lot of other growth drivers outside of this pure assets.
In terms of the asset management business the development business and Tom talked all about the liquidity that the company is generating and will generate in next year through some of dispositions and you have a lot of choices to put that liquidity.
And you obviously made the choice to invest onto NAIF which is as almost $500 million of equity commitment but $1.1 billion of total enterprise value with your share of the debt coming on.
It’s just a lot of capital.
I’m just wondering how you weigh buying into that versus buying your stock which would have the same certain implications in terms of capital commitment?  Excellent question.
We did look at that and by the way every time Gene comes to me and say what are we buying more more of something in the U.S.
I tell him we are only more of everything.
We think it’s a better deal.
Our conclusion was that actually buying into NAIF was a more attractive return on invested capital than buying our stock.
I think a stock buyback has a couple of components an important signaling component and an investment decision.
I don’t think it’s purely an investment decision.
We unlike your clients are not in the business of buying and selling our stock everyday.
So somewhat of the permanent directional choice and it’s got to be a pretty significant discount there is a discount.
We’re pretty -- we are not shy about telling people what we think our NAV is.
We think it’s in the range of $43 with no value attributed to the development business.
So -- and people may argue that it’s $42 and we can have that debate but it’s in that range.
This was a pretty attractive yield on invested capital.
And I think by buying our company we would have a higher mix of everything that we invest in Europe Japan everything.
This was a U.S.
investment.
So they’re not directly comparable yields.
And we thought -- we just thought this was a much better use of capital.
This is not as permanent decision as a share buyback either because this -- I think we’re going to end up doing something with this fund down the road in terms of recapitalizing it.
So in the mean time we’re happy to enjoy the yield and to be more invested in the U.S.
given the operating parameters here.
By the way we’re pretty active in Europe too as you saw in third-party acquisition so.
But stock buyback are really at the end of the day what we compare lot of our investment too.
And there is healthy debate that goes on that’s about that in the shot.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Feldman from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Again Jamie Feldman your line is open.
Please check that your phone is unmuted.
Thank you.
So going back to your comment on rent growth saying you think the market is little too excited about the long-term rent growth in the U.S.
when maybe not excited enough about Europe.
What you guys think there is still room for cap rate compression across your regions and where cap rates have probably bottomed out? Well let’s start with the statement that we’ve been wrong about cap rate compression in the last two years.
We thought that it wasn’t going to happen and it keeps happening certainly in the U.S.
I think there is a lot more cap rate compression that happen in Europe that’s for sure.
I think Japan cap rates are going to compress because the public market trades at a 150 basis point lower cap rate.
Sorry -- the public market trades with the 150 basis point lower cap rates than the private market.
And that’s the work of Japanese laws where you can't really contribute assets to a J-REIT at lower than in appraised NAV.
So there is this disconnect between public and private market.
And public markets value real estate much more expensively.
So those two areas I'm pretty sure about cap rates going down.
My bet is that cap rates that are stable are going up in the U.S.
when people realize that for instant growth 6% year forever.
But I've been wrong about that’s so let’s acknowledge that.
And I think Mexico is going to have lower cap rates.
Cap rates in Mexico are going to come down a little bit.
But the big trade -- I think the big insight is that I think cap rates are flat to up in the U.S.
and I think people are getting a little exuberant about industrial rules state pricing in the U.S.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman from Citi.
Your line is open.
So just a one quick one just on Page 18 of the supp the turnover cost Gene I don’t if you comment a little bit of that.
The trend line looks it’s going up up to 9.3% in this prior quarter.
And I would've thought the reverse.
I would thought that as your rent spreads are widening the value of the lease is going up.
And rents moving up that you actually have to spend less to get… Yes.
Spread.
As I am (indiscernible) there was something going on.
No.
I get it.
This quarter is interesting.
Every individual division actually dropped.
This is entirely mix.
So it’s more U.S.
deals which have a significantly higher turnover cost relative to others.
And off course releasing more small spaces and they’ve higher commissions in TIs.
But I would tell you Michael this has been pretty constant pretty flat.
I think it’s going to continue to look that way.
So this is really -- it’s really a mix issue in terms of where we did leasing.
Your last question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Just given the comments about non-core sales versus potential issues what percentage of the portfolios today which you consider kind of non-core is applicable for sales.
And then also given your comments about cap rates would you look to sell core assets just given the aggressive pricing in the expectation that cap rates may rise over the next 12 to 24 months? Sub 5% I would say non-core at this time.
And of course that definition changes overtime.
As market change in asset age and different things happen.
So I would -- but I would say we’re down to certainly well under 5% maybe maybe as low as 3%.
So it’s getting down there.
With respect to sale of assets that are core to our strategy we do sell lot of those two from time to time.
For example there are other parameters.
For example people pay a lot of money for long term net lease deals.
And we've been selling a lot of those because our view value and the markets view value are different.
So we would be authority to that sort of thing.
We have value added conversions in the Bay Area.
The Bay Area is on fire.
I mean people are buying our -- 30 40-year old buying the building or high rise office site at 4x the value that we ascribed to them and you had ascribe to them in your NAV.
We’ll sell those.
There are users opportunities that are not going to adore the guy is just got to have our building and it’s a strategic building.
So we will sell those.
But at market we’re not really a seller of normal good operating real estates because by the time you look at the cost of selling it the time to redeploy it we’d be really redeploy the money.
That said to be a 5% or 10% premium before you come out even.
And that’s -- the market is not quite that frosty yet.
But if we see a bigger spread than that off course we’re a seller.
We have no further question.
I think it was the last question.
Yeah.
So thank you for joining our call.
I know you’ve got a lot more to go to.
We kept this under an hour and look forward to talking to you next year.
Bye-bye.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Keith and I’ll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Prologis Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speaker’s remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Tracy Ward Senior Vice President Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thanks Keith and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our fourth quarter 2014 conference call.
The supplemental document is available on our website at prologis.com under Investor Relations.
This morning we will hear from Hamid Moghadam our Chairman and CEO who will comment on the company’s strategy and the market environment; and then from Tom Olinger our CFO who will cover results and guidance.
Also joining us for today’s call are Gary Anderson; Mike Curless; Ed Nekritz; Gene Reilly; and Diana Scott.
Before we begin our prepared remarks I’d like to state that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements under federal securities laws.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates and projections about the market and the industry in which Prologis operates as well as management’s beliefs and assumptions.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and actual operating results may be affected by a variety of factors.
For a list of those factors please refer to the forward-looking statement notice in our 10-K or SEC filing.
Additionally our fourth quarter results press release and supplemental do contain financial measures such as FFO and EBITDA that are non-GAAP measures and in accordance with Reg G we have provided a reconciliation to those measures.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Hamid and we’ll get started.
Thanks Tracy good morning everyone.
We had a terrific quarter to finish off an excellent year.
A year into our three year strategic plan which we presented to you back in September 2013 we are ahead on both earnings and deployment targets.
Our outperformance reflects the strength of our reposition portfolio which today is focused on the highest quality assets and the best markets around the globe.
Our earnings in 2014 exceeded the top end of our guidance driven by operations and capital deployment.
Let me take a few minutes to discuss the three key elements of our strategic plan.
Our first priority has been capitalized on the rental recovery.
The improvement in market fundamentals has been strong but somewhat uneven across regions.
It is well underway in the Americas Asia and certain parts of Europe at a pace ahead of our initial projections while Southern Central and Eastern Europe lag behind.
In the U.S.
net absorption in 2014 was right on our forecast double the rate of deliveries.
Our U.S.
occupancy outperformed the market by 320 basis points demand was broad based.
At year-end we were more than 98% occupied in many of our markets.
This occupancy combined with double-digit rent change on roll over resulted in same store NOI growth of more than 5% in the U.S.
and 3.7% of overall.
For 2015 we forecast deliveries of 165 million square feet against absorption of 225 million square feet leading to further increases in occupancies.
Moving to Europe despite the bifurcated recovery at 95% our occupancy in the region outperformed the market by 210 basis points.
As we forecasted cap rate compression has been a headwind on rent the growth in Europe.
What’s surprising is how far and how fast cap rates have dropped on the continent? While absorption and delivery information is hard to come by in Europe we estimate Class A absorption of 66 million square feet compared to new deliveries of 45 million square feet in 2014.
This drove market occupancy up by 150 basis points.
Looking forward market occupancies in Europe will continue to rise as the supplier remains constrained.
We see space utilization running at a high level forcing customers to leave more space to support their incremental growth just as they did in the U.S.
two years ago.
In Asia market conditions continue to be strong and pretty much on plan.
Our second priority has been to realize value from our land bank through development.
Last year we put $430 million of land to work in developments with an estimated overall profit margin of 20%.
These outside margins are driven by the low book value of our land which has a build out potential of about $11 billion of properties overtime.
Our third priority has been to leverage our scale to grow earnings.
Our global reach allows us to deploy capital where we see the highest risk-adjusted returns often ahead of the pack.
In the U.S.
where market conditions are strong and values are high we have been a net seller of non-strategic holdings.
Conversely in Europe our focus was on development where we acquired quality assets at significant discounts to replacement cost.
Timing here was critical as cap rates compressed throughout the year.
For perspective we took the proceeds from our dispositions and contributions at a weighted average cap rate of 6.2% and redeployed those proceeds into higher yielding assets at a weighted average cap rate of 6.8%.
The net result was a favorable spread of 60 basis points on investments.
As a result we are able to grow earnings and at the same time improve the quality of the portfolio.
Moving to strategic capital we continue to have a significant investor queue with steady interest across all our funds.
In 2014 we raised about $2.5 billion of third-party strategic capital.
What’s remarkable is that each of our funds has outperformed its respective benchmark for all time segments in the past five years.
To sum it all up we expect market conditions globally to improve from these healthy levels.
Our market leading position in Q series around the world gives us the ability to deploy capital profitably and we have the financial capacity to carry out our plan.
And as we’ve explained before we are well insulated from movements in foreign currency.
With that I’ll turn it over to Tom.
Thanks Hamid.
We had great results for the fourth quarter and full year.
Core FFO was $0.48 per share on the quarter and $1.88 in 2014 representing an increase of 14% year-over-year.
Leasing volume for the operating portfolio in the quarter was 33 million square feet.
Development leasing totaled 9 million square feet our highest level in seven years as we continue to see strong demand for new space.
Average term for leases signed in the quarter increased sequentially from 45 months to 60 months.
Quarter-end occupancy was 96.1% up 110 basis points from the third quarter.
The sequential increase was driven by Europe the Americas and spaces under 100 000 square feet.
GAAP rent change on rollover was 6.2% led by the U.S.
at 11.4%.
This metric may sling quarter-to-quarter based on the composition of rolling leases.
In 2015 we expect rent spreads to continue to increase and exceed 2014 levels.
Cash rent change on rollover was flat for the quarter.
GAAP same-store NOI on an owned and managed basis increased 4.1% in the quarter and 3.7% for the full year at the high-end of our prior 2014 guidance range.
GAAP same-store NOI on a share basis in the fourth quarter was 4.9% driven by the outperformance in the Americas which represents about 75% of our share of NOI.
Moving to capital deployment development stabilizations totaled $1.1 billion with $236 million our share value creation or $0.46 per share.
Development starts in 2014 totals $2 billion with an estimated margin of 20% indicating the book value of our land bank continues to be significantly undervalued.
We acquired $1.5 billion of buildings during the year was $659 million our share at a weighted average stabilized cap rate of 6.4%.
The majority of the acquisitions were through our co-investment ventures in Europe.
We invested $679 million in North American industrial fund at a 6.1% weighted average stabilized cap rate increasing our ownership to 66%; we begin consolidating this venture in our financial results this quarter.
Contributions and dispositions totaled $3.2 billion driven by non-strategic asset sales in the U.S.
and the formation of our U.S.
logistic venture.
Our share was $2.2 billion and was at a weighted average stabilized cap rate of 6.2%.
Looking at realized gains in 2014 we generated a $172 from development and $37 million VAC’s.
We measured the realized gains on VAC’s has the difference between the sales price and the value of the building based at on an industrial use.
Turing to capital markets we continue to exploit the low interest rate environment while maintaining significant liquidity.
In the fourth quarter we issued a €600 million euro bond and raised a total of $356 million in equity with $214 million through the exercise of warrants related to the formation of our ELP venture back in 2012 and an [indiscernible] issued through our ATM program.
Our debt metrics and liquidity strengthen this quarter as leverage declined to 36.5% debt to adjusted EBITDA fell to 6.8 times and liquidity increased to $3.4.
Another indication of the strengthening of our balance sheet is the significant amount of nominal fixed charge coverage.
On a run-rate basis we’re generating over $1 billion of excess EBITDA over fixed charges annually our excess coverage is continue to grow in 2015 given expected leverage levels and pace of EBITDA growth.
So we’ve discussed before we’ve taken significant steps to minimize our foreign currency exposure on both NAV and earnings.
With our U.S.
dollar net equity at 89% we’ve effectively insulated our balance sheet in operations from movements in foreign currency.
Europe comprises about 7% of our non-U.S.
dollar net equity with sterling representing the majority of this exposure.
We’ve minimized our Euro net equity exposure by naturally hedging with Euro denominated debt which has the added benefit of very low borrowing costs.
We currently have $3.8 billion Euro debt with an average interest rate of 2.6% and a term of over seven-years.
While we have continued to see the U.S.
dollar strengthen over the past quarter the impact on Core FFO from the decline in the Euro and the Yen in the quarter was less than $0.01.
The bottom line is we virtually eliminated the risk of FX movements significantly impacting our NAV and earnings.
Let’s turn to 2015 guidance.
For operations we expect our year-end occupancy to range between 95.5% and 96.5%.
We expect to stabilize $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion of developments an increase of $700 million at the mid-point over 2014.
We are forecasting that the increase in NOI from development stabilizations will be the largest driver of our 2015 Core FFO growth.
The higher volume and stabilizations will contribute about $0.14 a share to 2015 Core FFO.
Looking forward stabilizations will continue to be a significant driver of NOI growth given projected starts of approximately $2.5 billion in 2015.
GAAP same store NOI on an owned and managed basis is expected to grow between 3.5% and 4.5%.
As you know it is our share of same store NOI that impacts earnings we expect our share for same store growth in 2015 to be 5 200 basis points higher than owned and managed.
As I mentioned earlier this is driven by the higher performance and our higher ownership of the Americas relative to Europe and Asia.
Our share same store NOI growth will contribute about $0.13 a share to 2015 Core FFO.
Our net G&amp;A we expect the full year to range between $238 million and $248 million.
We forecast the whole G&amp;A flat despite a planned increase in AUM.
On the capital deployment front we are seeking an increase - we are seeing an increasing volume of profitable development opportunities in 2015 and expect starts to range between $2.3 billion and $2.6 billion.
Our well located land bank and global customer relationships are driving increase build issues activity which we expect to account for about one-third of our starts in 2015.
On the specular [ph] development front we are largely building in our existing [indiscernible] master parks.
The average occupancy in the markets where we expect to start and stabilize back this year is about 97%.
While acquisitions are always hard to forecast we are estimating building acquisitions to range between $1 billion and $1.5 billion.
We expect dispositions to increase from 2014 and range between $1.5 billion and $2 billion with activity coming from the Americas Europe and value-add conversions in the U.S.
Contributions to our co-investment ventures will be driven by development stabilizations and are expected to range between $1.3 billion and $1.8 billion.
We expect to realize development gains of between $200 million and $250 million in 2015.
Putting this all together our share of net deployment is about $600 million.
For strategic capital we expect revenue to range between $210 million and $220 million which includes an expected net promote from our PELP venture in the fourth quarter of 2015 of between $0.03 and $0.04 which is in line with the net promotes we’ve earned in 2014.
Now putting all of our guidance together we expect 2015 Core FFO to range between $2.04 and $2.12 per share.
This represents year-over-year growth of 11% or an increase of $0.20 at the midpoint of our guidance.
The year-over-year growth is primarily driven by development stabilizations in our share of same-store NOI and reflects dilution of about $0.08 a share driven by the timing of dispositions and increased level of deployment during the year.
From an FX perspective we’ve hedged the majority of our affiliated 2015 Euro and Yen net earnings effectively insulating 2015 results from any FX movements.
In closing we are very pleased with our results for the quarter and the year.
We delivered ahead of our 2014 plan and have strong momentum heading into 2015.
With that we will open up for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brad Burke from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
I wanted to ask about the sources of capital over the course of 2015.
It looks like you’re planning on deploying around $600 million into development and acquisitions over the course of the year that’s net of your contribution and dispositions.
You raised equity during the quarter.
So I was wondering whether or not we should expect you’d be raising additional equity in 2015? Thanks Brad its Tom.
Okay.
When you look at our net deployment in 2015 it’s about $600 million all together.
If you exclude our share of acquisitions we are actually generating about $200 million of net proceeds in 2015.
So decision about how we’ll fund any growth really gets down to acquisitions.
And it will be a function of the opportunities that we see in the markets and the volume of activity we see and the relative returns and that’s going to drive our decision on how we capitalize and what equity we raise.
We clearly have the ATM program it’s a highly efficient way to issue equity.
We also have $3.4 billion of liquidity that we plan on maintaining that level.
Our plan assumes that level of liquidity throughout the year our lines under on and sitting on some cash.
So we feel very good about our ability to fund any growth and it’s going to be a function of opportunities we see returns we can earn and where our share price is trading.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Feldman from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Great thank you.
I was hoping you could focus a little bit on fundamental demand.
Just give us some color on what weakness or any weakness you’re seeing from changes in oil prices and we’ve seen a pull back in some of the durable goods numbers I think that earnings were relatively weak today.
So just kind of any big picture thoughts on what’s happening in the broader economy and the impact on demand as we roll into 2015? Sure Jamie it’s Eugene.
I’ll take that one.
So so-far we’ve really haven’t seen an impact and of course impact from oil prices are going to take some time to apply itself out.
So at the moment if you actually look at the markets that would be affected by that particular statistic Houston and Dallas they are looking pretty good right now.
Now having said that there isn’t any question that a long-term $4 to $5 price of oil is going to have negative impacts on Houston and it’s probably going to have negative impacts on the state of taxes generally but we have not seen that.
In fact in Houston fundamentals are robust.
Our portfolio there is about almost 9% leased and about 10% of our customers have any exposure to - which roll in directly.
So I’m not particularly concerned but having said that when we look at future capital deployment and development thoughts in the state of Texas we will be very selective on the sub-markets where we’re active in and of course a very delicate one.
Yes the only thing Jamie I would add to that is that remember we have we’re also pretty active in Europe and Japan and those are two net importers.
And a drop in the price of oil actually helps those economies.
Your next question comes from the line of David Toti from Cantor Fitzgerald.
Your line is open.
Thank you good morning guys.
Tom or may be can you just comment on the rent spreads in the quarter $6.2 versus $9.7 in the third quarter.
How much was that was a function of market mix or your weakness or spending specifics you’ll be great.
Yes this is Tom and I’ll let Gary or Eugene add-on.
It really was a function of mix this quarter.
And particularly in Europe and the amount of role we saw in Central and Eastern Europe.
Yes I think that’s it that’s the big story.
So Europe counted for about 33% of our leasing this quarter typically you see it about 25% and 26%.
And in disproportion amount of leasing was done in Central and Eastern Europe which were markets that were lagging.
I mean that’s not a good thing we’re leasing space in those tougher markets.
So it’s driving occupancy and NOI.
And as we’ve said this number is going to be volatile quarter-to-quarter but we feel very good about going into 2015 when you look at our annual rent change number.
So we think it’s going to be up over 2014 and as Tom said in his opening remarks driving same store NOI about 3.5% to 4.5% range on an owned and managed basis and higher than that on a Prologic’s share basis given our disproportionate waiting to U.S so a net-net we feel good about it.
Yes the only thing I would add to this is that we are going to be positive and strong throughout the year.
The first quarter will be the weakest quarter which is because of demographics of the leases and our rent change will accelerate throughout the year.
So just be prepared on that because you are going to have the same question three months from there.
Yes same as [ph] expectation actually with respect to Europe Southern and Central Europe.
Yes for Q1 so good point I’ll leave it.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim from SunTrust.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
If I heard you correct on because you provide guidance on what you expect on realized development profit in 2015.
And just a couple of questions around that which I think is a important metric that I think we haven’t [Indiscernible] that for a very long time.
What was on 2014 versus 2015 and if I just do some simple math I mean it seems like the margin is closer to 15% if I compared to your contribution guidance in 2015.
So I guess with more disclosure.
I have questions around that but maybe if you could provide some more color? Okay.
We did discuss what our expectations are for realized development gains.
So just to be clear we talk about when we stabilize assets we will talk about what our margins are at that time or margins are above 20% and what we are stabilizing which is similarly high levels on starts.
On for realized gains those are gains as a function of ours contributing those developments overseas into our ventures are also third party sales.
So those are realized they go through the P&amp;L.
The most important thing about those realized gains are that’s taxable income and it drives AFFO growth as well as dividends.
And we had a $172 million of realized development gains in 2014.
We are forecasting realized development gains between $200 million and $250 million in 2015.
That’s a function of higher stabilization that are coming off the development pipeline next year or in 2015 and those getting contributed into ventures as well.
Yes and then of course there is the unrealized gains that are the other half that don’t even hit the P&amp;L which is pretty interesting you know you are in a business that generates couple hundred million dollars of value creation and basically doesn’t show up anywhere in the P&amp;L.
Until couple of years later as in effect to getting free $200 million of real estate every year of that will produce a return.
So over time you get the return but you’re not getting it in anyway upfront.
Your next question comes from the line of Vance Edelson from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Great thanks.
Could you provide some color on U.S.
rental rates and the continued strength there specifically the relative rent change between larger and smaller warehouses and then what are some of the driving forces are for the demand in big-box versus small? Yes sure it’s Gene I’ll take that.
Our - we’re getting to occupancy levels that are historic yet we haven’t seen before.
And what we’re finding is that small customers that segment of the portfolio I think had about a 180 basis point increase quarter-over-quarter.
So that’s really the portion of the portfolio that we have left to lease.
And frankly that’s where we have more pricing powers.
So you have more rent growth with the smaller customers.
And as I said on previous calls that product has much higher replacement costs and we have ways to go before we reach that so that’s where we’re going to see a continuation of that.
In terms of big box and then Michael made some commentary on this but we see sort of two types of demand going on in the United States.
Big-box demand which is heavily oriented to e-commerce we don’t see that slowing down.
That’s going to be episodic quarter-to-quarter because they are very big transactions so we think that will continue.
And then on the small side of the spaces you just have an awful lot of pent-up demand in that category and very little it’s in construction and most of the markets.
Yes but in terms if big-box demand particularly in the build-to-suit segment we’re seeing a definite increase on size requirements which are reflective I think of more confidence that the customers have in their futures space needs.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning everyone.
I’m just curious in Europe and the comment sounded very similar to what we have been hearing over the last couple of quarters in terms of rents being capped by lowering cap rates but obviously doing very well in the occupancy front.
I was just curious given the economic conditions there and some of the key measures that are going on if there’s been any particular markets where you’re seeing maybe an increased opportunity to deploy capital or invest that maybe a little bit different than what you have seen over the past few quarters.
Just give an competitive level or your outlook for those markets.
Vincent our thesis in Europe is to be simple.
Our forecast when we prepared to 2015 plan in no way anticipated obviously QE.
So on the margin QE in Europe is a positive.
So and that’s now reflected in our guidance or anything.
So if anything on the margins there is upside in our numbers going forward.
Now is to how important that will be et cetera I can’t really tell you but I tell you that cap rates in Europe have probably compressed 75 basis points anyway and maybe more in some places not UK.
UK compressed couple of years ago and it’s one of the most cap rate markets in the world.
But the rest of Europe I think has compressed 75 basis points to 100 basis points maybe depending on the market and that is definitely a headwind on rental growth.
I think it will be a more emmenic [ph] rental growth as a result of that.
But we’ll take it in terms of increased value its okay.
But Vincent I guess one thing to add in terms of the weight of capital and ECB is driving cap rates down.
We’ve been in front of this if you think about it.
Look back to 2013 we deployed about $600 million in third party acquisitions; this year or last year rather 2014 about $1.2 billion; and prior to that we’re investing in our funds.
So I think we’ve been in front of it certainly the tougher environment on a go forward basis to acquire I would say large portfolios and [indiscernible] but we’ll be selective.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa from Evercore ISI.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hamid I can appreciate the fact that the business is performing well.
And then you guys are in a position to increase development starts.
I’m just wondering given some of the comments Jamie made about some of the consumer demand in drop some companies like CAT how you guys think about manage the development risk and potentially what are the warning sign that would get you guys to potentially pull back on the development stats.
Steve that’s a really good question and something that we think about all the time.
Our business has a lag with what’s going on in the real economy.
Remember when the business turned around sort of in 2011 we’re all sitting around wondering when why people we’re not taking space and what the redoing was the utilization rate was going up and utilization rate was absorbing all the net new demand.
But not transplanting into more space being leased.
And then finally people could no longer the utilization rate and they have to new space.
Nobody wants to lease industrial space because they liked it they only do it because they have to.
So finally U.S.
absorption picked up and that ended up being a big driver of demand.
So as the economy has sputters and these - the data sets that are coming out are really erratic.
I mean some data is really good and surprises people and some data like the cats of surprises the negative.
I don’t think we’ll see the impact of that until couple of years down the road and unless it’s a steady trend up one quarter down one quarter that won’t affect anything but if it’s a steady decline obviously we’ll show up in our numbers and demand for our product down the road.
But I don’t really think that that’s an overall we are going to be experiencing that anytime soon.
Now how we manage this is pretty simple we are buy and large most of our developments.
Well and third of them our businesses so those are leased and we know actually 35% of them and we know kind of where that stands.
And of the balance of 65% I would say the vast majority are in parts where we already have in a couple of buildings or many buildings and we are building the next incremental building.
And those parks that has usually lead to the next building been built are 97% occupied today.
So on the margin we may guess wrong on one building in one park but it’s not like the office business where you drop a million square foot building and three years later maybe you’re wrong about the market.
It’s a very incremental kind of growth.
So that’s what we do.
We look at how space is leasing every day every minute by talking to our people.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman from Citi.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning out there.
Tom I was wondering if you can just provide a little bit more granularity in terms of the FFO increase is coming from development I think you in your opening comments talked about $0.14 incremental in 2016 gross about $70 million of FFO.
And I guess when I look at the development pieces that we have it’s about $700 billion give or take of pre-stabilized developments that are obviously rolling into 2015.
And then overall $700 million increase in the amount [ph] of development stabilizations in 2015 out just to 2014.
And I assume the pre-state wide developments are earlier and $1 billion out of the $2 billion of developing ending in 2015 or probably later.
You are going to get this continual FFO growth.
And so maybe just provide us a little bit more details of the up and down exactly how much NOI was recognized in 2014 off of what base how much of that is still over from last year and how much was coming at 2015 so I assume it’s probably helping 2016 as well? Yes Michael.
Simple math would be we stabilized $1.5 billion in 2014 we’ll stabilize $1.8 billion if the midpoint in 2015 just take a simple half year convention.
So we’re going to get a half a year pop from 2014 take the yield to 7.5% we’re going to get half a year pop from 2015 stabilizations so half of the $1.8 million take that at 7.5% yield.
That gets you roughly $70 million that’s your $0.14 a share.
The important thing like you said is what this means going forward.
The pop we got in 2015 until our stabilizations of reach are steady state of development you’re going to continue to see this incremental pop from stabilizations every year because in 2016 we’re going to be stabilizing the other half you’re going to get a full year run rate on that $1.8 billion.
We’re starting about $2.5 billion at the midpoint in 2014 so that ought to be stabilizing in 2016.
So I would see I think we’re going to continue to see this pop until we reached the point that our stabilizations and our run rate at a steady state converge.
And the only other thing Michael I would add to that is that if you train a normalize kind of our earnings for the development ramp and all that there is one other thing you normalize for and that is dispositions over acquisitions.
Our dispositions tend to be more front-end loaded.
Our acquisitions and development completions and stabilizations tend to be back end completion.
And that training mismatch erodes or dilutes us by about $0.08.
So the $0.14 delivered will be offset by $0.08 of the bad in a steady state kind of environment.
So net net net it’s not as big as you would think.
And in a normalized year obviously acquisitions and dispositions would be equal and would be roughly the same timing.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum from UBS.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning guys.
I wanted to follow-up a little on Steve’s question if market trends in the U.S.
continue in the manner that they’ve been going which is that absorption has been outpacing construction so our industry occupancy rates are moving higher it would lead me to believe that one of two things are about to have an either you’re going to see accelerate market rank growth or you’re going to have to see more supply coming.
So I guess the question is which one is it MBD [ph] and why? Ross its Gene.
I think both are going to happen as you’re going to have one in certain markets and the other in markets where you can have more supply.
But overall at these levels we have nine markets above 98% of occupancy and 19 markets above 96% that’s in our portfolio.
And the underlying markets that we’re doing business in there are getting to occupancy levels they haven’t seen before.
So my guess and by the way at the same time the constraints on supplying new space continue to get more difficult.
So the entitlement process isn’t easier building our kind of product building industrial product is particularly challenging.
So I think you’re going to see more rent growth than immediate reaction in terms of new supply.
As we’ve forecasted we think supply will pick up in the U.S.
next year.
And we’re going to get closer to equilibrium but the other thing I’d point out is that as a percentage of stock these new completions are still very very low.
And frankly as a percentage of stock the net absorption is also low by historical standards.
So there is probably some upside there as well.
But let me tie this just something that we talked about in I think our Analyst Day may be two to three years ago when we laid out the thesis for very substantial rental growth which in those days was actually quite a position to take and it actually has played out pretty much that way may be a little bit better than the U.S.
and a little less in Europe but fundamentally the same way.
We laid out three steps in this rental increase scenario.
Step one is just a simple rollover of lease time at the trough to market rents.
Just spread to market of the existing leases.
Number two the catch up of market rents are that point in time to replacement cost rents which is kind of the phase we’re in now.
The third step is that as construction volumes increase price of construction is going to go up and we’re seeing this in many markets at substantially higher than inflation because margin will come back into the subs and into the general contractors and construction costs were going up.
And also land costs are going to be new cycle land cost with new entitlements bursement [ph] and all of that.
All of that stuff is coming in at significantly higher than inflation.
So replacement cost is not a static number it’s a number that is going up pretty fast right now.
Now at some point it will normalize but I think that we are in the middle to late stages of Phase II but Phase III hasn’t even started.
And there are some markets that are further behind some markets that are more closer in.
Inland Empire I would say your rents are right about the place where you can develop profitably and interestingly because of rent it’s because cap rates but same difference.
So replacement cost as a moving target and expected to move a lot in the next couple of years.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee from Stifel.
Your line is open.
We’re ready.
Well okay.
Couple of one long question.
Tom looks to us like your weighted average cost of interest went down from 4.2 to 3.6 as a result of all the tenders you did.
What’s to us the back of the envelope is that’s worth about $0.10 a share in FFO growth for 2015 over 2014 is that the right math.
And then second is what you are thinking about your dividend policy.
And then for Hamid PLD stock in oil is about 47 bucks a share will be higher in two years.
By the way John before we answer any of those questions I just wanted to give credit to keys for doing the best pronunciation of your name ever.
So let’s start with that.
Yeah.
So on the impact of the various debt tenders that we’ve done I’d say over the last two years.
The impact over on all of that has been about concerns like you said however we saw about $0.03 of that come through in our 2013 earnings or another $0.03 in 2014 and it will get about $0.03 to $0.04 to that in 2015.
So the 2015 impact is really $0.03 to $0.04.
Now if you isolate only the impact of the tenders and your analysis you’ll get a higher number but you can’t do that because you need to look at what we did to our overall capital stock.
We used to run our lines at over $1 billion drawn at a very low interest rate.
We are carrying zero outstanding balance at our line.
So it is $0.10 is not the right number it’s really $0.03 to $0.04 for next year.
And actually we’ve cashed on the balance sheet which fund the other way in terms of what it contributes.
In terms of the - our stock price versus oil I have no idea other than the fact that in the very long-term both of them are going to be up a lot.
And with respect to dividends which was the other part of your question by the way pretty good job of asking three questions.
But on the dividends basically our AFFO is growing pretty rapidly and though our dividends is going to grow somewhere in line or lower than AFFO and higher than inflation it’s going to be in that range.
So Tom you wanted to add.
Yes I will just add.
Our AFFO growth in 2014 was about 22%.
And looking at 2015 we see AFFO growth in line with Core FFO growth surround 11%.
And we look at and we have to look at our AFFO with realized gains because that impacts our TI.
And when we look at payout ratios this year our AFFO payout would be about 74% and in 2015 I think it’s going be probably even a little less than that payout ratio.
So we’ll be in the low somewhere in the low 70s payout ratio in 2015.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Mailman from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hi just curious the average maturity overall lease in this quarter hope the 15 months relative to previous I mean even this comment was it something in particular this quarter or are you seeing tenants trying to take a longer-term perspective on their space needs? And be aggressiveof the fact one for eachchannel that you guys have a pretty good queue of private capital wanted to be deployed.
May be just comment on what geographies that capital is looking for or may be any changes there and that’s the hurdles.
Where there return hurdles? Gary you have something.
Craig I’ll take your first question.
It’s Eugene.
We have now for the last few quarter we have been aggressively pushing term with this part of cycle we are pushing rents and looking for longer-term.
Most of you will recall during the downturn we scaled back dramatically and do not want to lock in low rents so that strategy has been shifting.
We have a very very large sort of quarter-to-quarter change 15 months don’t think of that as a trend.
So there is a little that aberration there but looking at say the trailing four quarters we’re up about 10% for five months and you’re going to see that continue.
So we’re going to continue putting term at least in the U.S.
and in Europe it’s probably a different story.
Garry has something.
Craig I’ll just say that what’s driving it up obviously the Americas in the U.K we’re about 75 months that’s typically a longer-term lease market and you’ve got the market that’s in our favor.
Obviously this particular quarter we had development leasing at $9 million square feet which is driving in the quarter-to-quarter up because the development leasing with high percentage of builder suites are generally longer-term.
But that’s offset by what we’re doing in Continental Europe we’re trying to stay short in Continental Europe so our average lease term is about 36 months there plus or minus because we want to take advantage of the rental growth when it does come through.
In terms of interest and private capital I would say it’s across the board.
And at pretty high levels I would say comparable to the mid-2000s because there’s a lot of pent-up demand these peoples set the market out for long time and not that there’s more liquidity in the markets there investors are back in.
If I were going to pick one region I would say Europe is getting the most interest on the margin.
As people view Europe as a place that has some cap rate compression still left.
And you know in Europe the appraisals are way behind reality.
And most people understand that.
So they’re trying to get their money invested based on old price as opposed to new prices that are being paid on the margin.
But people really do believe this cap rate compression story and the value being less in the European markets.
Your next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning.
Tom heard your response to my [indiscernible] question about the development.
Stabilization - has an impact in terms of FFO for 2015.
If I look at 2014 stabilization it was only $1.1 billion which was down from 2013 even though starts increased have increased each year from 2011.
What cost the stabilizations to be low in 2014 relative to kind of where it starts been in the past couple of years and do you see that risk or swing factor in FFO numbers could be as we look at 2015? Yes 2013 versus 2014 was a mix issue because a fair bit of the starts that we had in 2013 where in Japan.
And the Japan construction cycle is probably more like 18 months to construct and that leads up.
So that was the way that kind of over 2013 and the 2014.
But going forward Japan has been - we’ve had a very steady level of development starts 2013 2014 2015 in Japan.
So I don’t see that swinging at all and I’d see stabilizations should get closer and closer to our - forgetting average out like we said long-terms start somewhere in the $2.5 billion range.
It’s probably going to take us in 2017 until we get that an equal run rate.
But for simple map I would use sort of a two year lag between starts and stabilizations that’s a good real fund.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Catherwood from Cowen &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Just thinking about foreign currency here a bit was wondering what the same store NOI would have been in the fourth quarter and for 2014 inclusive of the negative currency movement and when we think about that [ph] being 89% U.S.
dollar net equity.
What kind of exposure FFO was you think you have in 2015 as far as base swings in the year or at the end? Yes I’ll answer your second question first.
As far as from a P&amp;L perspective we have virtually zero impacts from any FX movements.
We have hedged our estimated euro and yen net earnings for 2015 we hedged the euro at about a 1.20 1.2 and the Yen at 1.20.
So we are really locked in for earnings for 2015.
So we’re fully insulated.
On an NAV perspective at 5% move of all of our foreign currencies against us is about $0.25 a share impact on NAV.
The other item yes well the other question was on same-store we do report same-store on a constant currency basis so you can see the real impact of what’s happening on the operation side.
However if we look at our same-store impacted by FX our share would really go up because we are disproportionably owned in the U.S.
so about 75% of our NOI is in dollars.
And that relative percentage the U.S.
actually becomes a higher percentage if you FX adjusted because the dollar has strengthened against other currency.
So dollar goes up in that scenario Euro and Yen impact goes down.
So when you look at our share it would actually be more positive on an FX adjusted basis.
The other thing since you brought up FX I do want to touch on as we’ve got the question or two around in our reconciliation of FFO to our net income down to our Core FFO about whether we are backing out the impact of unrealized FX losses.
When you look at our operations virtually all of our FX activity around the world goes through our P&amp;L is realized and goes through our FFO.
The only thing that would go through unrealized FFO from a - I’m sorry go through unrealized FX or anything around the derivative.
We take those when they are realized.
When you look at our P&amp;L that line that says derivative losses in FX adjustments there’s two things going on to that line it’s a negative $20 million number that’s getting added back so a positive $20 million number.
That’s made up of a $36 million loss related to the mark-to-market on derivative our derivative convertible debt security.
So that convertible debt matures here in March we think it’s going to convert into equity is the strike price is $38.72.
From a GAAP perspective we have to mark to fair value of that derivative debt against our share price.
So our share price went up in the quarter we had to recognize a loss related though.
That we add back that was $36 million.
We actually had about $20 million of FX unrealized gains in the quarter and that all related to our hedges that we have about in place we have about $1 billion of hedges and those hedges they are worth about $160 million none of that $160 million have gains that we’ve realized over the last year since we have those hedges in place went through our P&amp;L zero.
So that should go through our NAV but none of that’s going through our P&amp;L.
So everything the vast majority of all the FX that happens around the world hits our P&amp;L hits our Core FFO.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon guys.
You talked about your share of the same-store NOI can you talk a little bit may be on your renewal basis kind of what your expectations may be the U.S.
and Europe specifically.
And then as you look forward to 2015 just given the compression we’ve seen in cap rate as well as the growth that you realized around the primary markets domestically in the U.S.
where do you see the best growth opportunities domestically? Okay I’ll take the first question just some color on where we would see same-store growth.
I’ll talk about it on an owned and managed basis.
We would see the U.S.
in the mid-five somewhere next year.
Europe and Asia in the call 1% to 2% range.
Now blending that all together when you look at our proportion and ownership that’s how you get something in the mid to high fours for our share of same-store growth next year.
And the growth opportunities if the question is related to where can we sort of push rents more aggressively I draw your attention to the desktop manual look away with very very high occupancies.
But I want to call two markets that have really been laggards one is Chicago and the other Atlanta.
Both of those markets sort of began to turn the corner in 2014.
Huge amounts of absorption and we’re actually seeing very very strong rent growths in those markets.
And for us that’s $50 million square feet of product and in terms of incremental growth in income I would probably point to those two markets in terms of potential for the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Frankel from Green Street Advisors.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Hamid or Tom who has the lower cost of capital.
You or the investor in your strategic capital queue.
I think our investors in our strategic capital queue have the lower cost of capital for core product.
I think we have a lower cost of capital for development activity.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Lesnick from Capital One Securities.
Your line is open.
Thanks I’ve got a clarification question on the North American Industrial Fund consolidation this quarter.
Ownership obviously increased from 42% in 2Q to 63% of 3Q but it didn’t consolidate what was the controlled threshold or test a qualified for a consolidation of 4Q that now that ownership is 66%? This is Tom.
It relates to the rights that the limited partners had in that fund and in Q4 we got down to just one remaining investor so it’s ourselves and one investor and as a result of that the limited partners rights control right went away.
That was a triggering event getting down to one investor.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Rodgers from Baird.
Your line is open.
Yes thanks.
Either for Tom or for Mike you talked lot about development in terms of the third of the starts being build-to-suit.
Could you talk geographically where you expect those starts to be? That earlier I missed it.
And now along those same lines can you talk about whether you’re seeing any differential in margin or development yield that would be different obviously geographically it varies? But any difference that you’re seeing start to emerge given kind of the economic environment out there? And then the second question just to Tom on the promotes I think you did expect some promotes whether there is some potential this year but I assume aren’t in guidance can you confirm that? Yes I’ll take the promote question first.
In my prepared remarks I did talk about our guidance does include $0.03 to $0.04 of net promote in 2015 in the fourth quarter of 2015 we have a promote opportunity with our PELP venture or Norges venture in Europe.
And again that’s $0.03 to $0.04 that’s in our guidance in Q4 of 2015 and it’s consistent with the level of promote we’ve recognized up in 2013 and 2014 earnings.
And in terms of this is Mike in terms of the complex the makeup of the development volume I think geographically as Tom mentioned in his remarks over 95% of the activity is going to take place in our global market where the fundamentals there are really strong call it 97% occupancy in those markets.
From a margin perspective we take the over in terms of our average relative to global markets relative to some of the regional markets we’re doing business in but it’s not a big appreciable difference and we still think regional markets are very meaningful part of our business.
And at the end of the day build-to-suits ought to about 35% of the total volume and I would point out that 35% of the larger amount of volume this year would be about 25% increase in the build-to-suit volume from last year.
We’re very bullish about how that pipeline looks given the amount of LOI’s and signed leases we have in terms of carry over volume already this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi I just wondering Norges the assets on balance sheet that you can contribute here in Norges JV this year what are you thinking about that growth 2015? We don’t have a contribution arrangement with Norges on any under assets with the JV on the series of assets.
Actually it’s two JVs one in the U.S.
one in Europe.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman from Citi.
Your line is open.
Yes just for follow-ups just in terms of the equity rates in the quarter when just in terms of timing when were you sort of notified that Norges is going to exercise the warrants? And then also when did you make the decision to tap the ATM and at what price did you do that? And I get the fact that the convert this coming will give you more equity in March but I guess where it starting today relative to your NAV do you have a desire to tap the ATM further given where it may have occurred in the fourth quarter? So from a timing perspective the Norges warrant was exercised in December.
And we tapped the ATM program in December.
Going back to our plans for 2015 again it really gets back to acquisition opportunity.
So if you strip out acquisitions our share out of 2015 guidance net net our deployment generates cash of I think roughly $200 million.
So our decision to raise equity will line up with the opportunities we see in the returns that we see with those acquisitions.
So that’s how we are looking at it.
If we see great opportunities to acquire portfolios we’ll think about the smartest way to capitalize that.
And I think we’ve got a lot of different way to do that when you think about our liquidity our ability to tap the equity markets and the substantial equity queue that’s built up in all of our private capital our strategic capital vehicles.
So we got lots of different ways we can fund deployment in acquisition to particular if we’d like the economics out there.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee from Stifel.
Your line is open.
Just Scott I’m sorry.
One of a question is that to imply Tom that you’re help promote this 4Q 2015 that also imply that Norges those from 50% to 80% in that same quarter or those apples and oranges? Yes those are apples and oranges.
We have the ability and this is true and I think almost all of our funds where we can earn we have the opportunity to promote every three years.
Fourth quarter of 2015 is the third anniversary of the formation of the PELP venture.
Therefore that is the first time first quarter in which we can earn a promote.
Likewise if you look to 2016 and you can see this in our disclosure or supplemental as we’ve got two other funds I think it’s our PELP II fund and [indiscernible] Europe both are up for promote opportunities in 2016.
So we’re going to see a steady stream of promote opportunities over the next several years given as Hamid mentioned our funds are performing about their bench marks.
So I would expect if that holds we’re going to see promotes not just in 2015 but continue one.
Now the other thing you’re referencing is that the PELP sell down right that we have but we can sell down our ownership interest down to a 20% interest.
That is totally independent of any promote of that’s a separate decision and that’s going to be a function of how we want to deploy our capital globally that’s going to trigger and what opportunities we have if and when we trigger that sell down right.
It’s also a as long as we think that decision in 10 point increments it’s not like all or none it’s an 10 point increment and it doesn’t all have to be - that decision doesn’t have to be made in 2015.
We have that window coming up every year so we can sell as much or as little as we want whenever we want pretty much.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Frankel from Green Street Advisors.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
I want to talk about U.S.
property values a little bit.
Could you talk about the composition of the property sold during the quarter I think the weighted average stabilized cap rate at the lowest I’ve seen in awhile.
I know that you guys have some unique properties you sold the south part of the Bay Area that where probably is going to be likely converted a couple of years.
So I’d like to understand as to where property value thinks our cap rate might have moved? I would say this we have a one property that would fall under the description of unusual in terms of unusual good in terms of Bay Area with an upside potential.
But the vast majority of our sales actually in the last couple of years have been non-strategic properties in smaller markets from the bottom of our portfolio.
So with the exception of that one deal in Silicon Valley the rest of it would be non-strategic sales.
So on average it would be lower than median of our properties probably a lot lower than the median of our properties.
Eric bottom line is the price stock on industrial cap rates in the U.S.
are in the low fours on the very best markets.
And in the low fives for most markets I’m talking about brand new great product in the markets everybody wants to be in with a good credit tenant.
And I would say low fives in most markets and sixes six pluses and six six and halves in some of the less strategic markets.
I’m not sure we deploy capital at those kinds of numbers in fact we won’t but that’s where the market is.
Your last question comes from that line of Jamie Feldman from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Thanks Hamid.
I guess can you walk through where you think cap rates are for Europe along the same lines what you just did for the U.S.? Sure.
London and the Southeast would be four Midland’s would be low fives Southern Europe would be six and half to seven with an aero down by the way on that one Germany would be in the low fives same with the rest of Northern Europe.
What am I leaving out? Eastern Europe.
Definitely in Eastern Europe would be six and half.
There are no further… And I’m sorry just a complete the global since we talked about everywhere else.
I think Japan is low fives hitting high fours and within the J-REIT structure it’s actually trading in high threes.
There are no further questions at this time.
I’ll turn the call back over to the presenters.
Right thank you everyone for being here I know how you are battling to storm back ease all the best to you in dealing with that.
I look forward to talking to you next quarter.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Kim and I’ll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Prologis First Quarter Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speaker’s remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Tracy Ward Senior Vice President of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Kim.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Prologis conference call.
If you have not yet downloaded the press releases or acquisition presentation related to this call they are available on our website at prologis.com under Investor Relations.
This morning you will hear from Hamid Moghadam our Chairman and CEO; Gene Reilly our CEO of the Americas; Tom Olinger our CFO; and also joining us for the call today are Gary Anderson Mike Curless Ed Nekritz and Diana Scott.
After our prepared remarks we’ll host a question-and-answer session.
Before we begin our prepared remarks I’d like to state that this call will contain forward-looking statements under federal securities laws.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates and projection about the market and the industry in which Prologis operates as well as management’s beliefs and assumptions.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and actual operating results may be affected by a variety of factors.
For a list of those factors please refer to the forward-looking statement notice in our 10-K or SEC filings.
Additionally our first quarter results press release and supplemental do contain financial measures such as FFO and EBITDA that are non-GAAP measures and in accordance with Reg G we have provided a reconciliation to those measures.
As is our custom after our prepared remarks we will please ask you to limit your question to one.
With that I will turn the call over to Tom who will begin with the highlights from our earnings from the first quarter.
Thanks Tracy.
Good morning.
As you’ve seen from our earnings press release we had a very strong start to the year.
Core FFO was $0.49 per share an increase of 14% over the same period last year.
Occupancy at quarter end was 95.9%.
Leasing volume was very good and as a result we saw a lower than normal seasonal dip in first quarter occupancy.
GAAP rent change on rollover was 9.7% positive across all regions and led by the U.S.
at 15.1%.
Cash rent change on rollover for the quarter was 3.3%.
GAAP same store NOI increased 3.5% on an owned-and-managed basis and 3.7% on an our-share basis.
CAM true-ups negatively impacted same store NOI by about 50 basis points in the quarter; however this is isolated to Q1 and will not impact our same store NOI run rate for the remainder of the year.
Given the momentum and occupancy in rent change we feel confident about same store NOI and are increasing the midpoint and narrowing the range on a GAAP owned-and-managed basis to 3.75% to 4.5% with our share expected to be 50 basis points to 100 basis points higher.
On the capital deployment front starts and acquisitions totaled $421 million while dispositions and contributions were $494 million.
The weighted average stabilized cap rate on dispositions and contributions was 3.6% which includes the previously announced value-added conversion sale on a 56-acre industrial park to Facebook.
Turning to capital markets we converted $460 million of convertible debt to equity during the quarter helping drive down leverage which was 34.4% at quarter end.
Debt to adjusted EBITDA including realized gains improved to 5.8 times and to 6.4 times without gains.
We also continue to have significant liquidity with $2.8 billion at quarter end.
Our USD net equity increased to 91% from 89% last quarter.
Looking further at foreign currency we continued our efforts to mitigate the impact on both NAV and earnings.
Notably we’ve now fully hedged our estimated sterling euro and yen earnings for both 2015 and 2016.
As a result movements in these currencies will have no impact on our estimated Core FFO throughout next year.
Let’s turn to 2015 guidance which does not reflect any impact of the KTR transaction as we’ll discuss this separately in a moment.
We have included guidance in our press release and supplemental so I’ll focus only on significant changes from last quarter.
Starting with deployment we’re increasing our disposition range to between $2.1 billion and $2.5 billion with activity coming from non-strategic asset sales in Europe and the U.S.
and we’re increasing our share of contributions to co-investment ventures to 65%.
As a result we now expect to fully fund our 2015 deployment activity through capital recycling.
In addition we’re increasing the range of realized development gains to between $250 million and $300 million for the year.
Putting this all together we are increasing the midpoint and narrowing our 2015 core FFO to a range between $2.07 and $2.13 per share.
This represents year-over-year growth to 12% or an increase of $0.22 at the midpoint.
This is on top of the 14% growth we had in 2014.
Again our 2015 guidance here does not reflect any impact from the KTR transaction.
Our existing portfolio continues to benefit from strong operating fundamentals and we’re well positioned to deploy capital at favorable returns.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Hamid to discuss the KTR transaction.
Thanks Tom and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your joining us today to discuss this exciting transaction.
Yesterday we announced the signing of definitive agreements to acquire KTR’s $5.9 billion business at a stabilized cap rate of 5.5% and in line with replacement costs.
The transaction is summarized on page three of the presentation.
The portfolio comprises of all of KTR’s funds and will be acquired by our consolidated joint venture with Norges Bank.
As we’ve discussed on previous occasions we’re interested in acquiring stabilized assets in the U.S.
only when we see a strong alignment in quality and location with our own holdings and when we bring significant competitive advantage to the table.
This transaction is an excellent example of these principles in action.
First it’s rare to find a portfolio that aligns so perfectly in terms of asset quality customer profile and market composition with our own.
We believe this synergy enables us to add immediate value through leasing and portfolio operations.
Second we worked hard to position our balance sheet and our institutional capital relationships to pursue significant investment opportunities such as this as they arise.
And third our OP unit structure the attractiveness of our currency and our ability to execute reliably and expeditiously give us an important edge on large complex portfolios as evidenced in both the KTR and Morris transactions.
Let me add that I’ve known the KTR leadership team for 15 years and have always considered them to be knowledgeable investors and among the most astute competitors in the U.S.
industrial market.
I would now like to walk you through the strategic rationale for the transaction which is summarized on page four of the presentation.
First the portfolio strengthens our U.S.
presence with highly complementary assets representing a 95% overlap with our existing U.S.
operating portfolio.
Second the acquisition presents a rare opportunity to deliver immediate accretion to our shareholders as we build an even stronger platform for sustainable growth.
Third this transaction advances our important partnership with Norges.
Specifically it will expand the assets under management of the USLV venture by 6x to $7 billion and grows our partnership with this leading investor to more than $11 billion of assets on two continents.
And fourth this acquisition expands relationships with our current customers and establishes some important new ones.
It also adds to our development pipeline driving incremental NOI growth as we lease up these properties.
With that let me turn it over to Gene to walk you through the details of the portfolio.
Thanks Hamid.
Please turn to page five of the presentation deck and I’ll start with some background on KTR for those of you who are not as familiar with them.
KTR Capital Partners is an investment development and operating company focused exclusively on U.S.
industrial real estate since its founding in 2004.
The company is a significant player in the sector and would actually rank second among public companies here excluding Prologis.
KTR’s investment strategy has been very similar to ours throughout its history.
They've been our toughest U.S.
competitor over the years and have consequently constructed a portfolio that is an extremely good fit for Prologis.
The real estate assets include three categories.
First a 60-million square foot operating portfolio of very high quality assets located throughout the U.S.
with over 70% focused in LA New Jersey Chicago South Florida Seattle and Dallas.
87% of the assets are located in global markets and as Hamid noted 95% are located where we currently operate real estate leading to the terrific operating synergies we’ll have here going forward.
Second there are eight well conceived development projects totaling 3.6 million square feet two-thirds of which are located in California.
50% of the development will be delivered at or near shale completion at closing and the remainder will be shale complete before year-end.
And finally 438 acres of land capable of supporting 6.8 million square feet in nine markets all of which appeal the targets and places in which our land bank needs to be restocked.
While the development portfolio and land complement our strategy and meet current needs combine they represent less than 6% of the transaction and our percentage of non-income producing assets actually declined post closing.
Turning to page 6 this really speaks for itself in terms of depicting the common market selection preferences between the two firms and the clear operating synergies of this combined portfolio.
Turning to page 7 and 8 we described the effect of the acquisition on the Prologis U.S.
and global portfolio metrics.
Key takeaways here are as follows obviously a very well aligned portfolio as compared to ours.
The KTR portfolio is slightly younger with a longer remaining lease terms.
The portfolio is also under leased at 89% occupancy currently.
We are highly confident in our ability to bring this occupancy in-line with the rest of our U.S.
portfolio within 12 months.
We are active in these markets know all of these assets and actually look forward to taking this on in the current operating environment.
This gap by the way represents about two or three weeks of normal leasing volume for us in the U.S.
Finally U.S.
equity is up significantly on top of a nice quarterly improvement in the metric pre-acquisition and finally turning to page 9 from the customer perspective the addition of this portfolio will expand relationships with over 150 multi-market customers that today lease space from both firms.
Like Prologis KTS a sophisticated customer outreach strives to develop strategic not purely transactional relationships with the customers and their roaster.
And with that I am going to turn it over to Tom to discuss capitalizing and transaction.
Thanks Gene.
I will continue on page 10 of the presentation.
While this transaction provides immediate accretion to core FFO and to cash flow it also has other significant financial benefits.
First the acquisition will increase our share of U.S.
dollar investments.
Our U.S.
dollar net equity post the KTR transaction will increase to 93%.
As Dean mentioned we can efficiently integrate these assets and as a result we expect to lower G&amp;A as a percentage of AUM by about 12%.
Let’s move to slide 11 to discuss how we plan to finance the transaction.
We are committed to maintaining a very strong balance sheet with significant liquidity.
This transaction has proof of why a strong balance sheet and ample liquidity is a strategic advantage.
Longer term we will finance the transaction at line with our capital strategy which includes both debt and equity on a leverage neutral basis.
In the interim we have many different options to fund the transaction and it’s important to remember we’ve already financed 45% of the deal through USLV.
Let’s look at the book ends of our options.
On the asset side this includes incremental dispositions of non-strategic assets and fund contributions in addition to the potential sell down of our interest in PELP our European venture with Norges.
If we assume funding the transaction using a mix of accelerated dispositions of non-strategic assets contributions and sell down of fund interest the annual stabilized core FFO accretion would be about 5% or $0.11 per share with year-end leverage of about 35%.
On the debt side we have significant availability on our line and capacity for more unsecured and secured debt.
We have also obtained a commitment for a bridge loan from Morgan Stanley for up to $1 billion to ensure we continue maintaining significant liquidity regardless of how we elect to fund this over the near term.
If we assume we fund the entire transaction with long term debt the annual stabilized core FFO accretion would be about 9% or $0.18 a share with year-end leverage of about 38%.
We also have a 750 million ATM program in place.
Regardless of the various combination of capital in the interim over the long term we will fund this on a leverage neutral basis.
We will provide more information on financing plans at the appropriate time.
Turning to accretion on slide 12 on a leverage neutral basis we expect the transaction to deliver accretion of $0.14 on an annual stabilized basis.
We expect to hit this annual stabilized run rate in mid-2016.
This represents about 7% growth over the mid-point of a revised 2015 guidance.
When you consider our net deployment for the rest of the year including funding this transaction on a leverage neutral basis our leverage at year-end would decline to approximately 33%.
From a cash flow or AFFO perspective we expect growth in-line with core FFO.
The impact of this transaction on 2015 core FFO will vary based on the closing date of the deal and how we finance this in the short term.
However assuming we close in June and fund initially on our leverage neutral basis 2015 core FFO accretion would be approximately $0.05 a share.
To wrap-up on page 13 we are very excited about this transaction as it meets all of our strategic objectives.
It is very high quality and consistent with our long-term investment strategy provides significant accretion to core FFO and cash flows on a leverage neutral basis increases our U.S.
dollar net equity lowers G&amp;A as a percentage of AUM and expands our relationship with Norges Bank.
With that I will turn the call over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instruction] And your first question comes from the line of George Auerbach from Credit Suisse your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Tom just a few questions to help us in the street models.
First the deck noted it's a 5.5% stabilized cap rate.
Can you comment on the cash yield today? Second maybe for Gene the 89% occupancy where is the vacancy in the portfolio just to help us think through just how fast you’ll lease that up? And three Tom the $0.14 of accretion to core FFO is that a GAAP number or a cash number? I’ll start – go ahead.
Gene will start and I will answer the last question.
Yes George I’m going to start with the leasing.
So one of the things first of all the vacancy is actually distributed pretty much throughout the portfolio so we don’t have pockets of vacancy.
We have a couple of large buildings but nothing worth pointing out.
One thing I didn’t mention in the prepared remarks we have leases signed that haven’t yet commenced or leases out for about 240 basis points of occupancy right now.
So we hit - the timing just happens that it’s 89% but actually we are going to start quite a bit higher than that and as I said we are not concerned about getting this amount.
So your first question was related to cash yields and I don’t know Tom you probably want to talk that one.
Well George I’ll answer your question on $0.14 a share that is a GAAP measure and that includes about $0.02 to $0.03 of non-cash items which would include any impact on resetting straight line rent any impact on resetting lease mark-to-market as well as debt mark-to-market.
So again the $0.14 is on a GAAP basis includes $0.02 to $0.03 of non-cash items and when you think about what the impact on AFFO is we think the AFFO growth from this transaction will be right in line with our core FFO growth.
So any of the scenarios I talked about you should consider AFFO growing in line with that – those growth rates.
Yes let me answer George’s first question.
George if you stabilize the portfolio to 95% which is in line actually a little bit lower than our existing portfolio that’s when you get to your 5.5% at the current 89% you are at 5.2%.
So I think that’s the number you were looking for.
And your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman from Citigroup your line is open.
Hey guys.
Manny Korchman here with Michael.
If we just think about the value that you ascribe to the operating platform and Jeff and his Team is there a non-compete there? Can you help us think about those two topics when you approach this transaction? Sure I mean the operating platform you can approach its value from two places.
One is how would the market value this and there are fair number of comps for investment management organizations.
Their EBITDA round numbers was in the mid-to-high $20 million range and at 2.30 that works out to a little under a nine multiple on EBITDA.
On our side from our point of view given the synergies that we have on the overhead side and the arrangements we have on the investment management side our EBITDA is actually – going to be a little bit higher than that in terms of synergies.
So the multiple to us would be a little bit lower than it would be to the upside market.
So depending on which of those two measures you want to look at somewhere between a seven and a nine multiple on EBITDA.
And your next question comes from the line of Jeff Specter from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
This is Jamie Feldman here with Jeff.
If I could just ask a follow-up to the prior question and then I'll ask my question.
The follow-up being what are the synergies? And do you expect to maintain a lot of the KTR staff and platform? And then my actual question is just following up with Tom on slide 11 can you talk us through the magnitude of some of these financing options? Getting a lot of questions about how much equity you'd actually need.
And then also thinking about maybe the PELP ownership or some of the other things you could have prefunded what was the thought on not having all the financing in place at this point? So Jamie it’s Gene.
I will answer your first question.
So we have the opportunity to recruit talent from this team and we certainly hope to hire a number of people.
We are taking on 60 million square feet here.
As you know we manage our real estate in-house with an in-house property management team.
KTR also ran their business in an integrated model.
And you know frankly besides sharing an investment strategy that was pretty much in common with Prologis their approach of running the business was also very similar.
I think they have some of the best people in the business.
And they work within a platform that treats customers the same way and approaches the brokerage community and the broader real estate community in the same way.
So that is very attractive for us.
So we certainly will be taking on a number of their people primarily in property management roles in terms of numbers but also some of their investment folks as well.
Yeah.
Just to be clear I think in the past you have heard us say that we can take between $10 billion to $20 billion of incremental assets in our markets without any increase in G&amp;A.
This transaction is totally consistent with that notwithstanding what Gene said which are those additions are on the property management leasing side which are attributable at the property level and are already factored into the cap rate and all the things we just talked about.
In terms of the bottom line G&amp;A of the company we anticipate no change.
And in fact having gone through this exercise now we are even more convinced that we can take on maybe $10 billion or $15 billion more of assets again without a commensurate or without any increase in the below the line G&amp;A.
And Jamie this is Tom.
I'll answer your question.
First on being prepared we have been getting prepared for a transaction like this for the last four years and getting our balance sheet to where it is with high liquidity low leverage strong cash flows.
I'll walk you through some of the assumptions on the different scenarios.
So first on the leverage neutral scenario where earnings were $0.14 on a leverage neutral basis so what we are assuming there is equity of approximately $1.7 billion so that would include the units of $230 million and the balance of common equity.
So call it $1.5 billion.
About $1 billion dollars of debt.
About $400 million which is assumed so incremental new debt of about $600 million.
And then we've got a combination of other assets which is cash and some other liquid assets plus some additional asset sales of about $500 million.
So those are the three components that get you to our share of the funding of $3.2 billion.
Again 1.7 of equity $1.5 billion which is common a $1 billion of debt and about $500 million of other assets.
That takes our leverage in combination with our deployment guidance for the full year without KTR all of that in combination gets us to LTV of about 33% at year end.
The asset sales scenario we talked about simply replaces that $1.5 billion of common equity with a combination of asset sales and fund contributions and sell downs of interests.
So the debt component's exactly the same.
That results in earnings accretion of about $0.11 a share and we end up with leverage at the end of the year of about 35%.
The last scenario is if we fund this transaction all with debt and that scenario is $0.18 of accretion and we would end up the year at leverage around 38%.
So we feel really good about our ability to fund this in a variety of different ways.
And our leverage in all of these scenarios continues to be very good even in the fully debt scenario.
So we feel good about where our balance sheet is we feel really good about our liquidity through any of these various iterations and we feel good about our rating as a very solid BBB+ BAA1 company.
I would like to add one more thing.
A couple of years ago we did our first joint venture with Norges in Europe basically recapitalizing pepper and some other assets in Europe.
And at that time you may recall that we did it on a break-even cost basis about an 8 cap.
And the reason we retained a 50% interest is that we were confident that there would be some value appreciation in that portfolio and we negotiated the right to sell up to 30% of that venture down to 20%.
Well in the interim two years cap rates have in that portfolio compressed from 8 to about 6.4 as of the end of the year.
We believe that those cap rates will continue to compress just based on real-time transactions in Europe to probably 6 or a little bit under.
And that is a negotiated right that at any time we can basically pull that lever and generate a $1.1 billion of capital to fund this or any other activities we might have.
So to think of it as a built-in equity issuance out there that we can always use we have great optionality there to fund our business.
And your next question comes from the line of Gabriel Hilmoe from Evercore.
Your line is open.
On the 5.5 stabilized cap rate does that include all the current developments in process as well as the land being built out? If not where does the yield move to assuming those are built out and stabilize? And then just one for Gene as far as market rents where is the KTR portfolio relative to market today? So let me take your last one first.
We think that their portfolio is under rented pretty much in the same neighborhood as our U.S.
so call it 10% under rented.
Relative to the yields the numbers we gave you were for the operating portfolio.
If you add the development portfolio those yields go up a little bit as you can imagine because we have a margin in there.
But it is such a small component you are talking about basis points.
And the land is priced as we would buy land okay? So when that is put into production again that is going to push the yield.
But it is $90 million of land and that again is basis points.
Yeah the projected value add on the development portfolio is about 7%.
Now remember the development portfolio is almost all under construction and in various stages of being completed so a lot of the risk has been taken out of it.
And but there is still a pretty good spread of 7% between it and its retail value.
And your next question comes from Ross Nussbaum from UBS.
Your line is open.
Hey guys a couple of part question on the fee side.
Tom first of the $0.35 to $0.37 of accretion that that you talked about that was NOI plus fees how much of that was fee income? And then the second question I have was you are buying I guess the KTR platform here.
What's just simply buying the assets and not paying the $230 million for the platform just simply not an option in this deal structure? I’ll take the first question.
On the incremental fees it’s about - it’s between $0.02 and $0.03 is the incremental fees in that caption on page 12.
And it’s Gene I’ll take the second one.
First of all no that was not an option.
And second of all we wanted it.
We are getting benefits out of this we’ve already described and there is a lot of intangible benefits as well that come along with this mostly in their people reputation brand in the industry.
As we said this is a tough competitor who we think is really really good.
And your next question comes from Ki Bin Kim from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Just a couple of quick questions.
I'm not sure if I missed it but what is the total value of the plus CIp? And second question going to the equity portion for funding for this deal I mean about a $1 billion to do right? Your stock I have a trading around 10% discount to NAV.
Just curious to know what is your thinking process in terms of timing? Like you know is it within a couple of years? Maybe slightly I don't want to say agnostic to the pricing but is $42 $43 a share is that in the range where you would commit to that equity neutral statement? Or is it longer term where you want your stock price to be closer to NAV before you actually pursue a equity or leverage neutral transaction like this? And maybe tied to that you know I thought the whole point of having a low levered balance sheet was not to maintain that low leverage but was actually to use it and maybe take leverage up for a deal like this.
So curious why you even have to keep it leverage neutral.
Thanks.
Okay those are all good questions.
So let me take them one at a time.
The land bank is $90 million of the total deal and the construction in progress is $260 million of the whole deal.
Secondly in terms of how we think about equity first of all it would be really unfair and and misleading if we reported the accretion of this deal on a levered up to 38% basis using debt which is something we can do but some of that benefit $0.04 of that benefit would come from levering up and we can lever up anything and generate that.
So really we chose to describe the transaction on a leverage neutral basis and that leverage neutral level is pretty consistent with our goals because remember this company is still driving towards a single A rating and we are committed to that.
In terms of the level of equity that we need to generate actually to do it perfectly on a leverage neutral basis if we were doing nothing else the number is about $1.5 billion and we are issuing about a little over $200 million of OP units to the seller.
So the number is $1.5 billion.
When we would do that totally depends.
We are going to be opportunistic.
We know what the value of our properties are and we are in no rush.
As you heard from Tom we have multiple ways and multiple levers to pull in terms of financing this transaction.
And hopefully we'll be thoughtful about when we take advantage of the equity markets.
But we don't need to do it today tomorrow or even six months from now.
We have plenty of runway to do that but we will equitize this transaction.
Your next question comes from Blaine Heck from Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
Follow up on that last one.
Can you tell us where the $44.91 share price for the OP units issued to KTR came from? And then maybe can you comment on the timing of the deal at this point in the cycle versus maybe investing more in Europe where you guys have said that value seemed to be accelerating a little bit more? So in terms of $44.81 our deal was the stock price for the 20 trailing days of trading with a floor of consensus NAV which on the day that we shook hands was $44.81.
So that’s where that came from.
So actually consensus NAV is higher than that now but it happened to be that on that date.
In terms of what was the other question? Timing of the deal why this is opposed to Europe? Well we are doing both.
I mean this is we can't exactly time strategic transactions like this and we can't plan for them.
So and as you know we are not in the business of buying a lot of companies.
Because frankly every time we look at a portfolio we realize that there is no fit between it and our business.
And if we want to buy something we usually have to go through I don't know selling half of it so it is pretty complicated.
This is the one portfolio that has almost a perfect match with our own holdings so we have been very excited about it because of these synergies.
And that doesn't mean that we are not active in Europe we continue to be pretty active in Europe and we have a good capital recycling model with our funds that adequately capitalizes our development business in Europe.
And we did a lot of acquisitions in Europe in the last 24 months before the pricing really started tightening up.
Pricing is tightening up.
We think there is more room on the cap rates but there has been 100 basis points to 150 basis points of cap rate compression in Europe since we started investing there in this cycle.
There is probably another 50 basis points to 75 basis points left and we'll be opportunistic to take advantage of those deals as well.
So it is not an either or.
We just can't plan on transactions like this.
Your next question comes from Craig Mailman from KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
It’s Jordan Sadler with Craig.
My question is something a follow-up on that last question.
I guess based on the commentary we've heard from you most recently I think we would have felt that you have thought that the U.S.
was longer in the tooth as it relates to the stage of the rental rate growth cycle and as it relates to where cap rates are evaluations are whereas there seem to be more room or upside in Europe.
And so I guess this transaction comes as a little bit of a surprise in that you seem to be buying the U.S.
here.
So is there anything that's changed relative to maybe the comments in February and March? So I think at one of the conferences somebody asked me where we are in the cycle of what inning we are in.
And I think specifically about the U.S.
I answered the question that we are in the eighth or ninth inning on the cap rates.
And by the way I have been wrong about that for the last two to three years.
Cap rates have continued to compress.
But we think cap rates are pretty much there.
We said that we are in about the fifth or sixth inning of market rents recovering.
And as you know for the last three years we have been talking about the market rent recovery and actually had some pretty specific projections that we shared with you which to be honest with you were controversial at the time but turned out to be really correct and in fact a little understating the rental recovery.
And most importantly in terms of rents in the portfolio we are in the second maybe third inning.
Because these market rents have only started escalating in the last two to three years and it takes awhile before all these things are all through the portfolio.
So really the attractiveness of this portfolio in addition to its fit is the opportunity to capture some of those rents as we work our way through the portfolio.
Europe just to be clear has had cap rate compression significant cap rate compression very consistent with the way we call it.
The rental upside in Europe will be less because the rental declines in Europe were less during the downturn so we think we are in the early stages of rental recovery in Europe probably in the first or second inning of the rental recovery other than the UK.
The UK is very use-like.
But most of Europe is in the early stages of rental recovery and the real story in the short term in Europe is cap rate compression.
So they are flipped Europe is cap rate compression modest rent recovery.
U.S.
probably not a lot more cap rate compression but pretty robust rental growth.
There is also one other thing I would like to say because it's really important.
We all sit around and throw around cap rates because they are just really easy things for people to discuss.
But there is an underlying quality and the ability of the portfolio to generate same store growth over time.
You are seeing that in the Prologis portfolio today.
We have worked hard to prune our portfolio down to the key global market and you are seeing that our U.S.
rent change this quarter was 15% up with that up against anybody else’s numbers and the KTR strategy is very consistent with the Prologis strategy.
So we think these high quality portfolios will outperform in terms of same store NOI growth over time and frankly to buy another portfolio and there have been portfolios for sale for another 40 basis points on the cap rate and giving up just upside we don’t think it’s too wise even though it sounds like a better cap rate.
That’s how we think about it.
And your next question comes from the line of Eric Frankel from Green Street Advisors.
Your line is open.
I was hoping you'd comment on these types of deals and how you view your development platform franchise? I see you guys you talked about in the past you guys have ascribe a lot of value to it so I just wonder if you think about dilution when you think about these larger types of deals especially relative to your cost of capital now which we will argue is not particularly strong.
Thank you.
Well it’s all a big circle isn’t it.
I mean yeah we do think our development business has value.
We have done everything we can you know last two to three years to show its ability to generate profits and that continues and we’ve talked about maybe getting your 5% or 6% multiple 5 times or 6 times multiple on those sustainable development gains but we are not getting it and all the NAVs that people throw around are exclusive of that development platform.
Some people are beginning to give us a little bit of credit for that maybe on the order of $0.50 or $1 a share but certainly not on the order of $3 to $4 a share which has six multiple on those earnings would imply.
So and the reason our cost to capital is in your view not very attractive is because we are not getting full credit for that development business.
Now with this transaction we really are reducing the percentage of the company always that has non-income producing asset because this is a large portfolio operating asset and actually the other thing we are doing is actually cranking up their percentage of assets in the U.S.
and those two things over time should make this debate about the development the value of the development business less important as the value of the operating – as the size of the operating portfolio gets bigger and bigger because our development business is not going to get proportionally bigger but the underlying operating portfolio will continue to grow.
And your next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Hi everyone.
Just wanted to see if we could get some more color on just the background of this deal obviously you've been working with these guys or aware of them dealing with them for a long time.
But just curious about the timing and maybe coincides with the cycle question but why now? And maybe the decision to bring Norges in were they the driver behind this? Or did you consider this for the wholly-owned portfolio at all? Yes Gene.
Yes I think - first of all Norges wasn’t the driver of this.
I think it was pretty well known that KTR was exploring opportunities for its first two funds kind of throughout last year and we are aware that engage in dialogue and took into a bit of different direction but as you said we’ve known these guys for a long time and we’ve competed against this business for a long time.
We always have respected how they do things and we like to real estate.
So this naturally went in the direction of basically buying the entire business.
Once that was solidified then Norges came into the transaction but they didn't drive the deal.
Yes our understanding was that the alternatives they we’re looking at and you would have to ask them about it but primarily was focused on recapping the first two funds and continuing the investment of fund three as we understand it.
Also the other alternatives probably did not include attractive currency like we have that would be desirable to certain of the investors.
And your next question comes from the line of John Guinee from Stifel.
Your line is open.
Hi Tom and I guess your team there I’m sure you have done a lot of forward NAV numbers and if you hold your cap rates fixed is this going to end up being a value creative or value destructive two or three years down the road.
This deal as Hamid talked about will be value creative for sure.
When you look at the growth potential of this portfolio and its fit the efficiencies in which we can integrate this portfolio I think those two things alone will create a lot of value over the next several years.
And notwithstanding the immediate accretion of this deal most importantly on a cash flow basis.
We talked about the $0.14 of earnings and there is about $0.02 to $0.3 estimate in there of noncash items but our AFFO should grow toe-to-toe with core FFO.
So I think there is value creation all around this thing whether you want to take an earnings cut or a quality slice a growth cut we are very excited about the upside here.
John let me give you a couple of numbers so you get a sense for this.
This portfolio once you look at the operating assets is about $92.50 a foot.
And if you look at the U.S.
portfolio that Prologis has it's a little over $82 a square foot.
So there is about a 12% difference in terms of price per foot between these two portfolios.
But there is a 15% rent difference between the portfolios.
In other words this transaction average rent market rent is $547 and the Prologis portfolio prior to this deal is $4.73.
So 12% more price per foot 15% more in rent.
So in terms of metrics it's very comparable and actually attractive compared to our portfolio.
Now why is it a little more expensive and higher rent? Well because it has the Prologis portfolio is about 50% focused on the top five markets and this portfolio is about 56% focused in those markets.
So slightly higher concentration in the bigger markets and longer average lease terms.
The average lease term in this portfolio is about six and change and our portfolio before this deal is about four.
And finally in terms of age the Prologis portfolio is about 20 years 21 years this is about 17 years.
So on a couple of parameters mix of market age and duration of leases if you adjust for it you can very quickly get to the same evaluation and the rents lineup exactly with that.
Now why did I take you through all this? Because we are a big believer on rental growth in the Prologis portfolio absent this.
Remember last year we grew our earnings and the leverage by 14% our FFO per share.
This year at the mid-point we are growing our earnings even before this deal at 12% per share again with neutral or slightly declining leverage.
And this transaction adds another 7% on top of that when fully equitized.
So obviously those are pretty good numbers.
And to have more of the kind of the real estate aligned with ours that can produce those kinds of growth numbers we think is a pretty attractive proposition.
And your next question comes from the line of Vance Edelson from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Sumit Sharma for Vance Edelson.
Most of our questions have been asked.
But I guess what I'm wondering is is there any part of the portfolio that you would consider noncore or something that you would sell immediately? And also going back to your question on pricing I guess this particular deal changes the competitive landscape of – at least from an e-commerce fulfillment category because I see that one of the most telling charts is slide 9 which has Amazon shooting up like crazy.
The question really is having picked up one of the top three e-commerce fulfillment center developers are you seeing higher pricing power as part of the revenue synergy eventually? Or if not what else is there driving up the revenues? Yes let me just address the question about Amazon and Gene can talk about the other part of your question.
I wouldn't exactly use the words shooting up.
Amazon when it is fully shot up is 2.4% of our global rent roll.
So it’s an important customer but our rent rolls are very very diversified across different players.
Gene do you want --? Yes so your last question which is a good one is did we factor in any sort of competitive advantage in pricing power with Amazon or other ecommerce? No we did not do that.
Having said that that’s kind of part of the platform.
KTR has probably the best relationship with that particular company on the build-to-suit than anybody and we’ve done a lot of business with Amazon ourselves by the way.
So what was the first question? Yes sales sales.
So there is a an immediate sale portfolio and immediate probably means the next couple of years 4% to 5%.
It is small and basically it’s kind of flex the assets in south Florida some in California.
But it’s very very very small.
And you next question comes from the line of Mike Salinsky from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hi this is Neil Malkin I’m with Mike.
A couple of questions.
On the KTR portfolio you guys cited a good amount of vacancy that you can lease up.
Just wondering how you factored in the fact that you can get to 600 basis points 700 basis points of occupancy increase within a year KTR was an astute operator? And then also are the prop 13 resets and the occupancy growth are all those things factored into that 5-5 stabilized yield? Yes.
Let me take the first one.
So KTR is a very astute operator.
But they are also a private equity investor with finite live funds and I can tell you they don’t manage the occupancy they manage the value.
And you should call them up and ask them what they focus on.
Our approach is more balanced.
But frankly to move this we have 250 basis points pretty much in the bank.
This is like a couple of weeks of leasing.
I’m really not that concerned with it.
So we can maybe go into that in more detail.
But our teams are the best leasing teams in the country and I think that our stats speak for themselves.
As to your other question do we have everything baked into the stabilized returns? Yes.
And your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman from Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Yes I just had two questions.
One was Tom I think you mentioned $1.7 billion of equity and I’m just curious if you think about 85% leverage call it 6.5 times debt to EBITDA that is an equity commitment closer to $2 billion to $2.1 billion so I wasn’t sure if I heard the $1.7 billion wrong.
And the second question was just related to earnings.
You took up your current 2015 guidance $0.2 at the midpoint and I was wondering if you can walk through the drivers of that increase because anything you start thinking about the changes it would seem more that it’s tilted down because you are selling a lot more assets contributing more you have lower strategic capital revenue you have slightly higher acquisitions and slightly higher same store but I would argue the dispositions and the lower strategic capital revenue would have offset both of those.
Okay Michael I’ll take both of those.
On your first question the stock when we talk about the $0.14 of earnings and leverage neutral that assumes 1.5 billion of common stock and 230 million of units so $1.7 billion in total.
And that relationship when you also consider the debt we are issuing and the $500 million of other assets so there is cash in that number of other assets.
There are some other assets that we are utilizing.
So that is a perfect 65%-35% equity debt split which is debt in line with where our leverage was at the end of the quarter.
We ended leverage at the end of the quarter at 34.4%.
So that is the equity number that is needed $1.7 billion all in with the units that keep us in our quarter relationship.
Your other question about Q1 earnings and thank you for asking a question about Q1 earnings.
We got them out early.
Yes we are up $0.2 at the midpoint and that is really driven by operations.
Yes we did have some deployment move around we increased our dispositions but that was a fairly wide range that we gave you initially and we tightened that up.
But when you look at the year the increase the midpoint of $0.2 it’s really operations driven and it’s the fundamentals that you hear us talking about that we have confidence in and we are seeing come through our numbers.
Hey Michael there is one other really important transaction too that helps with this equity math that you were trying to do.
Remember we sold something that was in our NAV probably for low $100 million range for about $400 million and that was the Facebook campus.
So that obviously generates a lot of capital.
And your next question comes from the line of Eric Frankel from Green Street Advisors.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Just speaking of earnings Tom can you go through the expense true up process and just talk about how expenses can ramp up like that? And second just in terms of dispositions now a factor for the year is this at all related to the KTR deal? And third it looks like Amazon’s roughly 10% of the KTR portfolio.
You know from what I understand there is a lot of highly amortized improvements that go into those developments; I know KTR has done a lot of that.
Can you talk about the economics of those deals and what do you think the long-term rent for those facilities matches up to typical brand new generic asset? Thank you.
Questionnaire Eric it’s Gene.
I'll take the last question first relative to Amazon.
So you are correct.
I mean what really drives the longer lease terms in this portfolio would the Amazon leases represent a lot of that and that – those will have slower growth over time.
And if you look at this portfolio probably the trade-off is longer lease terms slightly slower growth because you are not capturing what we believe market rent growth to be.
But in terms of above standard tenant improvements I mean we strip those out in terms of how we analyze any acquisition including this one.
Yeah those are not in the numbers that are reflected in the cap rate analysis.
Eric I’ll take your other two questions.
First in the CAM true up we go through CAM analysis every quarter.
And we do a true up to billings for the prior year in every Q1.
When you look specifically at Q1 what happened this time it’s not a relatively large big expense number.
It is about $3 million.
But what you have is we had a slight positive true up in the Q1 of 2014 a slight negative true up in 2015 and the delta between those two was about $3 million.
But that’s far less than 1% of total operating real estate costs for the whole year which is really what this is driving to.
So it has a really surprisingly disproportionate move in your same store.
Your second question about deployment changes the deployment changes that we made absent KTR were made independent of the transaction.
We’ve talked about accelerating sales of non-strategic assets particularly in the U.S.
We are also looking at the sale of non-strategic assets now in Europe.
And we just tightened up the range and tightened up our approach with that to sell into this market right now.
And your next question comes from the line of John Guinee from Stifel.
Your line is open.
First Hamid great insight and value add on the per pound and rents versus the two portfolios.
Second you may have said this and I just didn’t catch it but is Norges also buying a 45% interest in the platform the land and the underdevelopment? Or are they only a 45% interest in the 60 million square feet? We are 45-55 across the board.
Okay everything? Yeah.
Got you.
Thanks.
And your next question comes from the line of Brad Burke from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Let’s move on.
Sorry about that guys.
Good morning.
I had you on mute.
Just a quick one from me.
Can you comment on the $5.9 billion paid? How that will compare potentially to the estimates that you have for total replacement costs for the entire portfolio? Yeah sure.
Brad its Gene.
We think we are buying this right at replacement costs.
And by the way in terms of kind of timing and the cycle and so forth remember we think replacement costs are going to move up pretty dramatically.
They certainly have in the last year or two and we think that's going to continue.
So we like this entry point.
But it's right at it.
And your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman from Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Yes one last one.
Yes.
One last one.
Just in terms of that 5.5% yield I think you talked about being stabilized with the increase in occupancy by next summer.
And I think Tom you said there is $0.02 to $0.03 of non-cash.
I don't know how much of that is actually in the 5.5% quoted yield it is all in about 40 basis points.
So maybe you can just help us.
What is the going in current cash yield day one at 89% occupancy with the current rents? And then what is that next summer what are you assuming that occupancy goes to? I assume it's 95% if you are taking it to stabilize how much market rent growth are you assuming? And what is your I think the – you said the rents were similar below market to your so I assume seems there is some pickup also from whatever their role is next year.
Maybe just help us current to next summer.
Okay.
All the numbers that I'm going to mention to you are this instant's numbers.
No rental growth projection from this point forward okay? At 89% occupancy which is what the portfolio is by the way for another nanosecond because we think there is another 2.5% of leasing coming through immediately.
But at 89% if you took a picture of that it's 5.2% yield if you lease it at today's rent no inflation in rent.
At today's rents up to 95% leasing that number goes up to 5.5% yield.
And that neither one of those two numbers includes land and CIP which are currently non-income producing.
If you throw those in the denominator and say we are not getting any return for $260 million of CIP and $90 million of land the yield goes down to 4.85% yield but that would be kind of a misleading number.
If you then say what happens when you lease up the development that is underway that 5.5% goes up to like a 5.6% because those developments are coming in at a slightly higher yield.
And none of this assumes any rental growth because it is a cap rate.
It is a static measure.
For the more dynamic things we look at IRRs and things like that.
And your next question comes from the line of Craig Mailman from KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Just two follow-ups here.
Tom I was hoping maybe you could give us the number on a cash basis for the U.S.
that kind of equates to the 15.1%.
Then just secondly as we look out maybe five years just curious to the earlier question you guys had talked about the amazon leases.
But just curious if you were to compare PLD’s legacy same store NOI outlook that you guys kind of talk about versus what the KTV would be are the same store kind of outlook similar? Or is this one slightly below where the legacy portfolio would be? I would say this one is slightly above where the legacy portfolio would be because the concentrations of this as I mentioned is about 5 points more in the what we consider the very best markets good demand and supply constraints.
As to when you’re going to get to those rental changes it would be slightly delayed in this portfolio because the weighted average lease term is longer.
So the potential is more here.
You are just going to get to it a little bit later.
But if you took a seven year view it would be higher.
On your second question I don’t have that exact number in front of me but I think it’s going to be something in the 6% to 7% range.
Because we’ve always talked about our GAAP rent spreads in the U.S.
were about 15.1%.
We would see the spread between GAAP and cash at any one point in time average between 600 basis points and 800 basis points.
So I think it will put you in that range.
And our final question comes from the line of Jeff Specter from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Hey thanks.
It’s Jamie again.
Just a couple of quick follow ups.
One the yield you’ve just quoted I mean does that include your fee stream from Norges? No.
So that’s before fees? Yes.
What’s the incremental yield on fees? It is a cap rate so it doesn’t have fees in it.
You can assume that our investment management teams are around 50 basis points of assets under management.
Okay.
Round numbers.
All right great.
And then Tom I guess for the guidance I think you guys took down your strategic capital income.
Can you talk us through that? Yes.
That is all related to FX movements.
About two-thirds of our strategic capital revenues are outside the U.S.
so euro and yen denominated.
So that reflects marking down the revenues to those spot rates today.
Now however but remember we are hedging our net earnings in both euro and yen as well as Sterling.
So even though you are seeing revenues go down you are going to see the offset of that sitting in our income statement in our FX and derivatives line.
That’s where the hedges that are in place sit.
So that’s the benefit.
Likewise we would see some small benefits in G&amp;A for example going the other way because of FX movement.
So bottom line is it’s all FX movements but the offset is all sitting down in the net hedge FX line that you’ll see over the rest of the year.
So no impact on earnings.
Okay great.
I think that was the last question.
So let me summarize the key takeaways from this call.
First and foremost even though we didn’t really talk about it that much we had pretty good earnings in the first quarter we are pleased with it and we think it’s going to continue to get better throughout the year.
But let me just go back to the merger which is now almost four years ago.
We worked very hard to realign our portfolio with our investment strategy to strengthen our balance sheet to create a very attractive currency through our OP unit structure and to form really strong relationships with strategic sources of capital.
That was a lot of hard work but I think that hard work has now positioned us to be a very efficient and effective acquirer of assets.
And the platform is scaled to a level that we can do that with no or minimal incremental additions to our overhead.
So we are very excited about that.
Thank you for participating in our call and we look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Kyle and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the Prologis Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Tracy Ward Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ma'am you may begin your conference.
Thanks Kyle and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our second quarter 2015 conference call.
The supplemental document is available on our website at prologis.com under Investor Relations.
This morning we'll hear from Hamid Moghadam our Chairman and CEO who will comment on our company's strategy and the market environment; and then from Tom Olinger our CFO who'll cover results and guidance.
Also joining us for today's call are Gary Anderson Mike Curless Ed Nekritz Gene Reilly and Diana Scott.
Before we begin our prepared remarks I'd like to state this conference call will contain forward-looking statements under federal securities laws.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates and projections about the market and the industry in which Prologis operates as well as management's beliefs and assumptions.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and actual operating results may be affected by a variety of factors.
For a list of those factors please refer to the forward-looking statement notice in our 10-K or SEC filings.
Additionally our second quarter results press release and supplemental do contain financial measures such as FFO EBITDA that are non-GAAP measures and in accordance with Reg G we have provided a reconciliation to those measures.
With that I'll turn the call over to Hamid and we'll get started.
Hamid? Thanks Tracy and good morning everyone.
We just finished the great quarter and our financial results reflect very favorable market conditions and solid execution by the Prologis team.
In fact this year is shaping up to be one of the strongest in my 35 years in the business.
We're halfway through the three-year plan we outlined for you at our Analyst Day in September of 2013.
Let me take a few moments to highlight our key accomplishments since that date.
Capitalizing on the imminent rental recovery was the most important objective among our three key priorities as outlined in the plan.
Our market rent growth forecast of 20% to 25% between 2013 and 2017 was viewed as quite bold at that time.
Yet with the Americas and Asia slightly ahead of forecast and Europe slightly behind the rent recovery cycle is unfolding pretty much as we expected leading to substantial growth in our earnings.
The strong rental recovery has been particularly pronounced in the U.S.
where the increases are becoming evident in our rent growth and financial results.
Our investment strategy with this focus on global market has enabled us to achieve rent increases of 22% with our share of same-store NOI exceeding 7% in the second quarter.
New supply in the U.S.
continues to be absorbed at a rapid pace driving vacancy down to 15-year lows.
Our forecast calls for declining vacancy rates in the U.S.
through the end of 2016 with supply and demand reaching equilibrium in 2017.
As the largest owner in the sector we're constantly on the lookout for signs of overbuilding as we have a vested interest in preventing oversupply in our markets.
We'll not be shy about sounding the alarm bell at the first sign of undisciplined development.
Don't be surprised if our future spec starts remain flat or even moderate compared to starts this year.
In Europe improved customer sentiment is leading to growth in occupancies and rents especially in the UK and Northern Europe.
Markets in Central and Eastern Europe are also on demand albeit at a slower rate.
Even Southern Europe which has lagged the other regions is showing modest improvement.
The big story in Europe however is continued cap rate compression which began about two years ago.
The rates on the continent have tightened by about 150 basis points since 2013 and we expect them to drop another 50 basis points to 75 basis points over the next 12 months.
In addition appraisals in Europe continue to lag real-time transactions by about 50 basis points.
Turning to Asia rents in Japan are growing at a healthy pace and vacancies are low.
Competition however is seeding up putting pressure on land prices and development margins.
In China procuring land in the top-tier markets remains a challenge but high-quality product continues to lease in line with pro forma.
Our second key priority was to put our land bank to work to realize its embedded value while meeting the needs of our customers.
Midway through our three-year plan we've generated $540 million in value creation or about a $1 per share in NAV on $1.9 billion of stabilizations.
At full build out our land bank can support more than $10 billion of additional development or about four years of activity at our current pace.
Our development margins will remain elevated and our closure rate on built-to-suit is running very high.
We'll remain disciplined with our development starts and expect to create about $400 million or $0.75 a share of incremental NAV annually through our development activity.
Our third priority was to use our scale to grow earnings with minimal incremental overhead.
At this point in the cycle asset growth is likely to come through development and less from pure acquisitions unless of course we're able to capitalize on a competitive advantage in a given situation; for example through the use of appropriately priced OP units.
The KTR transaction is an excellent example of these principles and action.
It's rare to have the opportunity to deliver significant immediate accretion to shareholders by finding a portfolio of such quality which is so consistent with our own.
The KTR transaction reduced our G&amp;A to AUM ratio by more than 15% to 54 basis points.
The continued build-out of our land banks will make us even more efficient as we scale our portfolio organically.
Turning to capital flows globally we see considerable investor demand for high-quality industrial real estate.
In the U.S.
we announced these stabilized cap rates in the mid-to-high 4% range in our best global market.
And as I've mentioned before in Europe cap rates continue to fall as demonstrated by our fund valuations where cap rates compressed by another 30 basis points in the quarter.
Before handling the call over to Tom I'd like to leave you with a couple of thoughts.
The benefits of scale are clear and manifest themselves in important ways such as lower G&amp;A costs lower financing rates and wider array of financing options and a higher share of wallet from key customers.
However size alone does not make us better.
We are better only when we deliver profitably on our objectives.
Over the past several years we've taken great care to position our portfolio to where it is today and we're confident that our efforts will pay off in terms of superior same store NOI growth in the coming years.
Factoring in core FFO growth in 2014 and the midpoint of our 2015 guidance we'll have averaged 15.5% annual FFO growth over this two-year period.
AFFO is growing even at faster rate requiring us to increase our dividends three times over the past 18 months for a cumulative increase of 43%.
With two years of results in we've already surpassed what was considered to be an ambitious three-year plan as presented on that Analyst Day.
With that I'll turn it over to Tom who'll take you through the numbers and guidance.
Thanks Hamid.
We had an outstanding second quarter and strong first half of 2015.
Before I begin with our results I want to remind you that we completed the acquisition of KTR on May 29.
The properties were acquired by USLV our joint venture with Norges.
You'll see the impact run throughout our financial statements since we consolidate this venture.
The portfolio is fully integrated.
The assets have been successfully on-boarded in the day-to-day management of the properties has been transitioned to our regional teams a terrific example of our ability to scale efficiently.
Now let's start with results for the quarter.
Core FFO was $0.52 a share up 8% over Q2 of 2014.
For the first half of the year core FFO was $1.01 per share up 11% over the first half of last year.
Based on feedback we've received from investors and analysts as well as that our share of operations and deployment drives our earnings this will be the focus of our disclosures going forward.
We will however continue to provide owned and managed information in our quarterly supplemental.
Quarter-end occupancy excluding the KTR assets was 95.6% up 100% basis points over the second quarter last year.
The KTR portfolio was 89% occupied at the time we announced the acquisition.
The operations team is making great progress placing this portfolio which was 92% leased at the end of the quarter.
GAAP rent change on rollover was 16.6% and the highest quarterly level we recorded to-date.
Rent change was positive across all regions and led by the U.S.
at 22.2%.
GAAP same-store NOI increased 5.9% in the quarter and was led by the U.S.
at 7.1%.
Now moving to capital deployment for the quarter which again is on an our share basis.
We continue to deliver very profitable developments.
Development stabilizations were $578 million with an estimated margin of over 31% and value creation of $179 million or $0.34 a share.
Development starts totaled $799 million with an estimated margin of 19.6%.
Acquisitions were driven by KTR in total $3.2 billion at a stabilized cap rate of 5.5%.
And contributions and building dispositions totaled $415 million with a stabilized cap rate of 5.9%.
Turning to capital markets we continue to tap the foreign debt markets at very attractive terms.
We completed $3.1 billion of financing activity in the quarter at a weighted average interest rate of 1.6% and term of almost five years.
This included $1.6 billion which was denominated in euro and yen.
Leverage at quarter end was 40.2% on a gross book value basis and $39.2% on total market capitalization basis which is how most REIT's disclose leverage.
Debt-to-adjusted EBITDA and fixed charge coverage excluding realized gains was 7.6 times and 3.7 times for the quarter respectively.
We have approximately $1.3 billion of short-term financing related to KTR consisting of the $1 billion term loans due in 2017 and the remainder on our line.
Our plan is to repay this balance through asset sales and I'll get into the specifics of that in a moment.
We continue to maintain significant liquidity subsequent to the closing of the KTR acquisition with over $2.4 billion at quarter end plus we have no unsecured debt maturities until 2017.
Now let's turn to our outlook and guidance for the year.
For operations we're maintaining our year-end occupancy range of between 95.5% and 96.5% and continue to expect development stabilizations for 2015 of $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion.
We're establishing guidance for our share of GAAP same-store NOI to range between 5% and 5.5%.
Looking forward the majority of our same-store NOI growth will be driven by capturing the current spread between in place and market rents as leases roll.
To put this into perspective even with no further market rent growth our share of same-store NOI in 2016 should grow at about 4% from just capturing today's rent spread.
Our assumption however is that market rents will continue to grow.
We continue to expect net G&amp;A for 2015 to range between $235 million and $245 million.
On the strategic capital front we've increased our expected revenue range to between $200 million and $210 million.
Also included in our guidance is an expected net promote from our PELP venture in the fourth quarter of 2015 of about $0.04.
In terms of capital deployment I'll refer you to our supplemental page eight for detail on our updated guidance ranges and our share of each activity.
You'll note the most significant change is the increase in disposition guidance as well as we believe this is a great time to sell non-strategic assets that we have value maximized.
At the midpoint our share of the expected net deployment for the second half of 2015 is about $350 million proceeds.
But I need to point out that the Morris industrial transaction is included in our acquisition guidance which we will fund with approximately $400 million OP units.
Therefore the total cash net deployment proceeds for the second half will be approximately $750 million.
Now let me spend a minute discussing the plan to permanently capitalize KTR and focus on three aspects.
First we will retire the short-term KTR borrowings of $1.3 billion through a combination of dispositions and contributions primarily in the U.S.
and Europe.
With the proceeds generated in the back half of this year we will repay approximately 60% of this balance and take our leverage to roughly 37%.
We'll complete the remainder of the plan in the first half of next year to fully retire the KTR borrowings and fund our development needs.
At that point our leverage would be in the mid 30%s in line with our target credit metrics and on a path to an A rating.
Second this plan does not assume any sell down of our fund interest.
The reason we've prioritized dispositions in this plan is because we expect substantial increases in European valuations over the next year.
Since the downturn we have opportunistically acquired additional interest in many of our ventures particularly in Europe.
As a result we are well above our long-term ownership target of 20% and giving us significant financial capacity.
For example reducing our interest to this level in our ventures would generate upwards of $3 billion of capital at today's values providing substantial embedded liquidity optionality and capacity to fund our capital needs beyond the conclusion of this plan.
Third given our confidence in this plan and the embedded capacity within these ventures we have no need to issue equity as it'd generate excess liquidity based on our current deployment outlook and is also consistent with our view of attaining an A rating.
Putting our guidance all together we're increasing the midpoint of our 2015 core FFO which we now expect to range between $2.18 and $2.22 per share.
This represents 17% year-over-year growth or an increase of $0.32 at the midpoint of our guidance which follows 14% growth last year.
As Hamid mentioned our AFFO is growing faster than our core FFO in 2015 and as a result we announced an increase in our third quarter dividend to $0.40 a share.
In closing we had a great quarter and our outlook for our business is equally as strong.
With that I'll turn the call over to the operator for questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa from Evercore ISI.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning.
Tom I was just wondering if you could provide a little more clarity on I guess the cap rates that you might expect a range of cap rates from the asset sales to fund the KTR deal? I'm just trying to think about maybe what the negative arbitrage would be between what you bought KTR for and the cap rates on dispositions? The cap rates are going to be on average; again you need to think about this as just being not only dispositions but contributions.
I think overall you're going to see those be in the mid-to-high – the low 5%s on contributions all the way up to the – maybe the mid-to-high 6% on some dispositions.
When you blend that all together one thing you need to take into consideration though is when we contribute assets for funds we also get incremental fees which certainly offsets the dilution.
The other thing is Steve there's some land sales as well in that and of course the cap rate on land sales is zero.
So I think it will end up being in the mid-to-high 5%s when you blend it all together.
Your next question comes from the line of George Auerbach from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning.
Tom with KTR closed can you now talk more specifically about which portfolios or the overall size of the assets that you have in the market for sale in the U.S.
and Europe to fund KTR? And in addition can you just clarify your comment on PELP the sell-down? It sounded to me like from your comments that we should no longer expect a sell-down of PELP this year.
That's correct.
So to be clear our plans is not – our plan to permanently finance the KTR outstanding balance of $1.3 billion assumes no sell-down in our European ventures.
And again as I mentioned the reason we're focusing on dispositions and contributions for this plan is because we expect substantial cap rate compression in Europe over the next year and as we look at how we're value maximizing assets on sale we're prioritizing dispositions and contributions.
The other thing I would add to that is actually selling in our funds would be the easiest execution that we have out there because really all we got to do is look at the NAV at the end of the quarter based on appraisals and make a phone call to actually to get that done.
So there is very little execution risk on that.
It's just that as I mentioned to you there is a lag in cap rates from reality.
There's about 50 basis points of lag between appraised cap rates and reality in the marketplace and we think the reality of the marketplace is poised for further compression.
So yes we could go do the easy thing and put this thing to bed tomorrow but we'd be leaving about 100 basis points of value on the table and we have lots of other ways of getting to the same place.
But we have this as a plan B with $3 billion of cushion.
So we're not losing a lot of sleep over this.
This is Mike.
In terms of the geographic distribution of the portfolios that we currently have in the marketplace or will have very shortly out there it's a good spread of about a dozen markets some global markets as well as some regional markets.
I think it's a good mix of product that'd be attractive to what we're seeing as a very large buyer pool out there.
And in terms of pricing we have high expectations given the outstanding cap rates we're seeing now in the U.S.
It's a really good time to put incremental portfolios out in the market and we're bullish on our ability to get that done by year end.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Mailman from KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Just want to follow-up on the disposition theme here.
Looking at where you guys are trading relative to private market cap rates just thoughts on ramping the disposition program even further to potentially buy back stock.
Well one thing at a time.
I mean first our dispositions I want to emphasize the plan – the disposition plan actually has nothing to do with KTR.
We would have sold these very same properties as the final step in the clean-up of our portfolio to align it with our strategy just like the properties we sold in 2011 2012 and 2013 and 2014.
So it's just basically the last phase of that.
So KTR other than a few properties out of KTR itself does not really impact our disposition plan.
It's business as usual.
It happens to coincide with paying off the financing that we took on in connection with KTR.
But that's just coincidental.
So that's the way we're looking at financing our business and any of you guys have anything else to add to that? Your next question comes from the line of Vance Edelson from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
You mentioned that the development margin should remain elevated.
Could you comment on development yields by market first across the U.S.? We've heard there are some cities where it could be as low as 4% others more like 6% or higher.
And then if you could also provide the international color on the build yields as well.
Thanks.
Gene will address that question.
I did not address one part of Craig's question which is on stock buyback.
Look we're going to continue to execute on our disposition plan and also the fund sell-down to align with what our long-term ownership plans are in those funds.
Obviously we'll be in a substantially liquid position.
We'll be a lot more liquid than what we need to achieve our A rating.
And that capital is available for all kinds of purposes including potentially stock buyback but we are nine months to a year away from that because that would be the last thing we would execute on.
So depends on where the stock sits at that point in time and right now we think our priority should be selling our non-strategic assets and paying off the financing associated with KTR and the stock buybacks are something that will come later and we'll have the capacity to do a lot of that obviously.
So this whole issue of equity issuance which is – everybody keeps worrying and talking about honestly we don't get it because the problem we're trying to solve is excess liquidity not a lack of liquidity.
Gene you want to start? Yeah yeah with respect to the development margin so the U.S.
will be sort of high teens and as we've said that we're going to remain elevated in margins I would say at least over the next 12 months that I could see.
In terms of where that actual returns on cost are I mean it really range from the mid to high 5%s in LA for example if you were to do a build to suit in a 4.5% cap rate environment it could be that low and they range into the mid 7% depending on U.S.
market.
So if you look at Mexico you're going to be in low to mid 8%s and then of course in Brazil you're going to be in the 10% to 13% in terms of return on cost.
Our development yields in Europe Continental Europe I'd say 7% 7.5% something like that in the UK probably in the 5% to 6% range depending on the market.
Obviously if you're in the London market it's going to be lower than if you're up in the Midlands.
In China I'd say they're close to the same as Continental Europe probably in that 7% 7.5% range and then Japan obviously lower than that 5.5% to 6%.
But again we expect yields to be pretty healthy for the foreseeable future cap rates are compressing in Europe and values are strong in Asia.
And our land bank is still – books substantially less than fair value.
Your next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning.
I wanted to ask about the dividend raise.
Your AFFO Hamid I think you mentioned has grown pretty nicely grown faster than FFO and probably somewhere around $1.80 or $1.85 share annually.
So you've got nice coverage relative to the dividend but you guys do capitalize G&amp;A into development so that doesn't hit the P&amp;L and then you capitalize some interest expense as well.
And we're at a good point in the business cycle.
But if development slows down and you start to expense some of those costs that are capitalized do you still feel like you'd have solid coverage of the dividend at $1.60 relative to an AFFO number if you had to expense a few more of those items? Yeah.
Hey Brendan.
Brendan this is Tom.
So absolutely we have very strong coverage when you look at where our payout ratios are we look at this with realized gains because that's TI and that's got to go out the door or a proportion of it does.
So we're in a low 60% payout ratio.
If you want to exclude realized gains which we don't look at but we would be in the mid to high 80%s exactly where we've been long-term after this divined raise.
So we feel good about our coverage.
We actually need to raise our dividend not only – we're not trying to just meet our payout ratios or our target we're really trying to make sure we're paying out the statutory minimum.
So we've got TI pressure that we need to increase – continue to increase the dividend to make sure we're getting the right amount of TI dividends out the door.
Now on your question about capitalized cost to put in perspective we'll capitalize about $70 million of development overhead this year and maybe $65 million of capped interest.
So when you look at that $70 million against midpoint of starts for $2.6 billion that's about 2.6% or 2.7%.
So it's a fairly conservative cap – fairly conservative capitalization ratio when you think about what is actually out in the marketplace.
So even if you would cut those capitalized costs by $10 million or $20 million which is I think would be a pretty substantial cut that would have a very minimal impact on our AFFO given the nominal amount of AFFO that we have out there.
So bottom-line we feel really good about our coverage and in that scenario I don't think it would materially cover – materially impact our dividend payout ratio particularly as we look at our growth prospects going forward from rents rolling to market.
Hey Brendan can I give you one little other piece of color.
I mean we've got a big advantage in that we're a global developer and we've talked about this in the past.
Look at the spread of our development activity it is very broad and there's one building per market we've got – we're building in each one of the geographies $2.5 billion of development spend is not a big deal for us we can certainly do more but we have the advantage of literally picking the markets that we want to develop in.
So I think $2.5 billion run rate is a pretty safe rate.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Frankel from Green Street Advisors.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
I wanted to touch upon the operating portfolio a little bit.
First I'm not sure do you ever mention what your cash releasing spreads were by market? And second regarding releasing spreads which markets benefited the most? Were there global markets were there more of the regional markets or just like to get a little bit of more color on that.
Thank you.
Eric I'll take the cash rent change on rollover question.
So I did not mention it but the cash rent change on rollover was about 4.5% for the quarter as compared to the GAAP rent change.
Now that's spread a little wider than what we've had in the past but what's happening is given the significant spread between market and rolling rents our customers are asking for help to mitigate really the sticker shock that's happening with the significant rise in market rates just look at this quarter alone.
In the U.S.
we saw 23% increase in spot rates to rolling rates and as a result we're trying to help customers ease into these higher rents with escalations and really just in the initial part of the lease.
So that's why it's really important to look at the net effect of rents calculation because that captures the economics of the overall lease.
Looking at the cash rent change you pick up just that spot change from the last lease to the initial lease which clearly doesn't represent the economics of what you're signing up for.
So we focus on the GAAP net effective.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee from Stifel.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thank you.
Here's my question I'm trying to get to the bottom of it is you've got great same-store NOI growth.
You've got excellent mark-to-market.
You have a good value creation and development pipeline.
But if I look at PLD at a 5% fixed cap rate your per share in 2013 was $46.80 and your per share (31:07) for 2015 is $47.70 which is less than a dollar of value creation from 2013 to 2015.
So I can't quite see where the leakage is and do you guys have any explanation for that? I'm not sure how that math works John.
I mean the NOI number is growing.
If you're taking the same cap rate and applying it actually interest rates are increasing so the mark-to-market on the debt should be getting smaller and we're creating $400 million of NAV though the development process every year.
So I got to look at the detailed math of what you're talking about but I'm not sure I totally understand it.
There is some degree of FX factored into that but again most of that is mitigated because of the fact that we have matched liabilities with our assets overseas.
So I mean I can't do that math for you right now but would be happy to take you through that analysis.
By our estimation our NAV should grow by about a $1 a share a little less than a $1 a share though the development activity and in the foreseeable future we see earnings growth in the low-double digit range and probably even 10% just to pick an easy number.
So that'd be $3 to $4 of NAV growth.
So I don't know what you're doing with your math but happy to take a look at it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Am I still on the line? You are.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Oh this math just comes from page 34 to 36 from your NAV.
This is not anything I'm doing creatively or uniquely.
I'm just tracking your NAV as presented in your supplemental every quarter for the last three or four years.
Well the other piece of it John would be the cap rate that you're assuming as well on that NOI.
There's definitely been cap rate compression over the last 12 months for sure.
And I don't know if you're using a constant cap rate or what you're doing.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Burke from Goldman Sachs.
Good morning guys.
I wanted to ask about your leverage mix.
Obviously you're able to issue a lot of debt this quarter at a very low rate.
Just want to get an update on how you're thinking about the mix of floating rate in non-U.S.
dollar denominated debt versus where you're at today? Brad this is Tom.
So today we're at about – in the high teens on variable rate debt.
Prior to the KTR funding we were in the high-single digits.
We're going to get back to that high-single digit range once we complete the permanent funding plan and with selling dispositions and contributions that will fund this.
So we'll get back down to that range.
Our bias is to go long and to fix as much interest as we can at this point just given where rates are.
Regarding the mix of foreign currency debt versus U.S.
dollar debt based on where our U.S.
dollar net equity is we're at about at 90.6% at the end of this quarter once we complete the KTR plan we're going to be pushing more of the middle middle 90%s of U.S.
dollar net equity.
So we don't have really any room today to move up our proportionate of foreign dollar debt.
Going forward we will do our best to match fund our foreign-denominated asset growth with foreign-denominated debt.
Your next question comes from line of Dave Rodgers from Baird.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes good morning guys.
Maybe for Mike a question on construction cost.
Can you talk about what you're seeing in terms of the construction cost components increasing? And maybe a second part to that is how do you see construction cost keeping pace with rent growth here particularly in the U.S.
in the near-term? Dave in terms of construction costs we're seeing there has been increases in the U.S.
over the last couple of years in the 3% to 4% range perhaps as high as 5% in select markets where competition is more intense.
For the most part in the global markets we're seeing rents outpace that that's why you're seeing some construction that you are from a supply standpoint.
Going forward we anticipate that moderating a bit maybe into the 2% or 3% range but I think there is still some pretty significant competition for construction services given the heavy load of development activity that's out there.
And in Europe I'd just say we haven't really seen significant construction cost increases because there isn't a lot of development going on today maybe just a bit.
China we're seeing some small increases as supply continues to move forward and Japan is the interesting one.
Japan we had a spike right when the 2020 Olympics were announced and then it peaked and it basically stopped.
And we think that as you get closer to the 2020 Olympics you're going to see construction cost increases in Japan.
At the same time today we're seeing land increases very significant land increases in Japan.
So I think that underpins a pretty healthy story for rent growth in Japan over the next several years.
And land is increasing pretty much across the board in the U.S.
along with entitlement cost.
So while construction increases have been moderate we think they're going to outpace inflation.
Overall replacement costs are going up pretty rapidly.
Your next question comes from the line of Vin Chao from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning everyone.
I just want to go back to the rent spreads here which were quite strong in the quarter accelerated from the first quarter.
But I think when they were talked about originally there was some negative mix in the first half more European leasing than in the second half.
Just curious if that maybe didn't play out the way you thought and that was part of the reason why we saw such strength in the first half spreads or if that's still going to be a positive tailwind to you in the back half and if you could maybe quantify that how that mix is changing? Vince this is Tom.
We've really normalized the mix starting in Q2.
Q1 we were – and part of last year as you point out we were more heavily weighted towards Europe and particularly Southern Europe and Central and Eastern Europe so it's moderated.
So that would be one thing.
And then second would just be the strength of the U.S.
markets and the proportion of leasing with the U.S.
markets driving these returns.
So going forward I think we'll expect – I don't foresee any real mix issues like we had in the past with Europe with U.S.
being disproportionally different.
Your next question comes from the line of Manny Korchman from Citi.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey guys good morning.
If we could just go back to your earlier comment on cap rates compressing in Europe and your hesitation to sell there at the moment can you balance that against A your acquisition plans for the rest of the year maybe into next year and how much of that will be in Europe? And B how you get comfort (38:47) buying in the U.S.
and selling in the U.S.
at the same time? Well from a mix standpoint if you look at our acquisitions this year it's very much – you really need to look at the remainder of the year.
It is weighted towards the U.S.
and the Morris industrial transaction which we agreed upon pricing there probably six to nine months ago.
So from that standpoint we are focusing on – that's a big driver of the U.S.
as well as we do have some U.S.
1031 activity going forward.
When it looks about balancing buying in the U.S.
versus Europe we're always looking at the relative returns and the overall growth profile of what we're buying and what we're selling.
And as – looking at the KTR portfolio in particular very high quality portfolio that we expect to perform right in line with the rest of our U.S.
portfolio.
Look at how our U.S.
portfolio is performing right now.
We expect the KTR portfolio similar quality to perform equally as well.
I think that is a big testament to why we wanted to buy that portfolio.
The only comment I'd make with respect to Europe is as Tom said in his prepared remarks we've obviously increased our ownership position in our funds that's the best acquisition that can make.
Over the last several years we've been buying portfolios and as we've told you there well we'd like to buy more in Europe there aren't a lot of portfolios to buy so we're focusing our time on those one-off acquisitions and those value-add deals and you can see it coming through in our numbers.
We did two building acquisitions one in Prague and one in Netherlands in the second quarter and a total of $144 million year-to-date.
If we could get more in Europe and it was good quality stuff we would do that.
At the same time we will be selling non-strategic assets in Europe when we feel like they're value maximized.
So we are going to be both buyer and seller in a market like this.
And rounding out the activity in the U.S.
the majority of it outside of the large portfolios of Morris and KTR are the value-add acquisitions in U.S.
as well where our local teams identify those those aren't subject to the same pricing pressures in general that we see on the larger portfolios and it's a way we keep our acquisition activity strong in U.S.
more on a case-by-case project-by-project basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim from SunTrust Robinson.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
So Hamid maybe we can go back to the earlier conversation regarding capital deployment and KTR.
And I think I heard you correctly when you said that you didn't fully understand the market's reaction to equity overhang risk some of the things that you've heard from the buy side.
If you could reflect on just what has happened in the past four months or so with the KTR deal what are some of the things that you possibly learned or maybe you could have done differently maybe a forward equity issuance or maybe just a whole host of things that you could have done differently or not.
I was just curious what your reflections are regarding that and how your stock price reacted post the deal and what feedback you received from investors? Okay.
That's a really good question.
The thing that I learned is that you can be totally honest with people in the way you present something.
And in the interest of being super honest and straightforward with people you could convey an impression that could be really inaccurate.
So let me elaborate.
Every M&amp;A deal that a company does they talk about its accretion using the capital structure that will be deployed immediately to fund that acquisition which in our case is 1.5% debt.
And we should have come out maybe and said this deal is not only NAV neutral because we're buying in the (42:51) market but it is accretive to the tune of 15% or some crazy number like that because we're financing it on the margin with 1.5% debt.
And that would have been the least if you will honest thing – honest way we could have portrayed it.
So we elected not to do that.
We used the word this is how accretive it is on a leverage neutral basis.
And I think the market read that as we are immediately going to finance this on a leverage neutral basis and I think it created an overhang.
I mean remember we own a lot of the stock.
We're not selling our stock at a 10% discount or now 20% discount to real estate value just to buy fully-priced real estate.
We get that math.
I mean come on guys we've been doing this for a while okay.
So clearly that is not what we intended to do.
We know all the sources that we have.
We know how much non-strategic assets we have that we're going to have to sell anyway whether we do KTR or not.
Sure we have to sell a few more with KTR because as we've mentioned to you about 5% of KTR is long-term non-strategic.
So yeah we're going to sell our non-strategic assets and that happens to fully fund this transaction over a 12-month period and to us that's very comfortable.
We are committed to our single A rating but that doesn't mean we need to achieve it tomorrow.
We're heading in that direction.
We are not telling you different story to the rating agencies that we're telling to the equity holders all of what we've told you has been consistent and in my belief presented in the most responsible way possible.
But I think the issue about the leverage neutral language and the talking about the timing that was assumed that we're going to get this in balance right this second half after it closes.
I think we're actually misinterpreted by the market and we'll take the responsibility for that miscommunication.
But the reality is we'll clearly fund this transaction within a year.
Our leverage ratios will be back in line consistent with that single A rating and above and beyond this we've got about $3 billion in effect equity firepower sitting in our funds that once those funds and ventures are valued properly particularly in Europe because of continued cap rate compression and closure of that appraisal lag.
We'll take advantage of those in a way that it matches with our needs – with our capital needs.
So we don't have a big capital drag on our income statement.
I hope that clarifies.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum from UBS.
Your line is up.
Hi thanks.
Hamid you had commented that we shouldn't be surprised if the development pipeline stabilizes or goes down as we look out over the next few years.
I'm going to assume that we should also expect the same from the land bank but perhaps you could comment a little more is there any expectation the market should have that the land bank could really move down beyond what happens to the development pipeline just so that you get more of these non-income producing assets off your book so that your earnings multiple isn't negatively impacted by that? Sure that's a really good question.
To be perfectly candid with you not all of our land is strategic.
In fact we've quantified classified about $400 million of our land as non-strategic meaning that we don't intend to develop it either somebody else is going to develop it or we'll sell it to user or something like that.
So of our book value of land bank that you see today $400 million of it should not be there and we're going to sell that no matter what and not replace it with anything else.
So the land bank for sure would come down.
Then in a normal market we will be acquiring land at the same rate as we'll be putting land into production.
We'll reach some level of equilibrium at some point.
Our best guess is that in that situation we would have a $1.2 billion $1.3 billion of land which is about two years of development at the run rate of $2.5 billion and the math on that is pretty simple.
Two years of $2.5 billion development is $5 billion and land is about 25% of the total.
So that gets you to about $1.250 billion of land that we need to carry around here.
And so if you want to be in the development business and generate whatever we generated I think it was 17 unleveraged by IRRs over a period of 15 years you've got to have land.
The unfortunate thing as you all know in our business we don't get to cap that as earnings and that's fine because I think when industry counted that as earnings bad things happened.
So we're good but it's real money.
It's real cash that comes in the bank in the company and it's real NAV that's created and we can patient to realize that value.
So the bottom line is we like the development business.
You have to have some land to account for it to be able to play in that business.
It's the highest rate of return business we have but we have too much land in relation to our development volume going forward.
As to my comment that we're going to moderate it is that look four years ago five years ago before there was a development business in the depth of the crisis we told all of you that our annual development volume is going to normalize from $2 billion to $3 billion a year globally and in some markets and in sometimes it's going to get closer to $3 billion and in sometimes it's going to get closer to $2 billion.
And I guess what I'm saying is that it's been going steadily up in the last three or four years and now it's about $2.6 billion $2.7 billion.
Don't be surprised if that comes down to $2.4 billion $2.5 billion or something like.
I mean that's very normal and we're going to bounce around numbers like that going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Feldman from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Great thank you.
I'm here with Jeff Spector as well.
Can you just talk a little bit about the KTR yields and how they came in or how they are coming in versus your original expectations? I think on the first quarter call you guys had said the in place was a 5.2% cash this stabilized was a 5.5% and if you backed out the CIP in land it's a 4.85%.
And along the same lines if you look at there was an occupancy dip across the portfolio in the second quarter can you talk about how much of that was KTR versus the rest of your portfolio and what gives you comfort on getting to the guidance you've laid out which is at least a 10 basis point growth if not more? Yeah.
So Jamie.
It's Gene.
I think KTR had a 20 basis point effect globally.
But let me get to your yield.
So things are playing out as expected if anything the rents we're getting on new leases.
And by the way we've signed about 40 leases since we've announced this transaction about 2.5 million square feet in that portfolio but we're right out of 5.5% yield on a stabilized basis.
So this is the same way we describe any acquisition.
So that's 95% occupancy.
At 89% you're correct it was around a 5.2% but we're already at 92% leased in this portfolio.
And our plan is to be just under 95% by the end of the year.
So we're a little ahead of schedule relative to the 12-months timeframe that we outlined to get KTR in line with the rest of the U.S.
portfolio or said another way around 96%.
So hopefully that clears up the yield.
I mean I see upsides in the yields because the rents coming in a little better than we expected.
Jamie on your point about the 4.9% cap rate.
I think you meant to say that if you include the land in the CIP in addition to the operating assets the yield would be 4.9%.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Mailman from KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hello.
Can you hear me? Go ahead Craig.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey it's Jordan Sadler here with Craig.
Just a clarification.
Can you – are you saying that and I think I understand the sentiment but there's no equity in the plan any longer.
I think last call and where some of the confusion came in was Tom you gave the example on a leverage neutral basis talking about the issuance of potentially $1.5 billion of equity.
So obviously there's some communication about that ultimate financing which I know I now understand was not imminent necessarily in terms of how you were trying to communicate it.
But now you're saying the plan just does not assume equity this is going to be done through asset sales.
If I may take that question because it's my bad more than company's or Tom.
I think we laid out alternative financing plans for you.
I think we laid out three financing plans and one of them included equity and two of them did not include equity.
And we wanted to be – we wanted to give you the bookends of what could happen in terms of financing this deal.
Our current plan and the one that we're executing right now assumes no equity the only equity that exists is in effect the OP units that are part of the Morris transaction that go with the Morris acquisition.
I mean if you want to really define equity in a broad way and just by way of reminder the valuation of that equity is fixed at where our NAV was on whatever we negotiated that deal about a year ago.
It's $43.11 which by the way after discount issuance discounts and all that is equivalent of $45 a share.
So that's the only equity that's ever been in the plan before or after KTR and there is none contemplated in the current plan.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee from Stifel.
You line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes on a lighter note going back to Europe I've been watching the Tour de France almost every night and I have yet to see a PLD roof or a PLD sponsor on any of the teams.
Are you guys doing that this year over there? (54:25) It's too expensive John.
It's too expensive to get your name on that – on those jerseys as you know so we're going to keep our money for dividend growth but...
Strategic Planning and Analysis Prologis Inc.</span></strong> You may see something on the roofs though.
Yeah so John you asked a good question and Tim Arndt our Treasurer has been actually trying to reconcile the numbers for you so instead of waiting I think he is prepared to talk about it right now.
So let's answer your last question now.
Strategic Planning and Analysis Prologis Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Hey John.
I'm guessing I think between the two periods you described you're seeing if we look at (55:02) I believe you're holding cap rates constant understand that; the NOI growth is flowing through; you're probably seeing an addition of something like $3 to $4 a share on that basis and I'm guessing you're also seeing something on the order of $1.50 a share in terms of development value creation added over that period.
I think the components you're missing are we had about a $1 come through the way we present our NAV in the supplemental what would appear to be loss from debt extinguishment which is a temporary phenomena we bear those debt premiums initially and we earn them back in a period of about two to three years through lower interest expense subsequently.
So that'll be coming back through the NAV statements through about 2018 2019.
The other component that would deserve acknowledgment is it's really 2013 when we got ahead of all of our hedging and debt placements and until that got up and running it's a fact that we probably saw about $1 to $1.50 of NAV loss before that program got completed.
If you looked at what we did in terms of bond financing in the euro market as that market opened up that principally got done in 2014.
So you know we're fully hedged now we won't see any further loss from FX in NAV today and we'll earn the debt extinguishment back in about two to three years.
And John so that you understand the strategy behind the timing of that euro match funding.
The time we did the merger 40% of Prologis' equity was in foreign currencies – I mean I'm sorry in U.S.
dollar.
60% of Prologis' equity was in foreign dollars and to that date we had – certainly I had not ever heard a single call about currency exposure in this company.
One of our first objectives the day the transaction closed that we said we're going to neutralize and insulate this company against currency movement.
But we couldn't do it immediately because remember the PEPR was a big component.
We had to bring PEPR in and then recapitalize it with PELP all that stuff until we could get all the puppies in the right pond we couldn't really refinance the transaction.
So as soon as we got these pieces in the right buckets we basically executed on our immunization strategy on FX which is – it's really like debt extinguishment.
Basically you had an FX hit upfront and you're going to earn it back over time in terms of earnings and matching on the debt side.
So if we hadn't done that at that time the launch that Tim just qualified for you for $1.50 would have been in excess of $5 a share.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Frankel from Green Street Advisors.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for all the questions.
Tom not to beat a dead horse but regarding the releasing spreads could you clarify what the average rent bumps you're getting on new leases? Second regarding disposition plans how many market exits do you guys plan over the next year or so? And then third related to the KTR deal it looks like New Jersey had the biggest dip in occupancy so just want to understand if there's any particular buildings that need to get leased up? Thank you.
Eric I'll take the first part of that.
So our bumps over the life of the lease really aren't changing on a long-term basis.
What's really happening is the initial rent in this call it the first maybe six months of leases that are getting stepped up.
So instead of walking somebody to market day one the sticker shock that is happening tenants would like to walk into that say over three months or six months.
So that initial rent you're not seeing the full mark-to-market day one but you are going to see it over the next quarter or two.
Eric let me give you an example.
And this is real life and during this past quarter we had like a dozen examples like this.
So put yourself in a tenant's position you're paying $3 a foot in rent and the market rent today is $5.
That exists all over the United States okay? That's real sticker shock and we may cut a deal at $5 flat okay in which case you'd have a 66% cash rent change or you may say all right we're going to give you $3 for the first year then it's $5 then it's $6.25 for the next two years.
That's a 0% cash rent change.
And that second deal has a higher net present value to us.
So it's – the problem with this statistic is that in volatile periods on the upward cycle and the downward cycle it doesn't really tell the whole story.
Yeah with all due respect and we should stick to real estate which is our business and leave analytics to you guys.
But in any asset class where the duration of the leases is longer than one year the concept of cash to cash comparison becomes a little problematic.
In apartments and hotels that – or whatever – that concept works just fine because there is no profile through the term of the lease.
But the minute you get into four or five year leases you can do all kinds of shapes of leasing with different present value implications that will affect that number but really doesn't affect the effective rent.
But we'll continue to report it and I'm sure you'll continue to look at it but honestly in the way we run our business we're not that focused on that number.
Yes we could also make our teams confirmed to a policy that would make us look better but I want to do that.
I want these guys to do smart deals based on what the market gives them.
So your other question was on New Jersey.
So we have 750 000 square foot development go into the operating pool this quarter and that really is the driver of the occupancy.
With respect to that building we've good activity one it.
We're not really worried about it and New Jersey overall has frankly had quite a bit of construction over the last year but that's very much moderated not much in the pipeline.
So we feel good about that market long-term but it's that development that was pulled into the pool that caused that.
And it was a Prologis development not a KTR development.
Correct.
Your next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
A follow-up for Tom.
So the property operating margin in the quarter was pretty high.
It was close to 73% which I think is one of the highest that you guys have had in Q2 for the past several years and was up sequentially from Q1 pretty materially even though occupancy levels were down.
Just wondering if there was anything unusual that hit this quarter such that the operating margin might be impacted from the run rate – from the Q2 level for the back half of the year or as we think about it for 2016? Nothing unusual that would move that materially.
We're – just given where occupancies are trending right very high and where we're seeing – revenues are certainly growing a heck of a lot faster than expenses and occupancy is going up so our operating leverage is increasing meaningfully and that is what's going to drive that margin.
Your next question comes from the line of Sumit Sharma from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Sorry no questions.
They've all been asked.
Thanks Great.
I think that was the last question.
Again I want to thank you for participating.
We're really feeling good about our business and we are not taking our eye off the risks that are entailed in our business.
So – and rest assured we are vigilant but excited about finally having our day in the sun.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Suzanne and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I’d like to welcome everyone to the Prologis Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Ms.
Tracy Ward Senior Vice President of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thanks Suzanne and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our third quarter 2015 conference call.
The supplemental document is available on our website at prologis.com under Investor Relations.
This morning we’ll hear from Hamid Moghadam our Chairman and CEO who will comment on the company’s strategy and the market environment; and then from Tom Olinger our CFO who’ll cover results and guidance.
Also joining us for today’s call are Gary Anderson Mike Curless Ed Nekritz Gene Reilly and Diana Scott.
Before we begin our prepared remarks I’d like to state that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements under federal securities laws.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates and projections about the market and the industry in which Prologis operates as well as management’s beliefs and assumptions.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and actual operating results may be affected by a variety of factors.
For a list of those factors please refer to the forward-looking statement notice in our 10-K or SEC filings.
Additionally our third quarter earnings press release and supplemental do contain financial measures such as FFO and EBITDA that are non-GAAP measures and in accordance with Reg G we have provided a reconciliation to those measures.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Hamid and we’ll get started.
Thanks Tracy and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our third quarter call.
Let me start with some brief introductory comments and I’ll turn it over to Tom for more details on the quarter.
In most markets business just keeps getting better.
The operating environment is stronger than I’ve ever witnessed in the U.S.
In Europe rents are flat and occupancies are trending up cap rates continue to compress.
Let me call out Paris as the only major submarket in Europe that I can think off.
In Japan we have a mixed picture.
Development is up 26% but surprisingly sentiment is strong and there’s quite a bit of preleasing rents remain strong.
China is slowing but less than the media headline suggest.
In fact the business relating to this domestic consumption is very strong and it’s only the export locations that are experiencing some softness.
In Brazil demand for industrial real estate is holding up despite a weak overall economy.
Overall I would summarize demand as being ahead of our expectations and supply below.
We’re seeing bidding words between customers for space something we hadn’t seen in many many years.
As the difference between in-place and market rents widened there is a multiyear driver of NOI growth that’s created which is almost independent of market rent growth assumptions from here on now.
All of these factors have led to very strong financial results for the quarter and the year so far.
I want to address the issue of supply because I get a lot of questions on this.
We just came from ULI in San Francisco and I must say that the memories of the great recession are quite fresh.
The toll that it took on real estate will not be forgotten soon.
Nobody seems to want to go there again and all of us are looking for sustained long-term growth in rents.
While it’s the best of times in our industry our takeaway is that the tone is very conservative in our new development.
Customers on the other hand are pressing us for more space to fulfill their needs.
We get hurt this over and over again at our recent Customer Advisory Meeting in New York.
We said we’d be vigilant on supply and in that vein I’d like to call out Houston as a market that has the potential for getting overbuilt.
There are 7 million feet of construction coming online mostly in the port market and 3 million square feet of that is spec.
So that’s a market we are watching very carefully.
Globally we’re cautious with our development starts particularly on the spec side because supply and demand are not closer to equilibrium.
On the other hand our built to suit volume has moved up from the low-30% range of total starts in 2014 to the low-40% in 2015 and we’ve had some major wins with companies such as Menlo Logistics and BMW.
Bottom line there’s quite a bit of discipline around spec development and our focus remains on profitability and markets.
Let me talk a bit about the investment sales market.
We’re still living in an era of wallet capital being interested in real estate.
Demand is robust for high quality well located industrial assets.
We’re confident we’ll be able to meet our disposition goals the majority of that work is well underway.
In the long-term our emphasis is going to shift to calling the portfolio when appropriate.
Most of the heavy lifting is behind us.
Let me give you an update on KTR and its impact on our overall operations.
The KTR portfolio is exceeding our expectations.
We’re leasing at the higher than expected rent and on pace with our projections.
While bigger isn’t always better the benefits of scale are becoming increasingly clear.
We’ve grown our market-leading positions around the world in many locations.
But perhaps the most important thing is that we’re driving G&amp;A down.
The transaction has allowed us to reduce our G&amp;A as a percent of assets under management from 65 basis points last year to about 55 basis points this year.
With that let me turn it over to Tom for the details on the quarter.
Thanks Hamid.
Operating results and cash flow growth remains strong and we’re generating significant value creation through development stabilizations and VAC dispositions.
I’ll start with our Q3 results.
We generated core FFO of $0.58 a share up 21% over the third quarter of last year.
Occupancy excluding the KTR portfolio was 96.2% up 60 basis points sequentially.
This is essentially at an all-time high.
The team is making great progress on the KTR portfolio which was over 93% leased and had releasing spreads of 20% exceeding both our underwriting and the remainder of our U.S.
portfolio.
Our share of GAAP rent change was 12% driven by the U.S.
at 16.4%.
GAAP same-store NOI continue to improve as our share increased to 6.2% in the quarter again driven by the U.S.
at 8%.
In the third quarter the amortization of lease intangibles from the merger which has been negatively impacting GAAP NOI since that time finally fully burned off.
This has had a positive impact of about 100 basis points on GAAP same-store for the quarter.
We expect the impact for the year on same-store to be about 50 basis points from this burn off of the intangible asset consistent with what we outlined at our investor event last fall.
Regarding cash same-store NOI growth we would expect it to converge with GAAP during the back-half of next year.
Moving to capital activity year-to-date our share of dispositions and contributions totaled $1.7 billion at a 4.8% stabilized cap rate generating over $210 million of realized development gains and $165 million of value creation from VACs.
Pricing on our third quarter activity was equally strong at 4.9%.
The profitability of our overall development program continues to be outstanding.
Year-to-date we’ve stabilized $1.4 billion of developments at a 34% margin generating about $460 million of NAV accretion or about $0.86 per share.
Let’s switch to 2015 guidance.
I’ll highlight only the key points here so for a complete detail please see page 8 of our supplemental.
We’re increasing the bottom end of our year-end occupancy guidance with the range now between 96% and 96.5%.
Our share of GAAP same-store NOI growth for the year remains unchanged at between 5% and 5.5%.
We now expect net G&amp;A to come in lower for the year ranging between $235 million and $240 million a decrease of 4% at the midpoint over last year.
At the same time assets under management have grown by 13%.
For strategic capital we continue to expect a net promote from our PELP venture in the fourth quarter of about $0.04 a share.
We are nearing the range of our development starts to between – to be between $2.5 billion and $2.6 billion.
The slight decline is timing related as some build to suit activity moved to Q1.
But having said that and as Hamid mentioned we are being diligent with speculative starts so don’t be surprised the total starts next year are flat or slightly down.
We’re focused on profitability not trying to reach a volume number.
We’re seeing the profitability of our developments coming through realized gains which we now expect to be between $300 million and $325 million this year.
As we discussed last quarter we had $1.3 billion of short-term debt related to our acquisition of KTR.
This consisted of $1 billion term loan during 2017 and $300 million drawn on our line of credit.
We continue to plan to repay the short-term debt with proceeds from dispositions and contributions.
In the third quarter we reduced our line balance by $232 million leaving less than $1.1 billion of this to be repaid.
The reduction is consistent with our expectations as a majority of disposition and proceeds from the third quarter were used to fund planned development spend and acquisitions.
We expect to generate about $500 million of proceeds from our net deployment activity in the fourth quarter.
You can get there using our fourth quarter guidance factoring in the OP units issued in connection with the industrial portion of the Morris transaction as well as using development spend.
We’ll use the net proceeds from the fourth quarter to further reduce our short-term debt for a total reduction of about $750 million by year-end.
As a result leverage on a gross book basis and debt to EBITDA should be about 38% and seven times respectively by year-end.
This will leave us with approximately $550 million of short-term financing which we expect to repay by the middle of next year.
We’re very confident that we’ll complete our planned fourth quarter capital recycling.
As Hamid mentioned buyer interest from our dispositions is strong and diverse.
For contributions our ventures are well-capitalized and we are far along in the process of completing property appraisals and fund approvals.
As we mentioned last quarter we have substantial embedded capital in our ventures given our ownership as well above our long-term target of 20%.
The ability to reduce our interest to this level provides us with significant flexibility and optionality to fund our future capital needs.
Putting our guidance together we’re maintaining the midpoint and narrowing our 2015 core FFO range to between $2.19 and $2.21 per share.
This represents 17% year-over-year growth or an increase of $0.32 at the midpoint.
In closing we had exceptionally strong operating results cash flow growth and significant value creation.
Looking forward we have substantial liquidity and a high degree of confidence as well as optionality in our capital recycling plan.
With that I’ll turn it over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana of Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask a little bit about rent spreads.
They were about flattish with where they’d been in the past couple of quarters and it look like your scheduled expiring rents moved up a little bit.
So with the change in the expiring rents that just a mix issue or were you able to pull forward some of those low expiring rents this quarter and how should we kind of think about the change in rents going forward from here? Yes Brendan it’s Gene let me take that.
We’re always pulling forward rents so it’s difficult to look at a schedule and sort of predict what’s necessarily going to happen in the next quarter.
But let me draw your attention a couple of changes quarter-to-quarter that are worth noting.
We had a heavy volume of leases in the Northwest and Southwest.
In the U.S.
we had 40% of the leases rolling wherein those regions those are the highest rent change regions.
In this quarter it’s just 22% and virtually all of that was taken up by the East which actually has the lowest.
So you are going to see this sort of quarterly volatility just based on the mix.
But to answer the – your last question or last segment of it if you look out into next year just take a look at page 22 what we’re rolling next year and frankly what we’re rolling in 2016? Now that mix won’t tie exactly to what we actually lease next year but it’s a pretty good proxy the – and the comps look really really good going forward.
So bottom line is that the trajectory is going to look just like it has.
It will have an upward slope to it I think it’s going to have an upward slope to it going into next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Mailman of KeyBanc Capital.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Tom just on the high-end of guidance just curious what really brought that down because when you look at some of the operating metrics year-end occupancy trended a little bit higher you had the $5 million reduction in G&amp;A at the high point and really kind of an increase in net investment activity given some of the slowdown in dispositions relative to what you guys have thought about before.
So just maybe clarify that and just one other quick one on Hamid your comments about feeling good about the disposition pipeline here for the fourth quarter.
Could you maybe just give us an update on what kind of volume you guys have under contract grow in line and maybe expected timing on that $1.3 billion? Hey Craig it’s Tom.
I’ll take the – both of those questions.
On the guidance change really note the only reason why the top end is down slightly as this deployment mix.
Actually what we’ve sold to-date has been right on time actually even a little bit ahead of what we talked about on an R share basis so what you’re seeing in the fourth quarter is purely timing around deployment.
Just regarding a similar color on our plan contribution disposition activity in the fourth quarter our share of the contribution disposition activity is $1.3 billion that’s $900 million of dispositions and $400 million of contributions.
Taking the contributions first as I mentioned earlier the funds have adequate capital.
They’re extremely well-capitalized low leveraged.
We’re very far long in getting the appraisals done and standard approvals done.
And these contributions have been in their deployment plans all year.
So this is what we’ve been planning for and we feel very good about that happening by the end of the year.
On the disposition side as Hamid mentioned of our pools very deep pricing is meeting and in some cases even beating our expectations.
If you look at the contributions plus the dispositions where we’ve already identified a buyer that represents about 80% of our Q4 activity.
So as Hamid said we’re well on our way of knocking this out by the end of the year and so we feel good about our progress to-date and what we’re getting done right now.
Yes and the other 20% by the way is in the market or shortly be in the market.
So just to put this in context the kind of disposition volume that we’ve done in prior years post merger is orders of magnitude larger than this.
So we’re not losing a lot of sleep on the ability to execute here.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning everyone or good afternoon.
Can you just talk about I think I heard KTR renewal spreads about 20% so better than the overall portfolio.
Can you just remind us where you’re at on the leasing side I think you was 92% last quarter and is that part of the uplift in the occupancy guidance here as just KTR leasing up faster as well? Yes it’s Gene let me take that.
We’re 93% leased to this point so it’s up marginally.
It’s not I mean given the size of that portfolio it’s not going to have a meaningful impact on the overall numbers.
So but we’re on track.
My guess is we’re going to beat our estimate.
When we announced this deal that within a year this portfolio would basically be – have this similar occupancy as the overall portfolio so we’re on track for that.
In terms of the spreads you’ve got to be a little bit careful a quarter is a quarter and those will bounce around a lot.
But deal by deal we are beating the underwriting so far so that’s good news.
Your next question comes from the line of Manny Korchman of Citibank.
Your line is open.
Hey guys good morning.
Maybe as you look at your portfolio being near peak occupancy levels is there anything changing the way that your approaching deals or approaching relationships with customers or anything else that’s changing the business? Yes.
So the last time we were in the 96% plus range was briefly in 2008 but really you got to go back to 1999 before you see those kinds of occupancy levels.
We try to balance occupancy with rent so we definitely push harder on rent when occupancy levels are at this level particularly in the U.S.
In Europe we’re not obviously pushing quite as hard on rents.
Rents are up slightly but our pricing power is not as strong as it is in the U.S.
clearly.
The other things that we’re doing with these – this leases is that we really focus on term and credit so this enables us at this point in the cycle to lock in rates and escalations and good credit all at the same time.
And this is – those are the variables we play with at different points in the cycle.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim of SunTrust.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Could you just comment on how to praise – cap rates are looking like in Europe? What’s your kind of current view on when those cap rates reach a 6% or sub-6% level that would maybe accelerate some of your European asset sales? And the second question any commentary on directional fund flows into your funds right now? Yes.
So Ki Bin it’s Gary.
Let me take that.
So for the quarter core cap rates in Europe are down about 20 basis points.
The secondary market has basically been flat they haven’t moved much.
So overall you’re sub-6 today.
You’re somewhere probably between 5.75% and 6% in our fund so certainly an improvement.
We’re obviously looking at dispositions in Europe where they make sense and where we feel like we’re getting value and we’ll execute on those as and when they come.
With respect to fund flow we actually have a pretty deep queue in our open-ended fund today.
And I’d say that even that is underestimated there’s a shadow queue behind it.
So I think we’re in pretty good shape in Europe today.
Yes.
Let me just add to that.
I think the reason we’re not taking more capital and adding to the queue is that we want to get people’s money invested in a reasonable periods of time and we don’t want to take on capital that we don’t see opportunities for in terms of investing in the marketplace.
Also the sub-6 cap rates that we’re seeing obviously the UK is really low.
I mean UK many instances is in the 5 and in some cases we’ve actually seen the 4 in front of some of the cap rates in London and Southeast type markets.
But the Continent even the worst markets on the Continent are now in the low to mid-sixes.
So the Continent alone would be also under 6 on a blended basis.
Cap rates in Europe I think when we talked to you a couple of years ago when there was a lot of concern around CapEx in Europe our estimate was that they were going to compress about 1.5% 150 basis points.
And at that time cap rates were about 8%.
In fact that’s what we recapitalized taper at with the largest transaction.
I got to tell you we were conservative.
Cap rates in Europe have declined already by about 200 basis points from those days and we just had a very recent conversation with our team about this.
The feeling is that there’s probably another 25 to 50 basis points of cap rate compression remaining so that our old 150 may end up being 250 basis points.
We’re not there quite yet but we already passed the 150.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Good morning out there.
You touched briefly on – some thoughts on development starts for next year saying don’t be surprised if they could be flat to down.
I was hoping you could expand on that a little bit because I think one of the potential concerns out there is the development start have ramped for the company annually into this cycle.
And at some point the market is probably going to look to see that number back down.
So can you talk about how you think not just about 2016 but how you think about capital allocation and risk over the next couple of years with respect to those development starts? Ross this is Hamid.
Let me take this since I was here during the entire cycle what we talked about development volumes.
Going back to actually right after the crisis I think in one of our analyst days in New York we talked about across the cycle development volume is being between $2 billion and $3 billion.
And that was a time I think where we were doing $300 million or $400 million of development in the really low point to the cycle.
And I think the market had a hard time getting its head around sort of $2 billion to $3 billion type numbers.
We said the average across cycle would be about $2.5 billion.
Well we’ve now slightly exceeded the $2.5 billion.
As I mentioned in my prepared remarks we’re really cautious about starting spec.
And I think the entire market is really cautious about starting spec.
That’s why our built to suit ratios are up from the low-30s to the low-40s.
Look we’re getting 30% plus margin.
This is not because we’re geniuses it’s because we have some cheap land and we’re getting cap rate compression in some of these exits.
And those two factors are contributing to strong margins.
But every time we look at a spec development we really look at it against the alternative of selling the land to that market.
In fact we analyze it with land being price of market because that would be the other way for us to – our best value out of the portfolio.
And so we’re much more interested in getting strong margins out of our development pipeline than driving the volume by a couple of hundred million dollars.
You should not read too much about – my commentary about development volume.
The point I wanted to make is that we are not building to some magical volume number.
We don’t have internal goals that we need to meet in that regard.
We’ll build as much or as little as we think we can prudently lease and realize margins on.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Rodgers of Baird.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning out there and maybe this question is either for Hamid or Gene and probably for Tim mostly the U.S.
but with occupancy guidance of 96 and 96.5 the spread that we’ve seen retention kind of pushing 90%.
Do you think you’re pushing rents harder than as you think there is a greater ability to do so clearly the spread should get better based upon your comments earlier but just kind of curious about hey cautious or more aggressive tone regarding taking retention down maybe pushing occupancy down a little bit to get better rent growth? Hey Dave that’s a really good question and I want to hear and I want to hear Gene please go ahead.
It is great question and the answer the honest answer is no.
I don’t think we’re pushing rents hard enough we’re pushing them harder than they’ve ever been pushed in the history of industrial real estate I would point out and I feel great about our spreads maybe compared to competitors or the rest of the market.
But it becomes a very psychological game at this point and I don’t think we would look at let’s strategically take down retention for example or get that nuance but I can tell you in our leasing discussions it’s a different environment and we ask our teams different questions.
One of the questions we’ve added is tell us about the deals you said no to tell us about the leases that you backed away from and told the customer we’re serious about this rent and if you need to go to another building we understand and I’m serious about that so we’re having those discussions we’re going to follow those transaction see what happens to those spaces it’s a sort of a new world here I mean I’ve been doing this for 30 years so I’ve seen cycles and we have had very strong cycles in the past but nothing even approaching this.
And next year I wouldn’t be surprised if eight or nine U.S.
markets have a three handle on actual vacancy probably three or four already do that’s just uncharted territory so your question is a very good one I can’t give you a scientific answer but we’re really focused on it.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Feldman of Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thank you.
I’m here with [indiscernible] as well.
So looking at the third quarter development starts it looks like it was pretty light in the U.S.
overweight in Europe and lighter in Asia.
Can you talk about the composition of what you think you might start in the fourth quarter the $1 billion of starts and then as we think about the next year being flat to down what’s the U.S.
composition.
And then in addition just kind of thinking about what are these numbers tell us about what’s to come and how you’re thinking about the market? Jaime this is Mike Curless.
With respect to the Q3 volume just natural things going on there with some build to suits that are been moved into the fourth quarter nothing unusual into the third quarter we have a heavy set of volume plan for the Q4 which is very typical for our company we’ve done that for the last several years.
And if you look at the overall volume this year it’s going to be up over call it 20% at least over last year we’ve increased our build to suit percentage to well over 40% all while keeping the margins around 20% so we as a company feel really good about the quantity and the quality of this work to Tom’s point earlier.
And as we look into the next year we would expect the build to suit volume to continue to increase and we have volume that will be more measured compared to this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Burke of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Everyone just a quick one on FX I realize you are hedged for the remainder of this year and you’ve also done a lot to hedge your FX exposure on the debt side.
But can you give us a sense of what kind of FX impact we should expect as those hedges start to roll off the timing and the magnitude of any headwind they might have? Hey Brad it’s Tom.
So on the earnings side we actually hedge out on the earnings side 6 to 8 quarters ahead of where we are.
So we’re always hedging and we walk ourselves into that hedging we don’t do 100% of Q3 of 2017 at this point we’re probably we’re almost fully hedged for our estimated earnings in 2016 and we probably have hedged for estimated earnings in 2017 and those are just simple straightforward contracts that we do.
From an earnings perspective from Q from 2015 to 2016 the earnings impact from where we walked in rates is probably $0.02 to $0.03 of an earnings drag on 2016.
That being said I – we still feel good about where 2016 earnings will come in we’ll give you guidance next quarter on that but we feel really good about maintaining strong growth into 2016.
So it’s baked into our numbers and we feel good about our growth prospects.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee of Stifel.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thank you.
Just a couple of comments which will lead into a question.
It appears that looking at the fund flows out there that the incremental investor in the REIT space might be a generalist as opposed to the rededicated crowd and as well we can manage FFO versus the degrees of leverage and whether your borrow short or borrow along.
So Tom or Hamid when you’re looking at managing your valuation metrics NAV versus FFO how you’re thinking about managing those valuation metrics vis-à-vis the incremental buyer out there of your shares? John we manage our business for cash flow in our pocket and ultimately dividends to our investors and the growth for that because I don’t think dedicated or non-dedicated investor have different appetite and interest in making money.
I think they’ll want to make money and at the end of day it’s cash in their pocket and the growth in that cash profile.
So we are being real estate people so by definition we’re more NAV focused but those two things are not unrelated.
I think the issue that I think you brought up last quarter and I think your question implies this quarter is that has there been a lot of NAV creation in a constant cap rate environment? Well that would not be an appropriate way to look at our company because we sold the bottom 20% of our portfolio.
We sold our highest cap rate assets and we’ve acquired in our target market presumably at the lowest cap rates and the best growth potential.
So people can do any kind of analysis they want.
But at the end of the day I think what you should focus on what I’m focused on is dividends paid and the growth rate in those dividends over time.
Your next question comes from the line of Vance Edelson of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Hamid you mentioned export oriented softness in China.
Are you seeing the same dynamic in the U.S.
in other words what effect is slower global economic growth having on your U.S.
domestic business when it comes to your more export oriented tenants? Do you hear anything about sluggishness in their business that might affect leasing demand? So exports have never been a really big driver of demand in the U.S.
And a lot of the containers that go out of the U.S.
are actually going out empty these days because of the strong dollar.
Imports are much more significant in terms of driving demand.
And the weakness in the ports – port markets in China compared to the consumption type buildings is mostly because of very imports of raw material and parts and things of that nature none necessarily to our exports because exports generate a warehouse demand not at the port and not at the market that we invest in they generate that demand near the factory where the goods are produced on the export side.
So exports are usually not a big deal in terms of industrial demand.
Now I’d like to do one thing before we take the next question.
I think Jamie asked about the mix of our development business.
And Mike skipped over that part of the answer.
Based on our current projections and this will change the Americas in the fourth quarter remainder of the year we think about 40% of our business will be in the Americas 30% in Europe and 30% in Asia.
For 2016 it will be about a third in the Americas a quarter in Europe and about 40% in Asia.
And the Asian numbers are probably more driven by Japan and China; Japan will be bigger.
And we have – all those projects identified and it’s pretty well known what we’re going to build next year because we have the land and they’re designed and they’re ready to go.
So take that for whatever it’s worth I think it’s going to be closer to those kinds of numbers.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Miller of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Core opportunities for promote in 2016 so wondering if you could talk about the potential magnitude of those compared to 2015? It is Tom.
So again we’ll give guidance in the next quarter so I won’t get specific but if you look at where we’re promoting next year we’ve got our two open-ended funds in Europe PEPF II and PTELF those last were eligible for promote in 2013 they did not promote at the time they’re up again and I think the second or third quarter.
I think third quarter of next year and think about what cap rates – Hamid’s comments about what cap rates have done over that period of time of pretty meaningful drop and the promote is going to be calculated as a point-to-point valuation return so… I’m Mike they’re going to be lot higher but please don’t get excited because I think this business promotes are the last bit of residual that remains after you get the capital back and the preferred return so a little bit of movement on the terminal cap rate or on what happens can really move around promotes in a big way based on what we see to-date they’re going to be quite significant.
But in terms of the way you should think about them in valuing the business my sense is that across the cycle those promotes net to the company are about 15% to 20% about this under management on a fairly regular basis once you average it out over time take this point I’m saying I wish you would...
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Frankel of Green Street Advisors.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Two quick questions.
First it seems like you’ve sold a lot more impaired land this quarter so I was hoping you can comment on that and who the buyers were at that land.
And second I noticed that your free rent balance went up pretty significantly from the second quarter to third quarter so any color would be appreciated thank you.
Hey it’s Tom I’ll take the free rent one first it’s twofold.
First is remember I talked about in my prepared remarks the burn off of that lease intangible from the merger that was a negative item that’s burning all that fully burned off in Q3 for the first time so that’s part of it.
And then the second piece would just be we’ve got a bigger portfolio right so think about adding KTR and the like and the volume of leasing activity we’re doing that would be the – those would be the drivers.
Yes I can remember.
KTR was disproportionate because KTR had more vacancy and therefore more space to lease than the average of our portfolio.
And Eric with respect to this is Mike with respect to land sales we’ve an active quarter and the primary buyers of our non-strategic land have been users and some developers for building product that we don’t tend to build.
Hi thanks for taking my questions.
I just want to talk about the potential for going vertical for a second where rents are right now and into locations in San Fran and Seattle how close are those rents to justifying going vertical and what is that potential repositioning opportunity represent for those markets for Prologis as a whole? So Tom did you actually think into our customer advisory meeting guy at New York and because this is the exactly the two markets that we talk to customers around we went as far as actually taking design specific designs and getting their input on it on some very specific sites and based on that we tweak some of our design ideas so I think we you’re going to see us going probably two-story anyway maybe three in San Francisco on a couple of places as we fine-tune this product we’re going to experiment with it we’re not going to all of a sudden go nuts with it but it’s certainly something that I think the market is ready for.
Let me also mention another way that we go vertical on our site that that you may not normally think of and that is in the last year we sold about over $500 million of real estate that $0.5 billion of real estate to users and companies well-known technology companies with hundreds of billions of dollars of market cap you can figure out who they are and they’re going to go vertical on those properties because they’re going to knock down our beautiful one-story warehouses and build corporate campuses or are ready on them to house their employees.
So I think when you own infill real estate as we said many times good things happen to it than I think we’re beginning to see those good things happening to some of our properties.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana of Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Thanks Tom.
I had a follow up.
So you mentioned by end of the year I think 38% leverage is where you expect to get to seven times debt to EBITDA.
And I think you said you’ve got $550 million of short-term refinancing that would be left at year-end that you expect to get done by the middle of 2016.
From a leverage perspective how should we think about net dispositions and the pace of dispositions and contributions in 2016 to get to your leverage targets? Well I think so two things.
So when we’re looking going forward we’re thinking about not only funding this remaining $550 million into next year but we also plan to sell fund all our deployment activity so starts as well.
So when you think about I mean rough I will give you some rough numbers just our share.
So think about the $550 million we have to spend.
And then if you think about how we recycle capital with our development program right? We build – we contribute in the funds.
We hold what’s on the U.S.
on our balance sheet.
We need to raise about $600 million maybe $650 million a year to kind of keep that cycle going.
So if you think about the $550 million plus $650 million that’s $1.2 billion.
Now acquisitions are going to be what acquisitions are and we’ll fund those most likely through our joint ventures whatever they are.
So if you kind of think about the level of our share proceeds we need to do it in knockout development next year as well as the $550 million would be in that range.
Yes and I think the best way for you to monitor that is to look at our land balance and it will be lumpy it will bounce around because we can’t find everything perfectly.
But I think it would be a very low-level balance on our line moving around quarter-to-quarter.
Brendan I should add I didn’t answer your question about just trending up where our leverage and debt to EBITDA will go.
I think if we look at this plan all encompassing this self-fund next year.
I think by the end of next year you’re going to see us back in the mid-30s LTV wise.
Again this is on a book basis not a market cap.
So we’re being consistent here.
And I think debt to EBITDA is going to – without any gains is going to get into the low-6 range I think that’s where we’ll be.
Your next question comes from the line of Manny Korchman of Citi.
Your line is open.
Hey Tom.
In the past I think you’ve given releasing spreads for the other regions outside the U.S.
Could you provide those and could you also give us some color on same-store NOI growth U.S.
versus Asia and Europe? Okay.
I’ll start with the same-store NOI growth.
Basically you saw in the U.S.
we were on a GAAP basis 8%.
We were flat to maybe up 1% in Europe and we were up call it 5% give or take blended Asia.
So when you put that altogether and you think about our share that’s how you get to 6.2% our share same-store.
An easy way to think about how to calculate our share is roughly about 80% of our NOI comes from the Americas 15% from Europe and 5% from Asia.
So that’s how – so roughly weight the different parameters.
As far as releasing spreads again we talked about the U.S.
leading the way.
We were at over 16%.
I think in Asia again releasing spreads were around 3% to 4% and in Europe it was fairly flat because what we’re seeing in Europe is those – a large percentage of releases there are actually index based on CPI there’s not a fixed factor that is what the market is.
And inflation has been pretty low if not zero in Europe so we’re not seeing a lot of year-over-year rent increases.
However a lot of that has to do with and maybe more of it has to do with cap rate compression right? That a real headwind for earnings.
So you’re only seeing part of the picture right? You’re seeing all the cap rates come through valuations.
You’re not seeing that yet in earnings.
And we got to have cap rates bottom out.
And once they bottom out we’ll start to see rent growth.
But I’ll tell you it’s a great problem to have when you have $12 billion of real estate in Europe and cap rates continue to grind tighter.
We’ll – I’ll patiently wait for rent growth.
I’ll take that trade any day.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Mailman of KeyBanc Capital.
Your line is open.
Hey Tom.
It’s Jordan Sadler here with Craig.
I had a follow-up but I heard you say couple of times in the last answer about self funding development I think that was probably pretty intentional but just as a clarification is that self fund can we use that you across sort of the broader spectrum of investment activity meaning including acquisitions as well as this point.
And then separately I had a question on expense growth in the quarter if there was anything that drove the same-store spends up as first as it was? Yes so I’ll answer the expense growth first no there was nothing with expense growth it was really all around reimbursable expenses increased so lot of it is real estate taxes and the increase in property dollars but again we’re almost majority triple net that passes on right to the onto our tenants pay that.
The other thing I would out with our occupancies becoming this high are real slippage is getting lower as well.
On your other question about self funding I do mean to say all-encompassing as Hamid has said in the past acquisitions are hard to predict and those will get funded if they’re in a fund within in the fund so I would say yes I think were in a position if we want to be able to fund all of our deployment this business development acquisitions anything we do by recycling capital.
It’s interesting I think KTR was almost a $6 billion company that we bought I don’t think there are too many companies around that can actually do a $6 billion acquisition put away half of it at the time of close and have the plan that within 3 to 4 quarters our self fund that size of an acquisition I think we’ve done that but I don’t expect you shouldn’t expect and I don’t expect us to be able to do major deals like that and still be self-funded obviously if we do major deals like that we need to capitalize the company but in terms of our regular day-to-day acquisitions and development so yes self-funding is the way to go.
And actually the other thing you should think about is that we are very over funded and in our funds in terms of our percentage interest so we can let that glide down to the 20% and in effect have the funds be the source of our capital or 100% of the investment in those fund so there’s a lot of room on the balance sheet than in the funds take care of what we need to take care.
Your next question comes from the line of John Guinee of Stifel.
Your line is open.
Great.
Hamid I would just recommend you because two or three quarters ago 80% of the questions were about your need to raise equity which you successfully deflected and proved that you don’t need to so congratulations.
But turning to the dividend question when I look at your sizable gains and contributions into the funds are you able to do that on a tax efficient basis or does that generate some tax impact and so Tom where are you on the dividend versus your taxable minimum and how you’re thinking about the dividend going forward given your successful development pipeline? Yes the bulk good questions John thank you so from a tax perspective the activity outside the U.S.
is subject to tax and when we show you our margins those margins are net of any taxes we pay so those are reflected so you’re seeing that already we can be pretty efficient tax wise overseas with our developments and but we do bring it back and that TI the taxable income does sit in our dividend.
So I feel good this year about our ability to but our dividend will cover our TI it’s pretty tight so what there’s not a lot of room for margin there i.e.
meaning that or I as I look at our earnings going forward and pace of development or that that’s a good trajectory for future dividend growth.
John I will tell you that it had been five or six years since I had a meeting with the Tom and his team about taxable income I find myself in one of those meetings once a week so I don’t know he’s working pretty hard at it.
And your next question comes from the line of Eric Frankel of Green Street Advisors.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
I can imagine many REIT teams are too pleased with their share prices here but I was hoping you could comment and how that is impacting your capital allocation plans if at all? Well I think the right answer that would get us in there in the past would be that to the extent that we’re selling at a discount to NAV.
We should be selling assets and buying stock back and the vice versa of that we get that we really do get that.
But unfortunately with a business that has time frames of a year or two we don’t run our business quarter-to-quarter and that tightly.
So we need to think about where do we point the ship over a long periods of time and we’re very focused on NAV.
I think your point is valid and well understood.
But incremental returns on our land bank and our development at 30% margins are very attractive and it is a constant balancing that we do.
What I tell our people every time they walk in here to investment community with that proposed acquisition or proposed development I tell them how do those returns compare to my calling 1-800 your favorite investment banker buying back stock? That’s the answer that we compare it to.
And those answers need to be compelling and that’s how we allocate capital.
And there are no further questions.
That was the last question.
So thank you for your interest in the company and we look forward to talking to you in 2016 if not sooner actually at NAREIT.
Bye-bye.
And this concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon my name is Kim and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter Prologis' Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
Ms.
Tracy Ward Senior Vice President Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thanks Kim and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our fourth quarter and full-year 2015 conference call.
The supplemental document is available on our website at prologis.com under Investor Relations.
This morning we'll hear from Hamid Moghadam our Chairman and CEO who will comment on the company's strategy the market environment; and then from Tom Olinger our CFO who will cover results and guidance.
Also joining us for today for the call are Gary Anderson Mike Curless Ed Nekritz Gene Reilly and Diana Scott.
Before we begin our prepared remarks I'd like to state that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements under federal securities laws.
These statements are based on current expectations estimates and projections about the market and the industry in which Prologis operates as well as management's beliefs and assumptions.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and actual operating results may be affected by a variety of factors.
For a list of those factors please refer to the forward-looking statement notice in our 10-K or SEC filings.
Additionally our result's press release and supplemental do contain financial measures such as FFO and EBITDA that are non-GAAP measures and in accordance with Reg G we have provided a reconciliation to those measures.
With that I'll turn the call over to Hamid and we'll get started.
Thanks Tracy and good morning.
At Prologis 2015 was a banner year.
Business remained exceptionally strong in the fourth quarter wrapping up a year that exceeded expectations in virtually all aspects of the business.
Broad-based demand and restrained supply are creating favorable conditions around the world.
Focusing on the top global and regional markets has helped us outperform the broader market.
Core FFO grew 19% year-over-year occupancy reached a record 96.9% and rents increased 13%.
We're two years into our three-year strategic plan and have already exceeded all of our financial goals a year ahead of plan.
Core FFO however doesn't tell the whole story.
While the key drivers of our operating performance in core FFO are occupancy rents and fees we also create value from our developments and value-added conversions.
The results of these activities materially add to our NAV.
Last year value creation totaled $700 million representing an additional $1.30 per share of NAV.
Industrial real estate market conditions are healthy in most of the world in spite of concerns about emerging market economies including slower growth in China.
In Europe for example where we've allocated significant capital over the last several years value appreciation has been extremely robust.
While several macroeconomic indicators tell a mixed story around the world those most correlated with our business point to favorable business trends in 2016 these include: global consumption with flat growth in 2016 at over 4%; global trade up in 2016 by about 3.5%; U.S.
container imports up in 2016 by about 5.5%; and strong e-commerce with growth again in the double digits.
The best indicator for our business however is the health and outlook of our customers.
Their space needs tell the story of global consumption.
For many customers that story is one of continued expansions.
Demand continues to exceed supply.
As we said on our last call equilibrium in the U.S.
will likely be reached in late 2016.
Globally our share of in-place portfolio rents is 10% under market today which will lead to continued NOI growth ahead of inflation as lease would turn over.
We're disciplined about managing risk in our spec development with a focus on profitability not volume.
Unlike previous cycles other developers and lenders in our sector also appear to be showing discipline.
As a result a healthy supply/demand environment continues now in its sixth year.
Supply chain reconfiguration is a key long-term driver of our business.
This is true for the full spectrum of our customer base.
Where growth is slowing customers are investing in ways to squeeze more efficiency out of their supply chain.
Even in a low growth environment our business can grow.
At the other end of the spectrum the growth in e-commerce continues to be a source of demand for industrial real estate.
Online sales grew 15% in the U.S.
while traditional retail grew only 2%.
The allure for brick-and-mortar retailers to create or expand their e-commerce business will continue well into the future.
To meet consumer demand for faster deliveries this channel requires facilities that are closer to labor and population centers.
We speak regularly with our customers about their changing space needs.
Good examples are Home Depot and Wal-Mart.
Once considered traditional retailers they are well underway with major reconfigurations of their supply chain designed to handle the rapidly changing e-commerce segment.
Our existing building and development portfolio has accommodated our most sophisticated e-commerce customers' needs and has done so across a wide range of space configurations from the largest fulfillment centers in our master-planned parks down to smaller last-mile delivery centers in our infill buildings.
We believe our business momentum will continue in 2016.
This is due to steady market conditions and broad-based demand from other sectors such as food and beverage automotive and electronics.
The last several years we worked to realign our portfolio and strengthen our capital structure.
We had an outstanding 2015 and made significant progress on our priorities finishing the year better positioned than ever.
The result is a business that outperforms during improving macro conditions and can capitalize on opportunities in the downturn.
Based on our customers' input and the position of our portfolio we have a positive outlook for 2016.
Tom? Thanks Hamid.
We had great results for the fourth quarter and full year.
Core FFO was $0.64 per share for the quarter and $2.23 per share for the year an increase of 19% year-over-year.
This includes $0.05 of net promote income we earned in the fourth quarter from our PELP venture.
We exceeded the top end of our guidance primarily due to operations and timing of capital deployment.
Starting with operations occupancy reached an all-time high of 96.9% and was above 95% in every region.
Our share GAAP rent change was 12.4% driven by the U.S.
at 18%.
The KTR assets have performed ahead of our underwriting for both occupancy and rent change.
KTR has been fully integrated in our portfolio and is included in the operating statistics I discussed.
Our share GAAP same-store NOI increased 6.6% in the quarter driven by the U.S.
at 8.7%.
As we discussed last quarter the negative impact on GAAP NOI from the amortization of lease intangibles related to the merger have fully burned off.
This again had a positive impact of about 100 basis points on GAAP same store.
Moving to our share of capital deployment we had an exceptional year and created significant value for our shareholders.
We stabilized $1.6 billion of developments with an estimated margin of 33%.
The initial yield on these stabilizations was 7.3% and the incremental cash return excluding already owned land was 9.2%.
Dispositions and contributions totaled $2.5 billion at a 5.3% weighted average stabilized cap rate and included $166 million of value creation from value-added conversions.
Dispositions and contributions volume was about $400 million short of the midpoint of our guidance.
We elected to split a few sales across multiple buyers to maximize proceeds and deferred certain contribution to amass better scale pushing this activity into the first half of 2016.
We started $1.8 billion of development with build-to-suits making up 44%.
The starts will generate estimated value creation of $388 million and margin of 21%.
Turning to capital markets we had an active quarter and closed the year with our lines of credit fully undrawn and reduced the short-term loan associated with the KTR acquisition to $400 million.
We're on track to pay off the remainder of the term loan by the end of the first half of 2016 if not sooner.
Our leverage on a book basis dropped 130 basis points to 38.4% at quarter-end.
Debt-to-EBITDA including gains improved to 6 times for the quarter.
While leverage and debt-to-EBITDA are very important credit metrics there are other factors which demonstrate the strength of our balance sheet.
The first is liquidity.
We ended the year with over $2.8 billion of liquidity and only 12% of our debt maturing in the next 24 months.
Maintaining significant liquidity at all times is a pillar of our balance sheet strategy as it mitigates credit market disruptions and provides ready capital to be optimistic.
Second is our significant nominal EBITDA coverage.
We have over $1.5 billion of annualized EBITDA in excess of our fixed charges underpinned by more than $25 billion of unencumbered assets.
The bottom line is our balance sheet is in great shape and we expect it to get even stronger in 2016.
Let's switch 2016 guidance.
For operation we expect our year-end occupancy to range between 96% and 97% and our share of GAAP same-store NOI growth at between 3.5% and 4.5%.
Cash same-store NOI growth should be higher than GAAP in 2016.
The split of our share of NOI by geography will be approximately 80% Americas 15% Europe and 5% Asia.
We expect our share development stabilizations to be between $1.6 billion and $1.8 billion.
As stabilizations have increased meaningfully over the past few years and now approach our starts volume we continue to see significant annual NOI growth from our developments.
For 2016 we expect FFO from development stabilizations of $0.10 to $0.12 per share.
Related to FX our 2016 earnings are very well insulated from foreign currency fluctuations as over 90% is already hedged.
For net G&amp;A we're forecasting a range of $235 million to $245 million essentially flat to last year at the midpoint while managing more than $6 billion in assets.
For strategic capital we expect revenue without promotes to range between $180 million and $190 million.
We have promote opportunities from three of our ventures in 2016 PTELF and PEPF II in the third quarter and USLV in the fourth quarter.
We project net promotes to contribute between $0.17 and $0.19 per share to core FFO.
The magnitude of these promotes is a testament to our strategic capital franchise as well as our strategy to allocate capital to Europe over the last five years.
Over this period we took advantage of a dislocation in asset prices in the market.
Our European portfolio has consistently outperformed the market in terms of both occupancy and returns.
Our capital deployment guidance is spelled out in our supplemental.
At the midpoint of our net deployment we will generate proceeds of about $400 million.
Additionally we have two other very significant sources of cash in 2016.
First we will receive $198 million in cash in the first quarter from a completion of the installment sale related to Facebook; and second we redeemed a total of $400 million between our USLF and PTELF ventures which we'll fund in the second quarter of 2016.
This ownership rebalancing in these two open-ended funds is aligned with our long-term ownership targets and facilitates the deployment of substantial investment queues in these ventures.
As a result we expect to generate net deployment proceeds in excess of our capital needs of $1 billion in 2016 or $600 million after repayment of the last $400 million of the KTR term loan.
Putting this all together we expect our 2016 core FFO to range between $2.50 and $2.60 per share including promotes.
This represents 14% year-over-year growth or an increase of $0.32 per share at the midpoint.
We expect AFFO growth will exceed core FFO growth in 2016.
If we assume a normalized annual net promote of $0.05 per share our core FFO range for 2016 would be between $2.38 a share and $2.46 an increase of 9% year-over-year at the midpoint.
In closing we had an incredible year and enter 2016 with confidence though mindful of potential economic cross-currents.
We have a portfolio that has never been in better shape a strong balance sheet and a plan that grows core FFO 14% pays off the remaining KTR debt self-funds all deployment generates $1 billion of net deployment in excess of our capital needs maintains significant liquidity and provides flexibility and optionality to adjust to changes in market conditions.
With that I'll turn it over to the operator for questions.
Thank you.
And the first question comes from the line of Juan Sanabria with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Juan Sanabria here with Jeff Spector and Jamie Feldman.
Just a question on the dividend.
How do you guys think about the coverage relative to AFFO and particularly just given the variability in developments? Yeah Juan this is Tom.
I'll take that.
So a couple things to think about there.
One when you look at our coverage in 2015 our coverage with development gains is 69%; without development gains is 89%.
For 2016 similar numbers would be with development gains of 65% roughly and without development gains of about 75%.
So we have significant AFFO coverage in excess of our dividend.
Now you had a question about how the dividend might be impacted if it could be impacted by changes in development.
So the first thing you need to think about and I'm assuming you're referring to capitalized overhead and capitalized interest.
So the first thing you need to think about though is how are we capitalizing development.
We're capitalizing development by self-funding.
So we're selling assets and rolling those into development.
And we're selling assets that are yielding let's just call it 6%.
And we're capping interest at a rate of roughly 3%.
And when you look at our capital overhead our capital overhead actually related to development annually is about $47 million.
And when you express that $47 million over development it's about 3%.
So if you think about if we slow down development let's just take an extreme example.
Let's just assume there's no development.
So if we had development of $2 billion we were going to sell $2 billion to fund that.
The 6% we were earning on that development is going to stay in our income statement.
The interest expense that we were to cap is going to stay in our income statement.
The overhead that we were going cap is going to stay in our income statement.
And you know what there's a zero impact on our income statement because all of that NOI that we would have used to fund that development is going to stay in our books.
So we're self-funding.
So if the development slows down no impact on our earnings.
And your next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good afternoon everyone.
Just wanted to go back to the contribution for the quarter and the dispositions being a little lighter than you expected.
Can you just give me a little bit more color on maybe what changed in the markets relative to your thinking at the end of third quarter that caused you kind of shift a little bit mid quarter in terms of your plans there? Yeah.
This is Tom.
I'll take that again.
So as I've said in my prepared remarks we had some activity that just – that got pushed back – pushed into 2016.
But I want you to focus on a couple things.
And when I talked about the sources of cash that we have we have $600 million that's locked and loaded that's going to close in the first and the second quarter of 2016 between the Facebook note and the fund rebalancing.
That's $600 million.
There's another $400 million of acquisitions alone that Mike can give color on that – dispositions I'm sorry that Mike can give color on that we feel extremely good about.
There's $1 billion of capital right there that we will realize very very quickly in cash.
So it's really just a shift of timing at the end of the year a point in time and we elected to shift some activity into 2016 for very good economic reasons but we feel great about where we are.
We're ahead of schedule from a KTR standpoint.
I talked – we talked about that funding paying off the remaining $400 million by the end of the first half of the year.
I think it's going to be April to be very specific when you look at all the funding that we have in place that is certain to close.
And your next question comes from the line Dave Rodgers with Baird.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Just wanted to talk a little bit about the development pipeline up to about $3 billion now; about a third of that is leased.
I think in your comments Hamid you talked about e-commerce staying pretty steady in terms of demand for space out there but I guess I was wondering if on the ground or in the field you're seeing any potential cracks in the pace of lease up on the new development especially on the spec side.
Just curious about kind of that leasing activity that you're seeing out there in the market.
We're really looking for it.
We read the same papers everybody else does and obviously we're very vigilant about it but we haven't seen it.
I mean that's probably the question I ask the team every Monday and we have pretty real data on leasing.
We track that stuff very closely and we haven't seen this.
In fact I would tell you based on talking to our European guys the day before yesterday actually or Friday the sense is that Europe is starting with the bang.
I mean it's much stronger than before and I will say the U.S.
continues to be pretty strong.
So if anything if we're going to do our plan again I would say we'd be slightly more optimistic about leasing because of Europe on balance.
And your next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
Morning.
Hamid maybe related to that.
So it sounds like your comments were and performance in the quarter all very strong from a fundamental perspective.
It sounds like you feel that way about the outlook.
But it also feels like you're slowing down a little bit in terms of development starts.
And so it feels like maybe you're scaling back the growth drivers of the business a little.
And I'm just wondering is that because there's concern that there could be a slowdown or do you feel like it's just a prudent way to manage the business in what's fifth or sixth-year of an economic expansion? Or is this just more normal course kind of what we should expect maybe around $2 billion of starts as opposed to $2.5 billion that I think you were running at last year? Brendan you probably remember this but back in the beginning of time 2011 or something we actually laid out a plan that talked about development in aggregate being about $2 billion to $3 billion a year on a run rate basis in total not our share.
Obviously the numbers you're quoting are per share which are a little bit lower.
And I will still say that's an opportunity set.
But why get ahead of ourselves? I mean we've got a very robust build-to-suit pipeline right now.
You can see that for the first time we're projecting build-to-suits to be over 50% of our leasing activity.
Again reading the same papers we want to be cautious.
There is nothing that will stop us from starting up more development if we see more opportunity down the road.
As Tom mentioned we have $1 billion more capital than we need to finance KTR.
We have the capital.
We can do it.
We have a lot of the land already and we have time to make that decision.
So I think we're being prudent and – but we'll do the right thing whatever that may be at the time.
And your next question comes from the line David Toti with BB&amp;T.
Your line is open.
Just a quick question on dispositions the cap seemed a little bit higher.
Can you walk us through the mix in the quarter? Sure.
I mean remember what we're selling.
First of all let me take you back to the time of the merger again beginning of time.
We sold over $8 billion of properties.
Just think about that.
I mean that I think would be the size of maybe the second largest company in the sector.
That's what we've sold.
And I think you know that we've been selling from the non-strategic end of the spectrum.
So you would expect those cap rates to be higher than our portfolio.
And there is a lot of talk out there about what would the value of the portfolio be on a constant cap rate basis and the like.
When you sell $8 billion from the lower tier of your portfolio the mix has a very substantial impact on what cap rate is even in a steady environment on what's left in your portfolio.
So we think the IRR at the end of the day is what matters and those cap rates are higher because the growth rates are lower.
And we feel really good about our capital allocation decisions.
Just think about the capital we allocated to Europe a couple years ago.
How did we fund that? We funded that by selling some non-strategic assets in Europe.
At that time people thought we were crazy.
We're selling assets in the U.S.
in the mid-6%s and low-7%s and we were buying assets in Europe in the low-8%s.
And those assets that we bought in the low-8%s are now in the high-5%s and low-6%s.
So you got to take a longer-term view of these and I wouldn't read too much into any quarter-by-quarter things particularly when you have this mix issue going on with the numbers at this scale.
And your next question comes from the line of Manny Korchman with Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> When thinking about the promote guidance for next year what values are the promotes based on and just how do you kind of get there? Let me clarify something about the promotes.
We've had some (23:46) questions recently about our promotes that they – that's why we're selling assets.
Our promotes have nothing to do with what assets we sell or what assets we hold.
They're completely based in the vast majority of the cases on appraised values on a quarter-by-quarter basis at the time of the promote.
So actually selling assets doesn't do anything to the promote.
So I just wanted to clarify that.
Secondly I would say we have pretty good visibility into the valuations because we appraise the portfolio particularly the deals that are in the ventures on a quarterly basis.
We know what the carrying values are in the fourth quarter and we put some sensitivity around that at scenarios that include cap rate expansion flat cap rates reducing cap rates and we've picked a prudent number to project those.
Now to answer your specific question the promotes today are based in the high-5% low-6% cap rates and we think there's a bit of room in those numbers to the good but we're not going to get ahead of ourselves now.
And your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Good morning out there.
Can you talk to me a little bit about what you're expecting market rents to do this year in light of the comments that you had earlier about reaching equilibrium and maybe some thoughts even into next years how the market rents for industrial plays out in the U.S.? Yeah.
Let me – I'll let Gene address that.
Gene? Yeah.
So I think – and we talked about this last quarter I believe so we said we're going to reach equilibrium this year but we're going to reach equilibrium in the U.S.
at least at a sort of mid-5% vacancy rate.
I think we'll be 5.7% at the end of it.
And I think you can grow rents substantially above inflation during an equilibrium period if your vacancy rate is that low.
So I would guess for this year we're going to see continued growth that's going to be 5%-ish.
And my view beyond that is that it's probably 4% to 5% the following year because I don't think we're going to see excess construction next year or the year after.
So it's in that range.
The only thing I would add to what Gene said Ross is that for a couple years now we've been predicting that cap rates are going to stay the same or expand and we've been wrong about that.
Now if cap rates do stay the same or expand rental growth will be stronger because the headwind of cap rate compression is going to be maybe turning into a tailwind or neutral wind anyway.
So that's something to keep in mind as well.
I think that's particularly true in Europe obviously where we had 70 basis points of cap rate compression over the last year 20 basis points from the last quarter.
And that's certainly been a headwind to arguably to push rents but I expect that to subside back half of this year.
And your next question comes from the line of Brad Burke with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Quick question on the same-store guidance.
What does the same-store imply for GAAP rent spreads over the course of 2016? And if you can give some detail on how much of that is just marking leases to market that will roll over the next year and how much of that is your assumption on market rent growth.
Okay.
Hold on a second.
If we have zero rental growth our same-store will be 3.8% based on our numbers if we have zero rent growth from here on out.
I think that answers your question.
And your next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Going to the build-to-suits going back there that percentage crept up throughout 2015.
Where do you see the build-to-suit versus spec split penciling out in 2016 on a full-year basis? This is Mike Curless.
Last year ended up at about 45%.
And given our – and just to give you a little context we've done 30 build-to-suits in the last 12 months and that's largely due to a function of our land control customer control and our development team.
And as we look into next year we've got more in the pipeline that we've ever had before at this stage of the year.
And given the track record and all the reasons I mentioned before we're very bullish on our ability to see those percentages approaching 50% next year.
And your next question comes from the line of Tom Lesnick with Capital One Securities.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Hamid you previously used the call as a platform to call attention to markets or even submarkets that you've felt some concern about.
Are there any that stand out to you today? And I guess on the flip side of that are there any markets that you're particularly optimistic about for 2016? Sure Tom.
First of all thank you for remembering that because I think that's a very important part of our responsibilities to call out markets that have any risk of getting overbuilt from our vantage point.
And the reason I didn't mention it is because nothing has really changed in that regard.
It's Houston obviously from demand reasons is a bit softer although it's holding up a bit better than we would have expected at this point.
And Dallas continues to have a lot of development but absorption is keeping pace.
So so far so good but we are really watching those two markets probably more than any others in the U.S.
I would say going over to Europe Paris is a bit soft and it's not really a supply problem; it's more of a demand problem.
And I think some of it has to do with some of the terrorist fuss that went on last quarter but I don't know; France has generally been a little bit slower.
The place that's been surprisingly strong in Europe for us has been Spain.
Spain has really done a turnaround and I would say it's done extremely well.
The UK was early in Europe and we thought gee it got a little bit ahead of itself and it may go the other way or soften; it hasn't.
It continues to be pretty strong in terms of cap rates.
And in the U.S.
Chicago has been pretty good on the upside in this cycle.
And the large California markets continue to be very very strong.
In the longer term I'm a little concerned about the technology sort of bubble in valuations and all that and ultimately that may have an impact on Bay Area numbers not next year and probably not the year after.
But we've essentially taken a lot chips off the table from that R&amp;D type of product.
And I don't think it will have much more of an effect on distribution space.
And your next question comes from the line of Craig Mailman with KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Two quick ones.
Tom in the past you said cash same-store is typically about 50 bps above GAAP.
Just curious if that spread should be a good way to think about it this year.
And then just separately you guys have kind of noted I think last quarter Europe cap rates were about 5.9%.
Just wondering what the update is there and maybe thoughts on Tom you selling down fund interest? Okay.
I'll take the first one.
So Craig on cash same-store for 2016 I expect it to be probably 25 bps.
Could be higher than that – than GAAP next year for 2016.
Gary? Yeah cap rates in Europe were about 20 basis points down from that 5.9% that we mentioned last quarter.
(31:42) We talked about the fund selldowns in the rebalancing part of Tom's prepared remarks so that's what we're doing.
Our funds are way over the percentage that we need to have in the funds I mean like double or triple what our percentage should we.
And we're getting a lot of interest from our investors who are in the queues for investing in these funds to put their capital in and to invest.
And we've gone to them and we've said okay we're prepared to sell down to accommodate your needs.
And by the way we've also told the other investors look if you want to sell down along with us come on down because we've got plenty of people who want to buy in and this is a good time to rebalance your portfolio.
And one or two investors have taken advantage of that but by and large other people have not wanted to sell down.
And we never intended to have 40% in our funds and the target was more around 15% or 20%.
And we're not going to go all the way down to that level certainly but we're going to get back to a more normal allocation of our funds.
I think there are some transactions that are locked and loaded that are based on fourth quarter valuation.
So we know the values we know the timing we know the amount.
And that's why we feel so confident in our capital plan and not at all concerned about the things that we were asked about in terms of dispositions in the fourth quarter and all that.
So we're watching these things on a real-time basis and we have to adjust our disposition plans to balance the fund investments.
And that can continue to be a source of capital for us.
I think in a couple of quarters ago we walked you through it.
There was about $3 billion of capital available because of our excess investment in our fund.
So that is in effect a forward funding opportunity for anything that we may need capital for and for the time being we're really happy having our capital investment in there.
And your next question comes from the line of Eric Frankel with Green Street Advisors.
Your line is open.
LLC</span></strong> Two-part question.
One Hamid I think you mentioned that your portfolio is roughly 10% under market.
Is that a fair assumption across your portfolio broadly or is that a little bit higher in the – or a little bit more under market in the U.S.
and a little bit less in Europe? And then the second question I was hoping you could touch upon the land sales this quarter.
It seems like land as a percent of your total operating portfolio has decreased pretty meaningfully.
First of all you're absolutely right Eric.
The U.S.
is higher and Europe is lower.
And surprisingly Japan is higher than we thought.
Before Japan has always been sort of a flat 1% or 2%-type growth market and I think our numbers are around 4% today.
Secondly those are our share numbers which is based on our mix as opposed to the overall portfolio mix.
That's where our capital is invested.
I don't remember the exact numbers.
What are they that went up to the 10% between U.S.
and elsewhere? Eric it's around 12% for the Americas.
Flat in Europe 4.5% to 5% in Japan as Hamid said and about 2% China.
Now Eric with respect to your question about land that's quite conscious.
As you've heard me talk about we have too much land to support our development and that's partly a legacy issue from the last cycle.
And we've got a challenge because as we monetize land in our development as value keeps going – their value what remains keeps going up and so we've got a bit of a headwind in terms of getting our land down.
And you're just seeing the book value actually the market value is substantially higher than that.
So we have a conscious decision to work down our land.
In fact what I'd like to see in our Land B is to be under $1 billion because I think it can support two or three years of development with having that amount of land on our books.
That means that we can unlock about $1 billion of capital from our land bank over some period of time.
I hope it's sooner than later but there's $1 billion of capital sitting there.
If that were invested in income-producing properties everything else being the same that's another $60 million of earnings that are being wasted because they're parked in dead land.
So that's another what $0.12 a share that would be really meaningful to our business.
And our team is working hard to getting the land bank done.
It takes time but we'll get there.
And your next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa with Evercore.
Your line is open.
Tom I know you answered the question about the difference between cash and GAAP so thank you.
I guess just bigger picture you mentioned kind of the Bay Area and just kind of your concerns.
Just given your contacts and people you talk to can you just maybe speak a little bit about kind of what you're seeing on the ground there from a technology funding DC perspective and just kind of some of the things we ought to be looking at? Steve as you know I've been in this business since the early 1980s and herein.
Originally our business was entirely focused on the Bay Area.
So we've seen I don't know four of these cycles before.
It doesn't mean each one is going to be exactly the same as the last one.
But it just feels like everything is overstretched.
And you're seeing a couple of canaries in the coal mine.
You're seeing the IPOs get priced at the lower end of the range.
You're seeing a lot of the companies go through down rounds and with the ratchets really getting some investors displeased.
All of that stuff ultimately will affect demand for space particularly – and I should stop there because I'm not an office expert or R&amp;D expert and frankly our portfolio with the Facebook and the other major sale in Moffett (37:34) is essentially – we're done with that product type almost.
So it just feels like it's stretched.
That's all I was trying to communicate there.
I think the chances of real estate values going up a lot are not as high as their chances of values going down.
How much is your guess is as good as mine.
And your next question comes from the line of Sumit Sharma with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Great quarter.
Quick question on 2016 the guidance.
So if I took the fourth quarter annualized run rate ex the $0.05 promote layered in your assets NOI growth and promote and development FFO contributions it seems like you ought to be able to hit the high end of your FFO guidance range quite easily perhaps even exceed it.
So I guess what are the offsetting factors that you're seeing? This is Tom.
So the other factor would just be the dilution from asset sales and that excess cash that we're generating paying down lower yielding debt.
But you're right.
I mean same-store growth should be about $0.12 at the midpoint; it's really easy to take our share of same-store NOI of about $1.5 billion at the midpoint of our guidance of 4%.
There's your $0.12.
I talked about stabilizations of NOI being $0.10 to $0.12.
You will have a full run rate of KTR in 2016.
That will add about another $0.05.
And then there's about $0.08 of just the disposition sales drag that you're seeing.
But high level that gets you right there.
And your next question comes from the line of John Guinee with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Thank you.
I think probably this is for Tom but maybe Hamid jumps in.
If I'm – and correct me if I got this wrong but I think I heard you say your GAAP rental rate increases U.S.-only was about 18% and GAAP same-store NOI growth about 8.7% U.S.-only.
That would imply that you had a mid-20%s GAAP rental rate growth in certain markets and a 10%-plus same-store NOI growth in certain markets.
Can you talk about those markets that are hitting those sort of numbers? Yeah John it's Gene.
I can give you some high level color.
I can't actually break it down market by market.
But there is no question that GAAP spreads in certain markets are well in excess of 20%.
Some of them on a spot basis if you just look at the quarter it's probably 30%.
In the U.S.
we're 17 – 18% overall.
And there's always going to be some volatility around that but basically the answer is yes if I'm understanding your question correctly.
Yeah.
And the same-store obviously is propelled by occupancy gains as well.
So some of those same markets are getting a tailwind of occupancy gains that's driving it.
That would be harder to maintain when you're 97% leased.
But the rents I (40:53) And your next question comes from the line of Jon Petersen with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thank you.
So a lot of people have asked about the dispositions and contributions.
But I just want to ask you one other way.
Last quarter you talked about doing $400 million of contributions.
You kind of talked about it as if that was in the bag.
And it looks like you guys only completed about $100 million.
I mean what are we supposed to read into that? I mean it just get pushed to January 1 just a timing issue or you're getting a little bit of push back from your fund investors on taking some of these properties? No this is Tom it's all about timing.
We looked to amass a certain amount of scale.
And if we see another asset that might be leasing up ahead of schedule we will wait to amass that versus trying to do that as a one-off or waiting.
So it's really timing.
We feel very good about it.
The process is very transparent on contributions.
We don't have an obligation to sell.
Our partners or ventures don't have an obligation to acquire but we go through fair value.
So there is nothing there from a process standpoint that has changed or a lack of desire; it's really timing.
But you can see that timing shift when you look at our numbers right.
As far as the $1 billion that even without contributions we see about $1 billion that's really locked and loaded as we looked to the next quarter and a half.
$600 million of that Facebook and redemption is gosh two months away.
And your next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Had a follow-up for Tom.
So you talked a lot about the $1 billion net proceeds coming in.
What's that capital going to be used for and how should we think about that flowing through the model? Because it doesn't look like there's a lot of debt maturities for this year and it doesn't look like there's a lot of the higher coupon unsecured debt that you guys have tendered for in the past that's available.
Yeah.
So right now if you go through that we would be sitting on about $400 million of cash at the end of the year.
So we've got the KTR debt of $400 million that we talked about and there's a little bit of secured that's maturing.
But yeah the model would imply that we would end the year with about $400 million give or take of cash.
And nothing on those lines or...
Line's undrawn.
...that term loan.
And your next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hard to get out the queue.
Well actually is the promoting come is that expected to substantially hit or all hit in the third quarter with the European funds? Hey Mike.
I thought we almost had a first: somebody dropping out of the line.
Tom go ahead.
So again we've got three promotes two of which will hit in the third quarter one in the fourth quarter.
Just if you look sheer size of the AUM that's promote eligible it's clearly Q3 would be the larger quarter than Q4.
And your next question comes from the line of Dave Rodgers with Baird.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Tom could you give us a breakdown on the land sales and land sale gains as a part of the 2016 outlook? I did not hear it if you gave it.
And then the second was I guess given where your leverage metrics are given the high amount of liquidity that you have are you guys angling for a debt ratings upgrade at any point particularly going into the GICS code change later this year for investors? Just curious about that as well.
Okay.
So I'll give you – directionally as Hamid said we want our land bank to go down in 2016.
What's baked in there I don't have the precise numbers is probably the land bank dropping about – net about $200 million.
Regarding – we feel really good about our balance sheet.
We feel good about our plan and our flexibility.
As we've said before we feel that we're clearly on the path to an A rating.
When that happens that's up to the rating agencies.
But tell you what I feel extremely good about our plan I feel extremely good about our balance sheet and I'll leave it at that.
Yeah.
The one easy way of thinking about it is that our original plan had us getting to that point this year and when we consciously did the KTR transaction we elected to postpone that goal by a year but we're committed to it and we will get there.
(45:17) And your next question comes from the line of Eric Frankel of Green Street Advisors.
Your line is open.
LLC</span></strong> Thank you.
Just two quick follow-up questions.
One now that the Morris portfolio is closed and I guess you completed the eight parts of that transaction that were required maybe you could give some broad economics of how that deal is working out.
And then second obviously we all understand how REITs have kind of traded down all stocks have traded down at the start of the year and you're also (45:45) about cap rates have stayed pretty stable if not come down a little bit.
Any thoughts to just taking advantage of really high private market values and delevering further even if it's past your leverage goals and just waiting for something to happen in the future even with fundamentals being relatively strong? So let me take that latter question and Gene will address the Morris transaction.
Everything in good time.
Let's get to our first objective which we've outlined which is to fully fund KTR.
I think we'll do that ahead of plan.
We'll end up with a lot of cash on balance sheet and we'll figure out what – how to best deploy that cash.
And we're not at all afraid of selling more assets if we believe that's the prudent thing to do.
So we sit here and give forecast for something for 12 months from now and the world will change.
So for sure we'll do something different than the plan that we've outlined for you but it's our best guess.
But we're looking at all those trade-offs every day.
So Eric on the Morris deal I mean the quick answer is that deal was right at about a 5% cap and that's $370 million of industrial.
We had a couple million of development come with that.
$1 million of that was leased before we closed and we have leases working on the balance.
So the industrial part of it has worked out very well.
I mean that deal took a long time obviously and values came our way during that period of time.
And in terms of the retail sale that was in and out in one quarter and on plan.
So a long difficult deal but we ended up probably slightly better than expected.
And your next question comes from the line of Jon Petersen with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Just one follow-up – actually two follow-ups.
On the promote you mentioned how it doesn't impact selling properties doesn't matter; it's on appraised value I get that.
But I'm curious what the IRR return is over the last three years like what the assumption is that gets you to your $95 million midpoint in promotes.
It's not our assumption.
It's based on third-party appraisals and the IRRs would be really high because a lot of these promote the calculations have thresholds of preferred returns of around I don't know anywhere between 6% and 8% per year.
But because of obviously cap rate compression and extraordinary rental growth over the last couple years promotes for this coming cycle if values hold up are going to be really really high.
But they are not indicative of sustainable levels of promotes for sure.
But there is a – I don't know there's a $0.05 or $0.06 level of promote that we feel is pretty sustainable and growing over time even in a normalized market environment.
And for the foreseeable future we're going to exceed that.
And there may be some years we'll fall short of that like in 2009 2010 and 2011.
But I think those kinds of numbers are repeatable.
And your final question comes from the line of John Guinee with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> One question on the dividend and earnings per share numbers are not particularly accurate when it comes to taxable income.
But it looks to us like your earnings per share for 2015 was $1.64.
You paid $1.60 dividend.
What's the correlation there? And then your guidance for 2016 on an EPS basis starts out surprisingly low at $0.28 to $0.36 given your balance sheet.
We're surprised how low that is.
Is it possible in this forum to talk through why the earnings per share for 2016 is so low? And can you – and what the ramp up would be to get up to the $1.60 dividend? John this is Tom.
So net income is not the right place to start right.
You really should look at quite frankly AFFO would be a better indicator on relative dividend strength.
In relation to the net income we do not include in there any gains at all in that number.
We – it's footnoted in there.
So that's why that number would appear low.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Perfect.
Okay.
Thank you.
Well thank you everyone.
Really appreciate your interest in the company and look forward to staying in touch.
Bye-bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call and you may now disconnect.