Good day and welcome to the Philip Morris International First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Nick Rolli Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Welcome and thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we issued a news release containing detailed information on our 2011 first quarter results.
You may access the release on our website at www.pmi.com.
During our call today we’ll be talking about results for the first quarter 2011 and comparing them with the same period in 2010 unless otherwise stated.
References to PMI volumes are for PMI shipments industry volume and market shares are the latest data available from a number of internal and external sources.
Organic volume refers to volume excluding acquisitions which for this purposes of the -- of this presentation also include our business combination with Fortune Tobacco Corporation in the Philippines.
Net revenues exclude excise taxes.
Operating companies income or OCI is defined as operating income before general corporate expenses and the amortization of intangibles.
You'll find data tables showing how we made adjustments to net revenues and OCI for currency acquisitions asset impairment exit and other costs free cash flow calculations and adjustments to earnings per share or EPS as well as reconciliations to U.S.
GAAP measures at the end of today's webcast slides which are posted on our web site.
Today's remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results and I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statements disclosure in today's presentation and news release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
It's now my pleasure to introduce Hermann Waldemer our Chief Financial Officer.
Hermann? Welcome ladies and gentlemen.
We reported a very strong financial performance during the first quarter most notably an increase in our adjusted diluted EPS of 14.4% excluding currency.
The events in Japan and North Africa while distressing only resulted in temporary logistical disruptions for our company and did not have a material financial impact on our overall results in the quarter.
Thus again emphasizing the advantages of our businesses truly global footprint.
As reflected early February our organic volume performance was dampened by anticipated softness in Japan Mexico Pakistan Spain and Ukraine as well as by the events in North Africa.
Indeed these markets collectively soften the volume erosion of 8.4 billion units or 18.5%.
All other markets contributing slightly more than 80% of our volume base grew their combined volume at an organic rate of 1%.
I am delighted to announce that we are increasing our reported diluted EPS guidance for 2011 by $0.20 to a range of $4.55 to $4.65 compared to an adjusted diluted EPS of $3.87 in 2010.
This corresponds to an increase of approximately 17.5% to 20% at prevailing exchange rates and approximately 12.5% to 15% excluding currency.
$0.10 or half the increased guidance are attributable to more favorable prevailing exchange rates.
The other $0.10 are attributable to an improved business outlook in several markets including France Germany Indonesia Japan Mexico the Netherlands and Turkey partly offset as some additional investments in marketing and sales in slightly more conservative pricing assumptions.
As you are all aware Japan Tobacco is facing significant supply disruptions as a result of the tragic events in its home market.
It is our understanding that food supply will gradually be in place within the next few weeks.
We in turn have taken all necessary measures to ensure that we have sufficient in market inventories to supply the market and fill the anticipated temporary vacuum that is likely to occur.
While we have certainly witnessed a moderate lift to our in market sales in the last few weeks you should know that there are still competitive products available for sale in numerous retail accounts.
And accordingly it is proving difficult to go up to full extent of the likely uplift in sales.
As retail stocks of our principal competitor's product disappear we will be in a better position to determine such levels.
We anticipate that the second quarter will prove critical in this regard.
It will allow us to have a much better read on total consumption levels and whether or not and to what extent consumers will return to their prior brand of choice.
At this point we face significant uncertainty.
But rest assured that all actions are in place to optimize our entire supply chain.
We have a positive momentum in the Japanese market but our share increased by 1.4 points to 25.6% in the first quarter of this year driven by the success of consumer element innovative Marlboro line extensions.
Our slightly more conservative pricing assumptions are attributable to the continued economic difficulties in consumer affordability issues in such markets as Greece Spain and Ukraine and the need to react to certain competitive price moves such as selective tax absorption and repositioning price discounting and delays in the implementation of tax driven price increases.
Pricing will nevertheless remain the key driver of profitability growth at PMI and our pricing variants in 2011 is expected to surpass the level achieved last year.
Overall our competitiveness is strong and our business is in good shape.
This is notably demonstrated by the results during the first quarter in our Asia region.
Volume was up 14% in the quarter and on an organic basis it was down just 1.7%.
Marlboro continued to perform strongly in the Asia region with volume up 0.7% overall and by 5.5% excluding Japan.
During the first quarter we achieved volume and share gains in the key markets of Indonesia Korea and the Philippines.
In Indonesia we expect industry volume to grow by around 4% this year despite the potential unfavorable impact of higher food prices on consumer disposable income.
Our technical entry last year into the low price segment in several regions has enabled us to start to grow market share again.
In Korea we achieved a record market share of 17.8% in the first quarter.
With both Marlboro and Parliament driving our success.
In the Philippines we expect the industry volume this year will be broadly in line with last year following tax driven price increases in January this year.
Both Marlboro and Fortune are gaining share in this promising market and we are making good progress in realizing our brand synergy savings.
Our financial results in the Asia region were excellent as net revenues up by 11.6% and adjusted OCI by 34% both excluding currency and acquisitions.
The other market in the Asia region that has been in the news recently is Australia that the government has released an exposure draft of its Plain Packaging Bill which would mandate Plain Packaging in 2012.
It has opened the consultation period on the matter through June 6.
PMI is firmly opposed to such emission as there is no credible evidence that it will achieve any reduction in smoking rates and the government has ignored the fact that it may actually be counter protective to public health.
Plain Packaging will lead to price erosion over time and will further encourage the growth of illicit trade which already increased in Australia by over 25% in 2010 according to a recent Deloyed [ph] study.
Plain Packaging will also result in the illegal confiscation of our trademarks and branded assets in violation of international trade laws and treaties.
Unlike other governments which have focused on establishing whether there is evidence to demonstrate that plain packaging would have public health benefits taking into consideration issues such as competition trade and legal implication as well as the likely impact on illicit trade.
The Australian government seems to be forging ahead without due consideration of any of these important issues.
PMI will take all measures it deems appropriate including recourse to the courts if necessary to oppose the Australian government proposal.
Our overall performance was also very good in the Latin America and Canada region despite the significant impact on volume of the disruptively large excess tax increase that occurred in January in Mexico.
Industry volume in Mexico during the first quarter was down by 27% though the underlying decline is estimated to have been about 14%.
Marlboro and Benson &amp; Hedges have remained resilient with Marlboro reaching a quarterly market share of 50.3% up 1.6 share points.
Across the region Marlboro has been performing strongly with markets share gains in all key markets.
On a regional basis strong pricing of over 15.7% increase in adjusted OCI and a 1.9 point improvement in adjusted OCI margin both excluding currency.
While the economies of most emerging markets have now almost fully recovered those of Southern Europe remained depressed with unemployment still continuing to climb most notably in Greece Portugal and Spain.
Industry volume was down by 25% in the first quarter in Spain as the situation was exacerbated by the introduction of a total indoor smoking ban tax driven price increases a reduction in trade inventories and a sharp increase in contraband off a low base.
For the full year the industry volume in Spain is forecasted to decline by around 15% and consumer down trading is expected to continue.
It is worth noting that competitors have introduced or repositioned plants below the kick-in level of the minimum excise tax and have thus not rolled over the full effects of the most recent excise tax increase.
Greece continued to be a drag on PMI results in the first quarter with industry volume down 10% consumer down trading due to a large price gaps and a difficult comparison as this market was not impacted by a large tax increases until the second quarter of last year.
While there have been recently structural improvements in the excise tax system one crucial reform remains to be introduced an effective minimum excise tax.
In addition a highest specific-to-total tax ratio would also benefit government revenues.
Excluding just Spain industry volume in the EU region in the first quarter was down 2.5% in line with a longer-term consumption decline trends.
PMI net revenues in the EU region were down 3.5% and adjusted OCI by 2.3% in the first quarter both excluding currency.
This was driven by the lower industry volume and the decline of 0.4 share points on a regional basis.
We expect our performance in the EU region to be helped this year by structural excise tax improvements implemented by governments in France Greece the Netherlands Sweden and the U.K.
following the new and improved EU excise tax directive that will be enforced through 2018.
In addition both Germany and the Czech Republic has implemented multi-year excise tax programs calling for regular reasonable increases.
The first step in the German tax increase program will take place this May.
PMI has announced a €0.20 per pack of 19 cigarettes price increase across its portfolio while the pure pass on require €0.04 for Marlboro and €0.11 for L&amp;M.
This will be a benefit to profitability in the German market and our decision to eventually follow competitive moves by also offering discounts on large excises enabled us to regain 0.5 share points in the first quarter to 35.7%.
Thanks to the continued stellar performance of L&amp;M and a stable Marlboro share.
In parallel we increased our share in the important German fine cut market by 0.9 points to 14.9%.
In both Italy and France industry volume was stable in the first quarter.
In Italy Marlboro has been performing well.
Its quarterly share was down just 0.1% to 2.5%.
And more importantly it's share amongst young adult smokers or YAS defined as legal age minimum 18- to 24-year-olds has been growing again following the launch of Marlboro Gold Touch and remains well above about its market share.
In France a slightly improved market share performance has been driven by the continued growth of the premium priced Philip Morris brand who's quarterly share grew a further 0.6 points to 8.2% and the brand YAS share has reached 16%.
More generally we have witnessed greater resilience of Marlboro across the EU region with share of just 0.1 point in the quarter at 17.8% and notable gains in Belgium Hungary the Netherlands and Poland.
And a strong momentum continued to further 0.2 share point gain to 6.1% driven not only by Germany but also by Greece the Netherlands Portugal and Sweden.
Our volume in the EEMA region decreased by 0.8% driven by the continued industry decline and low and share losses in Ukraine as well as some temporary logistical disruptions in North Africa partly offset by favorable comparisons in Romania and Turkey where the large excess tax increases in January 2010 but none this year.
Premium brands accounted for more than 40% of our regional volume for the first time since the last quarter of 2008 with increased volumes for both Marlboro and Parliament.
The Russian market was influenced in the first quarter by the impact of rampant food price inflation resulting from last summer's heat wave and drought as well as by cigarette price increases.
For the full year we are forecasting industry volume will decline moderately and consumer up trading may be more modest than originally expected.
Our volume declined by 0.8% in the quarter and a 25.5%.
Our 2011 quarter on share was up compared with the fourth quarter but down 0.2 share points year-on-year.
This was driven by the timing of the implementation of tax driven price increases as well as increased price gaps at the bottom of the market.
In Ukraine we have observed the market contraction and the greater polarization with growth in the premium and super low price segments.
PMI is underrepresented in the latter and consequently we lost 3.6 share points through the end of February compared to the same period in 2010.
We have started to address the share issue by strengthening on schedule.
The Turkish economy has been performing very strongly.
During the first quarter of this year industry volume in Turkey was down by a modest 2.1% compared to last year and the market was significantly impacted by large tax driven price increases.
Our volume increased by 10.4% driven by Parliament Merit and L&amp;M.
Net revenues and adjusted OCI in the EEMA region were down by 1.7% and 4.4% respectively both excluding currency.
However also excluding the tax price influence in Q1 2010 adjusted OCI would have grown at a double-digit range.
Our good share momentum continues.
In the first quarter this year our share in our top 30 OCI markets increased by 0.5 points to 35.8%.
Our market share momentum supported by the strong performance of our two key premium brands: Marlboro and Parliament.
Marlboro volume declined by 2.9% in the quarter driven by the specific issues I mentioned about Japan Mexico and Spain.
In all the other markets together Marlboro volume was up 0.5% in the quarter and the brands global market share trends continues to improve.
While many consumer goods sectors are being impacted by significant increases in the cost of raw materials we are expecting stable U.S.
dollar prices for the 2011 tobacco leaf growth driven mainly by a larger crop in Brazil.
Direct material prices are also stable so far this year despite higher energy costs.
For the full year we expect manufacturing costs to increase probably in line with inflation partly offset by our $250 million annual productivity and cost reduction target which we are fully on track to achieve.
Strong pricing most notably in Japan as well as our continued focus on productivity improvements resulted in an increase of 2.2 points during the first quarter in PMI's adjusted OCI margin excluding currency and acquisitions.
Our free cash flow increased by 22.6% in the quarter to $2.2 billion and by 21.1% excluding currency driven by higher net earnings lower pension contributions and lower cash exit costs.
We continue to focus on reducing inventory levels though it should be noted that year-end working capital requirements remain subject to the level of tax price increases and our success in convincing elements around the world to implement strict forestalling regulations.
During the first quarter we spent some $1.36 billion to repurchase 22.2 million shares at an average price of $61.21.
We continue to expect to spend about $5 billion in total this year on share repurchases.
In summary our results this year so far has been very strong and our business outlook is favorable though the positive impact of Japan is difficult to measure at this time.
We will increase our investment behind our portfolio of leading brands and are being slightly more conservative on our pricing assumptions to ensure that we remain competitive in our key markets.
We have raised our 2011 reported diluted EPS guidance by $0.20 to $4.55 to $4.65 to reflect our positive business momentum and more favorable exchange rates and we will continue to use our strong cash flow to generously reward our shareholders.
Thank you.
I will now be happy to answer your questions.
Operator can we take questions please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
First in Japan So I think you said total cigarette market was down 16.4% in the first quarter.
So it looks like that's coming -- that is in the 20% decline that I think you projected at the outset of the year and it also implies that March was even better than the run rate in January and February.
So have you seen any changes to just the underlying demand decline post the earthquake? And then what are you assuming for the market decline as a whole for 2011 at this point? Okay.
Yes we have previously assumed and annualized the 20% decline annualized i.e.
October last year to September of this year.
Your number on the year-to-date actual 16.4% is correct.
I think we better look at the year-to-date February number which is 17.1 17.5 percentage points down because there has been already some consumer hoarding of product in March [indiscernible].
But yes there is of course an improvement over all.
From thereon of course what is going to be the effect of the tragic events itself that's very hard to predict.
But let's put it this way we don't see accreting in the market.
Okay.
And then just in terms of your assumptions that’s embedded in your guidance as it relates to any market share gains that you might experience as a result of Japan Tobacco's disruption.
At this point given it's difficult to gauge are you embedding any upside in terms of the market share situation in Japan? Okay I'll give you the elements.
But let me say in general first that of course there are scenarios possible and of course scenario plannings.
We have not taken the most conservative one.
We have not taken the most bullish scenario that you could take.
We kind of went into the -- some middle ground and that is a net-net means for the past half of the increased business guidance is attributable to Japan.
Now let me give you a little bit the elements there which go into which at the same time make it so hard to give a clear cut on.
So but I'll try to do my best to describe the situation.
I mean yes year-to-date share we said that's up to 1.4 to 25.6%.
In March itself the share was up 2.9 points to 26.5%.
So essentially it looks like we cover more than 60% of JP's temporary losses of there but now of course to estimate today what the retention level is going to be thereafter is impossible to predict now.
I would say only one thing I would expect it to be lower given the market Japan given the Japanese consumer than it would be otherwise in another market somewhere in the world.
And then when it comes to the potential volume benefits of that disruption well of course the first question mark is how long is the disruption going to last.
So how many of the SKUs will come how quickly back into the markets actually how efficient JP can be with the replenishment of the product pipeline then we have seen -- we have mentioned that in the prepared remarks that we have fairly high retail stocks out there higher than what we originally have thought.
So consumers who are searching for their brand.
So when that comes together of course what we made sure already in the first year for the March but mostly now in the second quarter.
Then of course we have the products available in the Japanese markets but the shipment number that you see is of course only the number essentially driving of course the financials of shipments from our factories to our importer that is not the number of in market sales or even of consumer uptick.
So all that together these are the elements and that gave us the conclusion I mentioned it at the very beginning and that leads to net result of about half of the increased business guidance is assumed to be attributable to Japan.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just your commentary about taking a little bit more conservative pricing assumption and then more investments behind your brand.
Is this a little bit of a different posture just in terms of the last 2 or 3 years where you’ve really focus on more on getting the pricing utilization at the expense of volume? And it is there a little bit more urgency at this point to make sure that you're getting some of that volume back or the volume decline to show some moderation in some of these more challenging markets? No.
I mean the first and most important points to say yet again is that we continue to expect that our pricing variance 2011 is going to exceed the pricing variance of 2010.
Already there I think tells you a lot.
Also in our general approach they know me saying that the earnings per share are more important than cigarettes per share for the shareholder.
Also that conviction has not changed.
The thing simply is I have been discussing and reporting on skirmishes here and there already in the past and we see a little more of those connected brand repositionings and other technical moves.
And to those you simply then have to respond and we have to protect your competitive position.
I'll give you one example maybe if you look to Russia where we had announced the price increase in December wherein the market with new prices in January.
Other competitors have made public their decisions later on.
And still today kind of we see now the last competitor coming into the market with new prices right now in April after an announcement in January.
This is the type of thing.
All right.
Okay.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of David Adelman with Morgan Stanley.
Two things I wanted to ask you.
Two different markets.
First in Russia there's been some chatter in the press from different politicians about the prospect of a fairly substantial multi-year excise tax increase in that market.
What's your read on what's really happening and what's likely to happen once you get beyond 2011? Okay.
Well the discussion essentially has started for final tax decisions for January 2012.
As you know there is an existing law in place that brings the ad valorem rate as of January 1 2012 from 7% to 7.5% and specific from 280 RUB to 360 RUB.
That is a 30% increase of a specific component and the discussion that was very much in the media was to double the increase of its specific component eventually from 30% to 60%.
So it is the start of a discussion final decisions I would not expect them before the end of the year October probably even November of this year.
This has been -- this would have finalized but what you hear there in the press is by no means final.
Okay.
And then Hermann I wanted to ask you -- Australia with respect to Plain Packaging can you give us some sense of the relative strength of your arguments with respect to x appropriation intellectual property the confiscation of your business if they do implement Plain Packaging in that market versus the strength or the relative strength of the legal arguments in your defense that you could bring forward in other developed markets if other markets were to pursue similar types of legislation.
Well let me describe a little bit the situation there.
I mean for understandable reasons I would not want to go into the legal strategy here but I can give the parameters.
So it's not only Australia.
It's also the U.K.
that go through a consultation period right now.
The difference being that in Australia it's a consultation on a draft legislation whereas in the U.K.
it's a matter of concept.
In Australia the government appears to be predetermined.
In the U.K.
this all appears to be following a normal regular process.
In terms of now expropriation of trademarks confiscations of our business you raise one of the three critical facts that governments must look at and that also Australia must look at because there are of course litigation possibilities both under Australian law and under Australia's obligations under international treaties and laws.
So those are the 2 avenues.
That litigation situation and the leading situation has actually not changed compared to the time when Australia itself and also the U.K.
before had been looking at the situation.
And in both cases both in Australia and the U.K.
the head comes to the conclusion not to implement the measure.
So you would think still that whether is no change in facts but also should be no change in outcomes.
So much of the background but please bear with me it would not be wise to go into discussion of the legal strategy itself.
Your next question comes from the line of John Fell with Deutsche Bank.
I have two things as well.
First of all a quick one.
Was there any trade loading in Germany in advance of the tax increase in EU? And secondly you referred to -- to invest more in your brands and marketing are there any particular regions or countries where you think there's a need to not just spend versus what it is now? Okay.
In Germany well it definitely remains to be seen.
Certainly we've seen all ready now some uptick in consumer purchases but you refer to trade.
Well we will have to see what individual competitors have done i.e.
what their respective stocks of old tax old price volumes will be.
That's -- I don't know.
We will have to see what the outcome there is.
But nothing that impacted you abnormally in the first quarter? No not in the first quarter.
No.
Actually if there is something it is probably within the second quarter and will have washed out by the end of the second quarter.
And your second question on investments well this is very very specific and we talk about individual large markets where we see consumer response and will immediate return.
So it's not just spreading a little bit more money over there.
Are there any particular regions where you see those opportunities? Or are they are really sort of global but individual as well? You would look at probably at the Asia and the EEMA region where there is going to be bigger growth potential of course.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Christine Farkas with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
My question for you -- or two questions for you.
Firstly you talked about half of the increased business guidance outlook coming from Japan.
I'm wondering if you can elaborate perhaps on where the other half of that business outlook is coming from.
Okay.
The other half would be a series of markets.
Some example's here.
Yes the first one Germany.
You heard about the price.
You also heard about the improved share performance.
Another one would be Turkey where turkey has come fairly quickly out of the crisis they were in last year and market size declined of 2% only in the first quarter is a good sign in our share performance.
It's really doing -- we are really doing well in the market again thanks to a complete portfolio.
So we are doing pretty well there in terms of shares.
Mexico well we had expected decline there a market reaction.
If you're kind of take out of the 27% decline in that market in the first quarter if you take out really the trade load effect over year end and if you take out also additional cylinders that you have in this quarter compared to last year then you're either in the 14% or say in the 13% to 15%.
But that's better and the second good news in Mexico really is that the premium segment is holding on very well.
You see a Marlboro share is growing.
Premium is holding on better than the low end.
So no down trading in the market.
That's good news as well.
Indonesia we're already doing well share performance pricing we have implemented market size growth fairly nicely.
France good news essentially a stable market and now improved share performance as well.
Holland will be another example of very solid share performance.
So it's in a number of places...
Okay so it sounds like rather than just better than expected performance in the first quarter there's some sustainable reasons for your outlook in a number of markets for the rest of the year.
Absolutely.
Okay and my second question really has to do with Romania.
Just because you called out the market as seeing reduced illicit trade.
And I'm wondering how that’s being accomplished successfully.
Is that sustainable and are there other regions that could follow suit? The other situations in terms of illicit trade has improved quite a bit.
This ones been about 30%.
I would say this is probably has gone down in the range of 10 percentage points.
Well let's put it this way it is always a sequence of 2 things first you need to attract the attention of everyone including the governments which we did in Romania which is well [ph] other places as well.
We'll take Canada that was another example that you first need to get their attention and then you need the willingness of government to put enforcement behind.
And we have seen that in both countries as well again both Romania and Canada.
So it's the 2 elements.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And just a quick follow-up on pricing.
You did talk about Russia as an example where there’s some repositioning of competitive brands and that perhaps might lead to some more conservative pricing on the aggregate.
But I'm wondering if it's really quite isolated to Russia or any other markets where you feel this is necessary rather than a broad statement of product positioning in pricing around the world.
No.
It's a little bit more skirmishes as I said in selective repositionings and other tactics Russia was one example.
I give you another one I mean in Spain -- you see I mean -- the minimum tax kick in is at EUR 3.66 and we have prices in the market at EUR 3.40 and EUR 3.35 even.
So there is a year absorption of the last tax increase.
So that's just another example or remember the one that we have been discussing earlier which was the discounting on the big and so called maxi packs in the German market.
So it is hidden there.
It is skirmishes here and there.
But again really look at our first quarter pricing variance which is very strong and all set of statement that the sum of the pricing variance 2011 is going to be greater than the one of 2010.
That’s very helpful Hermann.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I had two questions for you to follow up on Japan.
Not to continue harping on that but I wonder just curious you gave a number at a presentation I think it was you that about some amount of product you have in the market I think it was $10 billion sticks sort of in Japan and I wondered if there was I think that number.
So I guess I'm curious you have a long lead time to get a product into that market.
Has there been a quicker draw down because of the consumer response are you able to keep up with the inventory needs in that market? Yes we are keeping up with the inventory needs.
Yes sir.
I mean our effort is coming out of the European factories you are correct.
By ship that's a long way.
By the air freight it's quicker.
And we have to take a recourse to air freight in order to get some volume in.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then I wondered if there was any potential to spend a little more heavily in Japan perhaps to use some of the benefit or windfall whatever you want to call it to try and sustain some of this market share.
Is that part of your thinking for the remainder of the year for what you could do in Japan to potentially hold onto some of this market share? Yes.
But I mean Japan of course in terms of spending overall already before any of that happened is one of our focused markets in there as I was just illustrating the air freight that is also cost some additional costs.
If you simply have due to the situation there this is distribution and logistical costs.
We will certainly also do everything we can in terms of brand support as we saw our shares are developing very very nicely.
However really I think the Japanese situation with the country in trouble believes to different average behavior of a consumer then it would be the case elsewhere.
So I believe that the retention levels probably will be lower and there will be in another country? To what extent? Some of them of course we will be able to return I would think.
To what extent that today is just impossible to say.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay and then just one follow-up for you and that's on the premium segment in general.
In particular I was looking at Russia where Marlboro’s down and you clearly outlined a few factors that could be leading to that as some of your competitors have not passed along some of the price increase.
But just generally across the premium segment I saw a good performance overall on the Parliament brand for you and Marlboro itself has had a few troubled market.
It looks like it's doing quite well.
Would you characterize this is being still serving up trading market you're still seeing broadly across your business? Yes I would say -- I mean if you -- now going beyond Russia and talking about a worldwide picture then yes.
Since if you go back to say probably middle of 2008 i.e.
before any of the crisis hits and you compare it to today then you would have seen a shift -- from a very moderate shift maybe 1% to 2% from premium and mid to the low ends.
Now talking total worldwide volumes for half range.
But actually if you would look at that more recently say over the last three to six months then you would have a slowdown or even a stoppage of that effect and I believe we are at the point there now where there's improved economies around the world.
Our premium portfolio will serve us very very well.
It’s just there are still a couple of markets out there the known ones where like in southern Europe where the situation is still difficult but overall I clearly see a return to our trading over time.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay thank so much for your time.
You're welcome.
Our next question comes from the line of Jon Leinster with UBS.
A couple of questions.
First of all just on the Western and the Canada region can you give us a bit more detail about why profitability is so strong given that Mexico is -- volumes are so heavily down -- Mexico is by far your biggest profit center there.
Well Mexico is a very profitable market and the price increase has helped.
So that is certainly a good part of the reason for the strong performance.
It's not only Mexico it is also the profitable markets in that region take Canada where you had again an increase in development market size or you take Argentina where we continue a stellar performance and I'll audit the market share essentially in the range of three quarters of the market.
So there are others but Mexico is an important.
So Mexican profits are still well off despite the volume decline? Say it again.
So Mexico...
So Mexican profits are still well off despite the volume decline? Yes they are [indiscernible] by the price increase.
Okay and going back to Russia I mean as you pointed out the volume declines of Marlboro and L&amp;M are noticeable is that due to the actual segments that premium and the mix price of the L&amp;M being down or is that more of a brand-specific decline? And if it is brand specific particularly if L&amp;M clearly we launched that a couple of years ago.
What's the next step trying to stop Winston? Well of course you're referring to delayed increases of tax driven price increases before so it's easy to grow share at the level of price.
Going back now to the portfolio itself to our portfolio.
In the premium segment let me remind you that actually Parliament in Russia is a bigger brand than Marlboro actually also with much higher margins than Marlboro and Parliament is doing very very well.
Marlboro itself yes to be self-critical here yes we need to do more work on the brand Marlboro in the Russian market and we have plans in order to strengthen the brand going forward into this year.
From there you go to Chesterfield which is a strong higher- and medium-price brand.
L&amp;M which had suffered over the last couple of years that too.
That is not an easy situation and then you go to the next one to Bond Street that we have had tremendous increases i.e.
we have the best target train international low-price brand in the market.
And then if you go further down actually as we speak there is now a lot of price competition going on at a very low end which is also very low margin and at that time the trends like Java [ph] and others which are at very low prices.
But it sounds like the decline there is from L&amp;M.
This brand relative in sort of segments specific and it's like -- given we launched L&amp;M a couple of years ago is there anything more that you can do? Yes I was mentioning -- I was saying that yes we have to work on L&amp;M to do we have work to do on Marlboro to do but then it goes to segments then the story is different.
Overall in the premium segment we're speaking about Parliament the segment itself premium is doing well and we are having a good share in there medium including Chesterfield we are doing well and now there is simply intense price competition as well at the very low end which is chasing market share for not much margin.
Okay.
Thanks so much guys.
You're welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of the Rogerio Fujimori with Crédit Suisse.
Two quick questions about Australia.
First you see this segment still far more profitable than the premium segment in your non-OECD markets.
And second could you please just remind us about the price positioning along the region that projects in those shipment trials are bigger brand there? Okay.
First segment yes.
What's called super low in Australia is still very very profitable.
That's correct and we still used the margin of a premium brand elsewhere.
But the positioning of the other brands are mid-priced to premium-price brands.
So we are present across the market.
But overall in the market yes there is a certain trend towards the lower end.
But as you said yourself in the beginning this lower end is still very profitable end.
We covered Japan but could you also talk about the shape of the quarter for their key markets that drag the good volume performance in the first quarter? I just wanted to have an idea of the effectuates.
I just wanted to have an idea if things are going worse stable or better particularly places like Ukraine and Spain? Thank you.
Okay.
Concretely now on the Ukraine -- so you want me to comment on the Ukraine or more on the overall volumes things around the world? What is the question? It's more of the -- particularly on the markets that drive your performance in the first quarter.
And I think you talked about all ready about Japan.
So I think the ones left are mostly Ukraine something else [indiscernible] will be appreciated.
Thanks.
Okay absolutely.
Ukraine first.
I mean on one end this is of course a country which has actually very good macroeconomic trends right now.
However when it comes to the cigarette market then the price increase effects on the market on the consumer are simply not over yet.
So I mean for the price that you buy today a low priced product you could have bought a bit more than two years ago.
You could have bought a super premium Parliament brand so that's really what's happening in the market.
As a consequence of that you really see polarization of the market.
You see the premium segment almost stable.
Actually our share are doing very very well.
But then in particular in our case you see a very competitive low-price brand and for us share losses at the very low price range so there is intense competition really at the low end completely polarizing market in there.
So that's pretty much the situation in the Ukraine.
It will come down -- calm down over time but it is a difficult situation right now and there are many price promotions actually in place in that market.
Now moving over to Spain what I would say Spain is still very difficult because there are too many negatives at play for the economy to start with.
We still have a stagnating GDP.
We still have unemployment at 20%.
Actually 1.3 million households out of 17.3 million households total in the country I was told actually in this 1.3 million households both partners are unemployed just to give you an impression of the problem.
So not surprisingly consumer confidence is low and the only positive for the economy overall is a recovery in tourism.
So in that context it's not a surprise that the cigarette market is really depressed not to the level of the 25% that you see in the actual numbers of the first quarter because there is an important trade stock reduction in there as well and there is the effect of a total smoking ban in all the countries of Germany [ph] of this year in there as well.
So probably 15% is a better number for the full year.
One filament [ph] also you see in the market now beginning in particular in the South we have made a recent self study in 3 of the Southern cities Seville Malici [ph] and Paris there almost 25% of the consumption were not Spanish tax paid products.
So that is about double what it was a year before.
That's just a snapshot that by no means is representative for Spain's total market it has always been higher in the South than anywhere else.
But that's also of course something adding into the problems and in such a situation it is not a surprise that you see down trading in the market and even more so of course the more you go South the more down trading you see.
So that's a good presentation on Spain.
Thank you very much Hermann.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer with Citigroup.
Not to belabor the point but I wanted to circle back to Russia and in particular on your expectations for excise tax increases as they stand now.
If memory serves I believe you guys are looking for roughly a 22% increase in 2012 and another 50 basis point increase in 7.5%.
I'm just wondering as is stands today do you think that's adequately conservative? I believe it falls notably below the 30% to 40% increase JT looking for.
Well I would say that I have to say again -- I mean you have one fixed point here which is the existing law.
Ad valorem 7% to 7.5% specific from RUB 280 to RUB 360.
The most discussion about the doubling of the specific element but this is a discussion and you will hear many more people giving their input in this -- into this discussion until the end of the year.
At this point in time I feel it is impossible to predict the final outcome.
As I said earlier I mean don't expect a decision there before October or even November of this year.
We are only in April.
So a lot of water is going to go down the wall guards [ph] and we know that.
Okay fair enough.
The other question that I have on Russia given your market share trend this quarter presumably before the skirmish that corrupted in April from one of your competitors it seems like there has been a resumption to a certain extent in down trading in the market.
And if that's right that surprises me given your commentary last month on the stabilization.
And I know you highlighted the up trading could be prohibited by price increases but it's still kind of surprises me.
Is there anything else that kind of caught you guys off guard a little bit in terms of the consumer trend because the food inflation that was almost a year ago? So I'm surprised by the change in tone.
Yes.
I mean it is the price increase effect.
I mean as we highlighted earlier and you mentioned it.
There is of course a certain effect in there.
Don't forget that really the recovery of the economy lies to see it in the big cities of Russia.
It hasn't really reached the countryside yet.
And in that context the rising food prices are a concern because those have gone up quite a bit after last year's summer heat and the drought thereafter and the hardest problems that occurred as a consequence.
So it is those two elements.
Okay fair enough.
My last question has to do with your Marlboro market shares in the EU.
Certainly you know I know so many markets make up that whole number but it strikes me as potentially troubling that you've seen 2 sequential quarters of market share losses from Marlboro.
I'm just wondering if you could drill down a little bit into how to break down for Marlboro and the line extension that you’ve been putting into the market? Okay.
Let me give you some information there on Marlboro -- how it performs in the EU region.
By variance those numbers had -- I wouldn’t know by heart but at the end of the day they are part of the Marlboro franchise and we do those for incremental volumes but also for the halo effect on the entire brand.
Now essentially going into it if you look at the EU I’m at -0.1 I think I justifiably call an overall state of performance in the EU albeit it's true that they are considerable market variations within the EU.
Poland would be an example where the market share of Marlboro nicely up more than one share point to about 10.5% share.
That is clearly up trading and that is in effect that you will see also elsewhere.
So there's up trading potential for Marlboro in central Europe’ let me call it in general.
Then I would say you have markets where you have a stable situation in terms of market share Germany and Italy.
They will both be down 0.1 to 21.2% and 22.5% respectively.
Then I would say you find other markets that are continuing to grow on an already high basis.
That would be Belgium growing 0.7 to 25.1%.
And most importantly Netherlands is growing actually again 0.7 to 34.9%.
That's not too bad.
And then you have a loss category of markets very clearly see the effects of a down trading environment and that would be Spain Portugal and Greece.
Spain we are down quarter 1 versus quarter 1 down 0.4.
It would be even down if you compare more recently to Q3 of last year.
Portugal down 4 percentage points to 18.4 temporary again price increases due to delayed implementation of excise tax driven price increases of competitors.
And Greece again down trading environment where the brand is down 2.4% to 19.3%.
So down trading environment stable and growing the number of sale and up trading invaded more the central European part.
I think that's the categories that you find within the EU region.
Our next question comes the line of Rey Wium with Ren Cap [Renaissance Capital].
Just a quick question regarding the production costs.
Regarding the full manufacturing cost increase more recent in inflation.
But if you look at the first quarter numbers your cost of sale actually declined by 3.2%.
I was just curious to know if there was any specific factors in the first quarter that resulted in a lower -- in a reduction in the cost of sales? Well I mean -- overall inflation that is a worldwide average that is something about 2% to 3% so that's the range.
As you know we have productivity programs in place.
In terms of major components of our cost of goods sold that's of course first of all and most importantly leaf.
That's about 25% of our cost of goods sold.
On average is leaf and on a yearly basis last year it was $3.5 billion.
So within leaf now you have leaf price increases.
We all remember the situation in 2008.
That is absorbed.
That's no longer the problem today.
The leaf price increases for this year that we still expect will be about 2/3 of what they have been in 2010 and now they are essentially driven by the currency strength of the underlying Brazilian real in the leaf price which then currently is in dollars of Brazilian leaf that's the most important thing.
But against that so of course also our productivity measures.
So that's what I can say on leaf.
On direct materials which is about 25% in there that is essentially stable.
And then of course you have conversion costs.
Where you have productivity running against percent of the increases that you of course have to give and give to you [indiscernible] so those are essentially the components.
But overall I feel pretty good about it I must say.
Yes but I was just curious about calculations that create -- that your production cost basically in the EU region declined by 6%.
That's quite an incredible performance.
I was just wondering if there was any specific one sort of factor that benefited that? That is probably -- I must say that must be the effect of the Philippines that are included now.
Yes that's it.
Of course if you compare to last year and this year and now you have all the Philippine sector in there which of course on average have a lower cost base then...
For final question comes from the line of Thomas Russo with Gardner Russo Gardner.
You had mentioned that you will have a synergy savings coming from Philippines over the year.
Will those be part of the $250 million? Or is that on top of the $250 million that you were citing originally.
It's first question.
And the second question has to do with any further color on forestalling which you mentioned steps are taking forward but where else are you still seeing that? Okay.
The productivity and the synergies out of the Philippines is of course part of our total number because the Philippines are part of our total business.
The second question forestalling.
I mean we have made quite some progress in a number of countries and forestalling the most effective measure always being at the so-called sell by dates.
Remember 2 years ago it must have been were you had really big problems in Poland that’s solved today.
So it is essentially 1.5 2 months delay only.
So there is simply further room for improvement also in markets where it's already existing.
I was mentioning Russia before well that’s certainly is a country that would be on our priority list.
But you also can always do better in other markets and that is already in place.
Portugal would be an example from a second credit rate.
Thank you Hermann.
You're welcome.
That was our final question.
I'll now turn the floor back over to management for any closing remarks.
Well thank you very much for joining us today.
That concludes our call.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact the Investor Relations team here in Lausanne Switzerland today.
Thank you and have a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Philip Morris International Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Nick Rolli Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Welcome.
Thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we issued a news release containing detailed information on our 2011 second quarter results.
You may access the release on our website at www.pmi.com.
During our call today we will be talking about results for the second quarter 2011 and comparing them with the same period in 2010 unless otherwise stated.
References to PMI volumes are for PMI shipments.
Industry volume and market shares are the latest data available from a number of internal and external sources.
Organic volume refers to volume excluding acquisitions.
Net revenues exclude excise taxes.
Operating companies income or OCI is defined as operating income before general corporate expenses and the amortization of intangibles.
You will find data tables showing how we made adjustments to net revenues and OCI for currency acquisitions asset impairment exit and other costs free cash flow calculations and adjustments to earnings per share or EPS as well as reconciliations to U.S.
GAAP measures at the end of today's webcast slides which are posted on our website.
Today's remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results and I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statements disclosure in today's presentation and news release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
It's now my pleasure to introduce Hermann Waldemer Chief Financial Officer.
Hermann? Welcome ladies and gentlemen.
We reported another very strong performance during the second quarter.
We achieved stable organic cigarette volumes.
Net revenues excluding currency and acquisitions grew by a strong 10.1%.
Adjusted OCI excluding currency and acquisition surged 16.5% and adjusted diluted EPS were 21% above the prior year's level excluding currency.
These excellent results can be attributed in particular to the Asia region with Indonesia Japan Korea and the Philippines all performing very strongly and higher prices in a wide range of markets.
During the second quarter our pricing variance reached $617 million for a total of $1.1 billion during the first half of the year.
In the last 3 months we implemented or announced price increases in markets such as Nigeria Argentina Australia Canada Egypt Germany Italy The Netherlands Russia and Saudi Arabia thus reinforcing our strong pricing momentum.
Furthermore the pricing situation in Spain improved in July.
We also have strong overall business momentum.
Our share in the second quarter for our top 30 OCI markets was up 2.3 points to 38.5%.
Marlboro had stable volume in the quarter on a global PMI basis as higher volume in the Asia and EEMA regions offset the impact of lower industry volume in the EU and Latin America and Canada regions.
The brand share was up for stable in all 4 regions and its global share excluding China and the U.S.A grew by 0.4 points to 9.3%.
During the second quarter L&amp;M our second largest brand increased its volume by 3.1% accelerating its growth in the EU region and part of the EEMA region.
These results were achieved by strong share growth in a wide range of markets including Egypt Germany The Netherlands Poland Slovakia and Turkey.
In light of our excellent results strong pricing and good share in business momentum going into the second half of the year as well as a more favorable currency outlook at prevailing exchange rates we announced today a further $0.15 increase in our reported diluted EPS guidance for 2011.
$0.10 of the increased guidance relate to the business the improvement being largely attributable to Japan.
$0.05 relate to currency which have been noted that exchange rates may still experience some volatility over the balance of the year.
The new guidance range is $4.70 to $4.80.
Compared to our adjusted diluted EPS of $3.87 in 2010 this corresponds to an increase of approximately 21.5% to 24% at prevailing exchange rates and approximately 15% to 17.5% excluding currency.
Our excellent results in the first half and our favorable outlook for the second half of 2011 demonstrate the benefits of our global footprint and highlight our success with attractive acquisitions and organic volume growth over the last 10 years in Asia the half of the world population lives.
Our strong results in the second quarter reflect the strength of our management teams in these markets and especially in Japan where I took the calculated risk to commit around $100 million in airfreight when the extent of the additional demand for our brands was still difficult to judge.
Our efficient yet flexible global manufacturing footprint and effective market response enabled us to fill the void caused by the shortage of JT and more recently BAT products.
In the second quarter net revenues in the Asia region grew by 27.7% excluding currency and acquisitions and adjusted OCI was 48.2% higher on the same basis.
As a result the region is now our largest contributor to these measures accounting for 35% and 36% respectively of PMI's net revenues and adjusted OCI during the first half of this year.
And this contribution is expected to increase further as our business in the region continues to expand.
During the second quarter PMI shipments to Japan reached 19.5 billion units up 1.9 billion or 11% compared to the same period last year.
This increase was achieved despite the unfavorable impact of the large October 2010 tax-driven price increases and the boost to our shipments that occurred in the second quarter of last year ahead of that increase.
Our market share has reached 42% 17.7% points above the prior year level and 16.4 points above our share in the first quarter of 2011.
As we ensured full product availability throughout the period all our brands gained share and in particular Lark and Marlboro.
Determining exactly how the rest of the year will pan out remains very difficult due to the complex interaction of multiple factors.
These include the impact of the tax-driven price increase in October last year the consumer and trade's prior year loading and subsequent deloading patterns the underlying market decline trend the price of elasticity and whether it will diminish over time the disruption of JT supplies and shortages of certain BAT products the precise impact of our efficient response and our level of smoker share retention once the full range of competitive products are available.
The new trend for industry volume and the new base for PMI's future market share growth will not be clear until the fourth quarter of this year at the earliest.
Our business is also doing very well in Indonesia.
Thanks to a strong economy and a favorable comparison with a relatively soft second quarter 2010 industry volume grew an exceptional 13.9% in the second quarter of this year.
For the full year we expect the annual growth rate to be in the range of 4% to 6%.
Our volume in the quarter was up by 20.7% to 22.6 billion units and our market share grew by 1.6 points to 30.2% with all our Kretek brands gaining or maintaining market share and Marlboro increasing its volume and its share within the wide Cigarette segment despite a reduction in its overall market share.
The growing volume along with continual moderate price increases is driving strong profitability growth in Asia's second-largest cigarette market after China.
In Korea we continue to achieve strong volume and share growth behind Marlboro and Parliament.
Our market share grew by 3.3 points to 19.9% in the quarter with a 1 share point contribution from innovative Marlboro Menthol line extensions.
Korea is one of the few key markets worldwide where we have not increased retail prices in the past year in light of the more important need to secure excise tax reform for the long term.
PMI's organic volume in the EEMA region declined by 3.4% in the second quarter due primarily to Ukraine.
For the full year we expect our volume to be stable in the region.
Net revenues were up 3.6% during Q2 excluding currency and acquisitions.
Adjusted OCI was 4.8% higher excluding currency and acquisition driven primarily by increased volumes in Turkey and North Africa and higher prices across many markets in particular Russia.
This was partly offset by lower volumes in Eastern Europe and additional investments in business building initiatives in Russia.
These investments will further boost the momentum of Parliament Chesterfield and Bond Street in Russia while addressing the issues surrounding Marlboro.
These efforts will however take some time to have a measurable impact on our market share which declined by 0.1 point to 25.4% in the second quarter through the end of May due mainly to a temporary price disadvantage to competitive products.
At the beginning of this month we announced to the trade a further price increase of RUB 3 on Marlboro and RUB 2 on average across the rest of our portfolio.
Our lowest price in the market will now be RUB 21 a pack for Optima up 27% from a year ago.
These price increases along with lower disposable incomes as wage increases have failed to keep pace with inflation are limiting the extent of consumer uptrading.
Industry volume meanwhile is expected to decline at an annualized rate of some 2% to 3% this year in line with 2010.
Earlier this month the Russian government approved its tax policy guidelines or TPG for the period 2012 through 2014 including a detailed 3-year excise tax development plan for tobacco products.
The TPG foresees that excise taxes will be indexed periodically in line with inflation and economy conditions in Russia.
In addition to the excise tax increases already foreseen for January 2012 in the current law the TPG calls for an additional increase in July 2012 of 8.3% in the specific element to RUB 390 per thousand and 10.9% in the minimum excise tax to RUB 510 per thousand.
While the proposed increases are significant we believe they should be manageable.
It should however be highlighted that this is the first step in the process and that the plan needs to be submitted to the Duma and the Federation council for approval.
The final adoption of the law is not expected to take place until November this year.
In Ukraine the estimated 15% decline in industry volume in the second quarter masks an improving underlying trend as the data is distorted by the heavy trade loading that took place in the same period last year ahead of tax-driven price increases.
We expect the market to stabilize during the second half of the year.
The Ukrainian market is tending to polarize with the premium and the super-low price segments both expanding while several small manufacturers and illicit trade continue to grow volume.
PMI's market share was down 3.5 points in the quarter to 32.1% as we are under-represented in the super-low price segment.
We have reduced the price gap between Bond Street and the bottom of the market to address this issue.
Meanwhile both Parliament and Marlboro are performing well and increased their market share during the quarter.
Overall the Turkish market has now stabilized.
Our volume grew by 12.1% in the second quarter though it remains below the levels prior to the tax increase of January 2010.
Our market share reached 44.6% in the quarter through the end of May up 3.8 points.
This impressive share improvement covers all 3 price segments and is led by Premium Parliament mid-priced Muratti and low-priced L&amp;M.
Despite the issues that continue to impact Spain and to a lesser extent Greece the results in the EU region in the second quarter were more positive from a number of standpoints.
Industry volume declined by a modest 1.7% and was actually up in markets such as the Czech Republic France and Germany.
PMI volume was 3.1% lower due to an 8.4% decline in Greece a 17.6% reduction in Spain and a decrease of 9.7% in Poland where we should share [ph] at the lowest and least profitable end of the market.
Our key brands Marlboro and L&amp;M performed well.
Marlboro's regional share was stable at 18.1% and L&amp;M's share grew at the further 0.3 point to 6.6%.
Net revenues and adjusted OCI were up 0.7% and 2.3% respectively excluding currency and acquisitions.
While we are not entirely satisfied with the situation there are some clear signs for renewed optimism concerning the future contribution of the EU region to PMI's profitability growth going forward.
Germany has again become one of the strongest tobacco markets in the EU.
During the first half of the year industry volume was up 1.9% for cigarettes and 4.8% for fine cut.
PMI increased its market share by 0.3 and 0.4 points to 35.9% and 14.8% respectively during this period.
L&amp;M continues to perform very strongly gaining a further 1 share point in the second quarter to reach a cigarette share of 10.4%.
Unit margin-enhancing price increases have been implemented.
Our remaining concern is the growth of discounted larger pack sizes while the market share of big packs defined as 22 to 25 cigarettes per pack appears to have stabilized the share of maxi packs that is packs with over 26 cigarettes continues to increase and may receive a boost from the recent introduction of packs of 40 cigarettes.
The Spanish economy continues to suffer from high unemployment levels with few signs of improvement.
Consequently cigarette industry volumes has been contracting at double digit rates and consumers have been downtrading to cheaper brands and illicit trade products.
This is a special context in which price competition was exacerbated in May and June this year.
However recent developments indicate the situation has improved.
Industry volume increased 1.8% in France and was stable in Italy during the second quarter.
Our cigarette market share was up slightly in France to 40.9% as the continued growth of the Philip Morris brand also positioned in the Premium segment more than offset the slight decline of Marlboro share.
At the same time following the entry of Marlboro into the category we also became the market leader in fine cut with a quarterly share of 25% up 5.6 points.
Our market share in Italy was down 0.7 points to 53.4% with Marlboro down 0.3 points.
This was attributable to the relative decline of the Premium segment where PMI has a 95% share.
Our profitability however continue to improve in both markets with high single-digit increases in the quarter.
Furthermore we recently announced a EUR 0.10 price increase across our portfolio in Italy.
After increasing the specific to total [ph] component in its excise tax last December earlier this month the Greek government increased the minimum excise tax from 75% to 100% of the excise tax levied on the weighted average price.
This implies a pass-on of nearly EUR 0.50 per 20 cigarettes at the very bottom end of the market where cigarettes retail at EUR 2.40.
PMI has announced an increase in the price of its main low-priced brand L&amp;M 25s from EUR 3.20 to EUR 3.70 per pack.
The reduction in price gaps should help the continued recovery of Marlboro's market share in Greece.
Our volume in the Latin America and Canada region was 4.8% lower in the quarter driven by a double-digit market contraction in Mexico following the large tax-driven price increases at the end of last year and by the timing of shipments in Brazil.
Despite the challenging pricing environment our market share in Mexico reached 72.2% with Marlboro surging 3.8 points to reach a 52% share.
Our business in Argentina performed very well with volume growth of over 8% and gains from Marlboro which added 0.6 point to reach a 24% market share.
Net revenues for the region increased by 5.8% in the quarter excluding currency and acquisitions and adjusted OCI was 8.8% higher on the same basis.
On the regulatory front the main focus remains on plain packaging.
Although certain other governments have expressed their opposition to such a measure the Australian government continues to appear intent on mandating the implementation of plain packaging in 2010 and has submitted a proposed bill to Parliament.
Plain packaging will result in the illegal confiscation of our very valuable trademarks and branded assets in violation of international trade laws and treaties.
We have therefore served notice of our intention to file an arbitration claim against the Australian government under the Hong Kong-Australia Bilateral Investment Treaty.
We are now in a mandatory 3-month period set aside for negotiation under this procedure.
Consequently we have written to the government seeking a meeting.
Strong pricing and very moderate increases in tobacco and non-tobacco material costs as well as our continued focus on productivity improvements resulted in a 2.5 point increase in PMI's adjusted OCI margins excluding currency and acquisitions during the second quarter.
Our free cash flow increased by $638 million or 19.4% in the quarter to $3.9 billion.
Excluding currency the increase was $402 million or 12.2%.
The increase was driven mainly by our excellent business results.
During the first half of the year our free cash flow was up more than $1 billion to nearly $6.2 billion.
During the second quarter we spent $1.5 billion to repurchase 22.7 million shares at an average price of $68.32.
Since the March 2008 spin we have now repurchased 17.9% of the shares outstanding at that time.
In conclusion PMI had an excellent quarter.
Our adjusted diluted EPS growth reached 21% excluding currency.
Our outlook is promising with strong market share and business momentum.
Pricing remains a very strong driver of profitability with Spain being a special case.
We are not under any significant input cost pressures and expect to exceed our annual productivity savings target of $250 million this year.
We have increased our 2011 EPS guidance by a further $0.15 bringing it to a range of $4.70 to $4.80.
Compared to an adjusted diluted EPS of $3.87 in 2010 this corresponds to an increase of approximately 21.5% to 24% at prevailing exchange rates and approximately 15% to 17.5% excluding currency.
And finally and most importantly our cash flow continues to grow and be our focus on generously rewarding our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Thank you.
I will now be happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Chris Growe of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I want to ask you 2 questions.
One would be as we're looking at and doing some modeling around the price realization for the year you talked about being able to sort of beat the level of pricing last year and just hearing some of your comments and some of the recent price increases from Russia to Italy as well as the pricing that came through this quarter my estimate suggests you're going to pretty meaningfully outpace that unless I'm not factoring maybe some second half factors.
Is there anything that we should keep in mind there in relation to the dollar amount of pricing coming through this year? Well I would say -- as you say I mean if you look at the numbers year-to-date June $1.1 billion for the half year versus actually $1.7 billion for the full year of 2010 last year.
I think these numbers speak for themselves.
You were quoting a number of markets where we recently have implemented or announced price increases.
That's correct.
At this point of the year I think it would be inappropriate to go into further details because any comment I would make could be interpreted or linked to a specific market.
So bear with me I think it's better if I stop it there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Sure understood.
And then my follow-up question is to be in relation to Japan.
And I'm just trying to get a sense especially in this quarter.
There's a lot of moving pieces I realize particularly the year ago increase in inventory.
But I'm just trying to understand if you get a sense of where you think you stand today in your inventory position in Japan.
Is there any rebuilding that needs to occur given the lag you had in volumes versus your in-market consumption this quarter? Well I think our inventory levels are okay in the Japanese market.
I mean that was really the tremendous effort that we have made now during this period.
I mean congratulations really to our team in Japan there.
They have done a terrific job in difficult times for the country and for our employees there.
Also congratulations to our factories.
I mean 10 factories actually have been involved in the production ramp up.
Our factory workers production workers actually have put in 200 000 of hours of overtime during the period and we actually chartered the equivalent of 150 Boeing 747 cargo planes to bring 10 billion cigarettes into the market.
So I think we are good from that side.
I mean if you go back to really what happened in the first half of the year as you said yourself the full year with all the moving targets that remains to be seen.
But if you look at the first half of the year then well you look at the total market of 90 billion cigarettes we had a share of about 25% January February before the events.
We have a year-to-date share of 34% that's 9 percentage point difference or 90 billion.
So I talk about 8 billion cigarettes here.
You make your own estimate of the solid margins that we have in Japan.
There was the airfreight.
There were other costs.
You deduct our corporation income tax rate and you'd probably come into the range of a net income impact of $200 million or something like anything in the neighborhood of $0.10 to $0.12 EPS.
Your next question comes from David Adelman of Morgan Stanley.
Let me ask you a few other things about Japan Hermann.
Can you walk through with us how your in-market share evolved during the second quarter? Presumably it came down in general correct? That's correct.
I mean we would have started really April with a share of about 55% May 40% June 35% and the very latest I've seen in daily offtake share now which is not the same basis but just if you go to a couple of the important c-store chains then I still see shares slightly above 30% as we speak now.
But these are not yet what I would call retention shares that we have to wait a little later into the year.
Okay.
And then beyond having your product available in market are there any other tactics that you've been employing to try to enhance your prospect of ultimately retaining consumers that are using and trying your products during this period? Well our teams there have really given full support on the distribution side.
I mean our sales force they have been in the market day and night so both the sales the promotion the logistics departments they have been working very very hard.
This I don't think is the moment where you need to bother the consumer with new variants.
This is the moment that you have to support your broad array of very competitive variants and we have seen really as I said in the remarks real strong growth in all brands but in particular strong growth in Lark a more traditional brand if you like but also in Marlboro which is a very aspirational brand in the Japanese markets.
And on that particular dynamic are you surprised or are the people in the market surprised that the gains seem to be skewing to Lark? And do you think longer term Hermann does that have any implications on the limitations of Marlboro's longer-term share prospects for growth? Quite frankly if I look at what happened what we have seen during the process it gives me confidence in the growth prospects of Marlboro in that market.
Okay.
And then on Korea am I correct Hermann that some of your competitors in that market have raised prices 4 5 6 weeks ago and to this point you have not? That's correct.
I mean when it comes to pricing as you know of course I will not make comments on the future but I mean let's -- I'll give you some facts here.
In that market you are correct that there were price increases of BAT and JT in April and May.
We have also seen the biggest competitor KT&amp;G putting posters into the point of sales informing their consumers that they will not raise prices.
A third point would be that the government -- the Korean government is very concerned about inflation trends and as I was saying before PMI seeks excise tax reform a multi-year plan would be much more important.
So things are a bit more complicated just to look at first glance.
I would say sometimes in life it's not enough to do the right thing.
You also have to do it at the right time.
Okay and then Hermann one last thing.
The arbitration process that you alluded to in Australia with respect to plain packaging I just want to confirm the fact that that action on your behalf does not preclude any other subsequent different type of legal action that you would otherwise have the opportunity to take.
Is that correct? It's not an either-or situation.
You can ultimately if necessary pursue multiple different avenues of redress.
That is correct.
Your next question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Just 2 quick follow-ups on Japan and then a question on Russia.
So when you think about your guidance increase for the year about $0.10 coming from Japan that's basically all of the realization of what you've gotten so far and doesn't assume any of the market share retention going forward so to the extent that you do get some market share retention is that an upside in terms of your guidance? Well the $0.10 to $0.12 that I have just explained I mean that is the first half of the year that is the actuals.
And then the way you played out in the quarter so it looks like you actually capture more than sort of your fair share of the non-Japan Tobacco volume which I guess you've talked about the BAT product shortage as well.
But just in terms of how much you've captured in the second quarter do you think that was a function of BAT not having as many products in the marketplace or just more brand equity on your brands that allowed you to take more share? I would call it the optimal way of seizing a business opportunity which our folks have done and have implemented.
I think that's really what it is.
But to come back to the beginning of your question when you look at the overall EPS guidance then you have to remember that of course at the very beginning of the year in February we had a certain assumption in there for our business already in Japan you remember there was a price increase and everything.
And then when it came to the first quarter we said that about half a year about $0.05 of the increase business guidance the increase now was due to Japan and now in this quarter's call the majority of the new $0.10 business-driven increase is due to Japan.
But not only due to Japan I would also want to highlight really the terrific performance we have had in Indonesia and also by the way to the fact that if you exclude Spain for a moment which is a special case by itself that the total market size in the EU region is stable.
And just in terms of your guidance what are you factoring in in terms of Spain situation with respect to your guidance at this point? Of the Spain situation is of course in.
It is again a moving target so as I said the situation has improved.
However that being said of course OCI will still -- there will still be a substantial decline if you compare it to last year.
That is factored in.
Okay.
And then can you talk about Russia post the tax increase next year? You talked about it's a significant increase but you see that as manageable.
Can you just elaborate on how you think that market will play out in 2012? Well I mean let me start answering your question by looking at the economy because there is one point in there which I think deserves being mentioned particularly.
Whilst real disposable income of the people in Russia still last year was up net of inflation about 4% is the estimate.
Now in the first half of this year it's actually down.
Inflation is ranging between 9% and 10%.
Disposable income therefore probably is down about 2%.
At the same time there were a number of price increases in the market.
So whilst we have not seen really uptrading to mid and premium segment to the extent people have all expected it say 8 9 months ago at the end of the day from a consumer perspective they have uptraded.
Because as I was saying in the remarks well our lowest price brand is now 21 rubles so prices have gone up quite a bit.
In that context we have seen last year an estimate there is no absolute number but a good estimate that the market was down about 2.5%.
I expect something of the same nature this year and probably also going into next year but we will probably all have a better feel for that once you have seen the second half of this year.
Your next question comes from Roger Fujimori with Crédit Suisse.
My first question is on Indonesia.
I was just wondering if you could talk about the industry volume outlook for the full year after the exception of 14%-or-so market growth in the Q2 which is well above the historical run rate was it one 4 [ph] is going to persist in the second half.
Okay.
I mean in Indonesia we of course see the combination of a thriving economy also a favorable demographics.
The year-to-date number for the market is actually -- it's up 8.5%.
The second quarter was particularly strong because it's kind of easy comps to the second quarter of 2010.
The full year estimates we have right now would be 4% to 6% for the full year of 2011.
My second question is on the EEMA region.
In your comments you indicated a stable volume outlook in the region for the full year after a 3% decline in Q2 a 1% decline in Q1.
Obviously there was a distortion in Ukraine in the comparison base but also it's interesting I guess you can give a little bit more color on the drivers behind the improvement in the second half.
Okay.
I mean it's really the major impact of the Ukraine market there.
That market was down quite a bit then.
You really had difficult comps to the second quarter also of last year where the trade ordered way more at the time because it was -- this was before the subsequent price increase retail price increases in the market.
So this is why I said that I expect already for the Ukraine kind of a stabilizing or a stable market almost in the second half that helps overall.
And the other part would be that we are despite the suspension of our business in Libya we are also seeing volume growth in North Africa.
And thirdly I think we really have tremendous share performance in the Turkish market.
Your next question comes from Vivien Azer of Citigroup.
Quick question on pricing just to follow up.
Given the strength of your pricing realization seemingly including and excluding Japan just relative to your going in estimates for the full year were there any markets in particular where you were presently surprised by your ability to pass on price or to the price elasticity that you were seeing in certain markets? Well we have never any doubt that our pricing plans and expectations that we have put into our guidance from the very beginning were realistic expectations.
Then when you go into the year well it always depends on the market-per-market situation.
This is government and budgetary expectations.
This is the competitive situation as we judge it.
And so we take our decisions on our market-by-market basis and as the actual results have shown we have been very successful in there.
Just to be sure.
In terms of Spain it seems as if the pricing activity that you're seeing from your competitors has subsided somewhat but we did see some more price cuts I think from one of your competitors on Monday.
Have you guys announced any response to that? No we have not.
Is it your expectation that the pricing movements will continue to subside in that market? I will not comment on future pricing.
I'm sorry.
Your next question comes from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> I just had a question about Marlboro and if you could provide us an update on any new initiatives on this brand of the franchise that you might have implemented or will be implementing in the market regarding any new line extensions or packaging styles? Well there are many many activities within the new Marlboro architecture whilst you will have seen one or the other variant there already in a market that doesn't mean that the potential for rollout of innovation on Marlboro is already exhausted.
To the contrary there are many more possibilities to continue to successfull rollout of the Marlboro architecture and positive trends in many many markets are a testament to this.
A terrific success on several of the menthol variants in particular in Asia are probably a highlight in that context.
LLC</strong> And if you compare sort of what's in the market or what you put into the market during the first half of this year versus what you're expecting to put into the marketplace will you have increased activity here in the second half? No that's a permanent activity throughout the year.
We don't time that except that you probably don't do a new launch when everybody in the market is in the holiday period that you will not do.
But otherwise it's spread over the year.
LLC</strong> Okay and then with regards to the EU you mentioned you're seeing some signs of stabilization as it relates to the down trading pressure that's occurring throughout the key markets.
Could you talk a little bit more in depth on your strategy to mitigate this down trading in some of these key European markets? Is it for instance strictly a function of narrowing the price gap? Are there other initiatives that you have implemented to possibly help prevent some of this from occurring? Well preventing from occurring that is essentially related to tax structure that is then very often the question of how much -- how high this specific element is vis-a-vis the lower element and the minimum excise tax.
The best news of the quarter there I believe came out of Greece.
There we had a very substantial increase of the minimum excise tax.
So I said before $0.50 a rollover need essentially at the very bottom of the market so it's always that.
On the other hand in many other European markets where the price gaps are not that large there are always exceptions but in general not that large so it's also about being competitive.
At the lower end that is pretty much the success of the brand L&amp;M in the European union region which by the way is the #2 brand in the region and you know who was the #1 brand.
Your next question comes from Christine Farkas of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Two question.
Firstly on Libya and forgive me if you've disclosed this.
Did you tell us how much the -- what was the impact from the disruption there on sticks? Well Libya is simply the point that we of course suspended our business immediately when the suspensions came into place.
So year-to-date compared to last year that is almost 1 billion cigarettes.
Nevertheless if you take a total of North Africa together we are growing volume in the area but of course we have no volumes in Libya.
Just on Japan you were very clear about the profit impact from the Japan factors in the quarter and I believe you've indicated that there was a bit of a boost in the pricing variants.
Can you tell us how much -- of your $617 million came from that benefit of the country mix in the quarter would it be in that number? It will of course be part of that number but I will not single out the number for Japan only.
That I cannot do.
Your next question comes from Erik Bloomquist of Berenberg Bank.
I was wondering if you could come back to the European Union first where it looks like the volume dynamic is very encouraging.
Could you talk -- give us more color about what's happening in places like France and Italy and why we're seeing actually volume growth? Okay I mean I would say let's go to 3 of the really big and important markets in the EU region being Germany France and Italy.
And let's use year-to-date numbers I mean Germany is up 2% France is up 1% and Italy is stable or a little bit up 0.2% so that is of course a positive sign.
We have decent tax structures in place.
Improvement needs maybe in some but overall it leaves the effect of minimum excise tax systems are in place.
We have had no disruptive excise tax increases.
We have had price increases in all of those markets and nevertheless we see a much improved trend to what we have seen before.
So those are 3 examples.
That's why really the total EU number is somewhat distorted really by the Spanish effect.
And so in terms of consumer behavior it's simply that people if let alone are happy to continue consumer -- I mean is that something then that we I think can rely on going forward in your view? I can't predict the future but it's good trends.
It looks good because in Germany I gave you the number on manufactured cigarettes.
At the same time all year round make your own is also up so overall consumption is up.
It's not just not a move between the categories.
It's more than that.
Well could you give us a bit more color on Poland? I mean it looks varied.
Are we seeing something happen there like in Ukraine where the market is polarizing with an increase in the super-low? And what does that imply for an eventual increase in Polish profitability? Well I would not compare it to the polarization situation.
In the Ukraine it's different.
On one hand we see clear uptrading trends in the Polish market where our premium brands Marlboro but also L&amp;M really benefit from.
At the same time you have very intense price promotions at the very bottom of the market and that's probably what's driving the growth there.
And then in terms of Russia have you seen competitors follow your price increases? We have had recent reports from sales force which has seen packs of new prices from BAT in retail outlets with increases that seem to be comparable to the ones we have implemented.
But not Japan's Tobacco International? Yes also.
And then finally on Turkey that also appears to be a market that has renewed momentum.
How do you see the market volumes evolving over the next rest of the year and then into 2012? I mean the Turkish market really has taken a severe hit at the time of the excise and price increases that the market has seen.
Turkey typically is a market that comes out of crisis quicker than others.
That's actually I would say is valid for the entire economy and not only for the cigarette business.
That's what we see again.
It's improving there.
Now what's still needed is of course -- some work on the excise tax structure in there and the ad valorem element is what I would call overproportional.
But overall we look into a more positive situation in Turkey definitely than what we have seen the year before.
And so the impact of the public place smoking ban appears to be if it ever had an impact that's also waiting? Is that fair? Well that is included in the total numbers of course so this is also at max a onetime short-term impact but then you return to the overall underlying trends of the market.
And next question comes from Ann Gurkin of Davenport.
LLC</strong> I would be interested in your comments on projected overall volume growth rate for the emerging markets over the next 3 to 5 years.
Is there any change there to your thought process? Well really a percentage number I don't think I can give that.
But let me try to answer your question as good as possible at this point in time.
I mean the biggest market in there clearly is Indonesia.
And that today is already the second biggest market in Asia after China.
The 2 other markets in the world that would be bigger than Indonesia would be Russia and the U.S.
and then it would be #4 in the world.
So it's an important market.
The economy is doing well.
Demographics are favorable.
I think we have a good chance to believe that this market is going to continue to grow.
The same I think would apply to the Philippine market.
I would say really same conclusions that to our same underlying reasons for growth that I have just quoted in Indonesia when it comes to mature markets when it comes to Japan well there you need to give me more time to answer that question before the disruption that we have gone through right now.
LLC</strong> And then if I could just ask one more about the distribution you all have with China any updates there in terms of volume or change in arrangements? No.
No change in the underlying arrangements.
There's no need for a change in the underlying arrangements.
We are very happy with it.
It is as you know Marlboro production under license in 2 of the CNTC factories in China albeit if today very limited volumes and it is on the international side our international joint venture.
So cooperation is going well.
I believe both partners are happy with the development but nothing really new new that I would have to report.
[Operator Instructions] And next question comes from Karen Lamark of Federated Investors.
I've got a couple of questions.
Going back to Japan I want to make sure I understand your expectations around competitive restocking.
Is it in Q3 you would expect both JTI and BAT to be fully restocked in terms of breadth and depths or not till Q4? The full restocking and the availability of all products i.e.
all the competitive products as well is kind of as of now.
And then separately in light of competitive payout ratios and your strong cash flow I just wondered under what conditions you might consider increasing your payout ratio? And if you have any kind of time frame under which you might consider that.
I think 65% payout ratio is a very good ratio and quite frankly I don't see a reason why that would need to change.
In the international context that's a very competitive payout ratio.
Our final question comes from Graham Tanaka of Tanaka Capital Management.
I just wanted to ask about the price gap in general and your comfort level where you are.
I know there are so many markets and so many different dynamics.
But in general how much of a cushion or comfort level do you have in the price gap at the low end especially? Well we want to get the price gaps right.
We don't want cushions in there we just want to get them right.
In many places around the world I think they are right.
In some cases they need correction.
The best way to correct is typically via excise tax structure i.e.
in particular via the tool of minimum tax because it's not only us who don't like down trading it's also the governments that don't like down trading be it the finance minister or be it the health minister as well.
So of what proportion of the markets do you think made you less comfortable with the price gaps? The vast majority of our markets.
We have addressed that problem long before and we are in pretty good shape.
Otherwise we wouldn't be able to generate the pricing variances that we are generating.
This concludes the Q&amp;A portion of our call.
I will turn the floor back to Nick Rolli for closing remarks.
Well thank you very much for joining us today on this call.
If you have any follow-up questions you can contact the Investor Relations team here at Lausanne.
Thank you and have a great day.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Philip Morris International Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Nick Rolli Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Welcome.
Thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we issued a news release containing detailed information on our 2011 third quarter results.
You may access the release on our website at www.pmi.com.
During our call today we will be talking about results for the third quarter 2011 and comparing them with the same period in 2010 unless otherwise stated.
References to PMI volumes are for PMI shipments.
Industry volume and market shares are the latest data available from a number of internal and external sources.
Organic volume refers to volume excluding acquisitions.
Net revenues exclude excise taxes.
Operating companies income or OCI is defined as operating income before general corporate expenses and the amortization of intangibles.
You'll find data tables showing how we made adjustments to net revenues and OCI for currency acquisitions asset impairment exit and other costs free cash flow calculations and adjustments to earnings per share or EPS as well as reconciliations to U.S.
GAAP measures at the end of today's webcast slides which are posted on our website.
Today's remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results and I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statements disclosure in today's presentation and news release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
It's now my pleasure to introduce Hermann Waldemer our Chief Financial Officer.
Hermann? Welcome ladies and gentlemen.
I'm extremely pleased to report that we achieved outstanding financial results in the third quarter.
Net revenues excluding currency and acquisitions increased by 15.7% and adjusted OCI excluding currency and acquisitions was 23.7% higher.
Finally adjusted diluted EPS reached $1.37 per share and grew by a remarkable 33% excluding currency.
While these results were boosted by relatively easy year-on-year comparisons in the third quarter we comfortably surpassed all our mid- to long-term currency neutral targets even excluding the whole of our business in Japan.
And year-to-date we are well within these targets.
Our business outlook has further improved since July fully compensating recent unfavorable currency movements.
This has enabled us to narrow our 2011 reported diluted EPS guidance to the upper half of our previous range namely to $4.75 to $4.80.
Compared to our adjusted diluted EPS of $3.87 in 2010 this translates into an improved growth rate excluding currency of approximately 17.5% to 19% well above our mid- to long-term currency neutral growth target and approximately 22.5% to 24% at prevailing exchange rates.
Our third quarter volume was exceptionally strong.
We achieved an organic cigarette volume growth of 4.4% led by the Asia region with an increase of 12.6% and EEMA with 4.8%.
On a year-to-date September basis we have achieved organic volume growth of 0.5%.
While there has been a lot of focus on Japan volume I would like to emphasize that we achieved organic volume growth of 2.3% excluding Japan in the third quarter.
Furthermore on a year-to-date basis the combined increase in our volume in Indonesia and Korea was nearly double that of Japan.
Our entire brand portfolio has performed very well.
Every single one of our top 10 brands achieved volume growth both in the third quarter and year to date be they international brands such as Marlboro L&amp;M and Parliament or leading local brands such as Fortune in the Philippines and Sampoerna A in Indonesia.
I would like to highlight the remarkable performance of Parliament whose volume was up 16.2% in the quarter and 9.9% year-to-date.
We are particularly pleased by the improved performance of Marlboro which is gaining share on a global basis excluding China and the U.S.
In the quarter Marlboro volumes increased at double-digit rates in both the Asia and EEMA regions.
On a year-to-date basis Marlboro has gained 0.3 and 0.5 share points respectively in these regions.
Marlboro's slightly share decline in the EU region reflects the pressure on the premium segments from continued economic difficulties in parts of Southern Europe as well as a moderate share loss in Germany.
However the brand gained share or was notably stable in Belgium Czech Republic France Hungary the Netherlands and Poland.
The share decline in the Latin America and Canada region marks the superb momentum of Marlboro across the region and is the result of the over-indexation of Marlboro in Mexico where industry volume has declined at a double-digit rate since the large tax-driven price increases in December last year.
This very good performance is evidenced by significant share gains in the 4 key Latin American markets: Argentina Brazil Colombia and Mexico.
Our excellent business momentum is reflected in our overall strong share performance.
Year-to-date our market share in our top 30 OCI markets was up 1.4 share points to 36.3%.
In the quarter we achieved a higher share in a clear majority of these 30 markets for an overall gain of 1.2 share points.
On a regional basis our results in Asia the growth engine of our company were outstanding with net revenues and adjusted OCI both excluding currency and acquisitions up 39.1% and 75.1% respectively.
This was driven in particular by Indonesia Japan Korea and the Philippines.
We also enjoyed strong performances in the other 3 regions.
In EEMA net revenues grew 11.2% and adjusted OCI 13.8% both excluding currency and acquisitions.
In Latin America and Canada they were up 8.3% and 9% respectively.
Our results in the EU improved with net revenues and adjusted OCI excluding currency and acquisitions up 2.2% and 3.1% respectively.
During the third quarter PMI shipments to Japan reached 16 billion units up 5.1 billion or 47.1% compared to the same period last year.
The increase reflects the higher market share that we have achieved this year as well as easy comparisons due to the payback in 2010 of our distributor inventory buildup in the second quarter of last year in anticipation of increased trade and consumer purchases ahead of the October tax-driven price increase.
Our third quarter market share of 27.9% was distorted by competitive trade reloading following shortages of their products through August.
We do not expect shipments to the trade to mirror consumer demand until at least the fourth quarter and possibly only in the first quarter next year.
We remain nevertheless optimistic that we should be able to retain considerable additional market share.
Our confidence is based on our ability to maintain a consumer offtake share in convenience stores such as Lawson at a level slightly above 30% in September and early October after all competitive products were available to consumers again.
This compared to a pre-earthquake share in these outlets of around 26%.
The other important element that we expect to be able to confirm in the fourth quarter is the evolution in the total market.
We now forecast that industry volume will decrease this year by no more than 15% a much lower rate of decline than the 20% forecast at the beginning of this year.
Our business is also doing extremely well in Indonesia.
Industry volume growth in the quarter was well over 10% driven by increasing consumer purchasing power limited inflation higher consumer confidence and positive demographic trends.
Our volume rose 22.5% and our market share reached a record level of 31.2% a gain of 2 share points.
This very strong performance was led by Sampoerna A which increased its market share by 0.9 points to 12.1%.
Pricing remains robust and we expect the government to continue to implement plans to simplify the excise tax structure.
All these trends are very encouraging as Indonesia is a very profitable market with significant potential for further growth.
Our market share in Russia was up slightly in the quarter through August to 25.8% behind Parliament in premium Chesterfield in the mid-price and Bond Street in the low-priced segment.
Our volume in the third quarter was down 3.5% due to distributor inventory adjustments as well as the impact on the total market of recent price increases.
During the fourth quarter of this year we expect the Russian Parliament to approve the new roadmap for excise taxes on tobacco products.
This calls for increases that are higher than originally planned yet still expected to be manageable with 2 steps in 2012.
PMI volume in Turkey rose 21.6% in the third quarter and our market share reached 45.7% a gain of 3.9 points led by Parliament in premium Muratti in mid-price and L&amp;M in the low-price segment.
While the market has stabilized so far this year we expect the recently announced excessive increase in the ad valorem excise tax rate along with an ineffective minimum excise tax to cause considerable disruption.
We will continue therefore to vigorously put forward our rational arguments for a more balanced excise tax structure in Turkey.
Germany has benefited from more robust market volume trends this year.
Total market volume in Germany was actually up 0.3% in the quarter for cigarettes and 3.8% for fine cut continuing the positive trend of the first half of this year.
Our cigarette volume grew by 1.2% in the third quarter and PMI gained 0.3 share points to reach 35.2% thanks to the continued strong growth of L&amp;M which remained the fastest growing brand in the market and was able to more than offset the decline of Marlboro.
PMI also gained share in the fine cut segment.
Of even greater importance our profitability has been enhanced by the price increase that we implemented in the second quarter of this year following the May excise tax increase.
The next tax step will take place in January 2012.
We have tremendous business momentum in France where the overall market has remained stable so far this year.
In the third quarter we further increased our market share by 0.4 points to 40.4% driven by the strong performance of our premium brands: Marlboro and Philip Morris.
Furthermore we achieved market leadership in the fine cut market with a share of 25.2% thanks to the successful launch into this segment in February this year of Marlboro.
The brand reached a 6.8% segment share in the third quarter.
Finally we have just announced the price increase of EUR 0.30 per pack across our whole cigarette portfolio.
This should enhance our profitability going forward.
Spain remains a troubled economy with very high unemployment and a difficult tobacco market.
Industry cigarette volume is forecast to decline at least 15% in 2011.
The pricing situation was resolved in September when we increased our retail prices by EUR 0.25 bringing Marlboro to its previous level of EUR 4.25 per pack and L&amp;M to EUR 3.75.
This should enable our profitability to recover.
With the temporary exception of Spain the pricing environment continues to be very favorable.
This is highlighted by the $564 million in pricing variance that we achieved in the third quarter this year and the $1.6 billion year-to-date.
During 2011 we have implemented or announced price increase in the majority of our key markets including: Australia Indonesia and the Philippines in Asia; Algeria Russia Saudi Arabia and Ukraine in EEMA; France Germany Italy Poland and Spain in the EU; and finally Argentina Brazil and Canada in the Latin America and Canada region.
Our outlook on costs remains very favorable.
Current tobacco leaf crop prices are stable to slightly declining on a worldwide average basis.
Tobacco and direct material cost increases are very moderate and broadly in line with inflation and are being offset by our continued productivity efforts.
We expect to comfortably exceed our $250 million pretax target for cost savings this year.
The combination of strong pricing and limited cost increases has enabled us to continue to grow our superior adjusted OCI margins.
On a PMI-wide basis our adjusted OCI margin excluding currency and acquisitions reached 47.3% in the third quarter a gain of 3.1 points.
One of the reasons for the absence of downward pressure on prices in our industry is the important role of excise taxes and the desire of governments to continue to grow revenues.
This can be achieved through a judicious combination of reasonable excise tax increases structural enhancements and higher prices.
There have been improvements in excise tax structures in several markets this year and some countries have adopted multi-year tax plans including Germany and Indonesia.
While government deficit financing needs point to renewed pressure on excise taxation as a source of additional revenues most governments appear to have understood that large disruptive excise tax increases do not improve revenue-generating capabilities over the mid to long term.
We do however expect some countries to seek to generate higher revenues by increasing VAT which will push prices higher though this should be manageable.
Every year there are nevertheless still a few governments that continue from time to time to introduce very large and disruptive excise tax increases.
As I mentioned this happened last week in Turkey and additional surprises remain possible as it is still early in the budget process in many countries.
When it comes to plain packaging we believe that there is no sound evidence that such a regulation would reduce consumption smoking incidence or youth smoking or provide any other public health benefit.
Indeed plain packaging would undermine public health objectives by lowering prices and increasing illicit trade.
In addition it would violate intellectual property protections and breach international trade obligations.
We therefore do not believe that plain packaging regulations should be widely adopted by other governments outside Australia.
Though the proposed bill has not yet passed the Senate the Australian government seems intent on ignoring these adverse consequences and on introducing such a regulation.
We are therefore vigorously pursuing several legal avenues to challenge this unreasonable proposal and protect our valuable brands.
During the third quarter our free cash flow increased by $577 million or 25.6% to $2.8 billion.
Excluding currency the increase was $363 million or 16.1%.
The increase was driven mainly by our excellent business results.
On a year-to-date basis our free cash flow was up more than $1.6 billion to $9 billion.
Our confidence in the underlying strength of our business and our ability to continue to generate a growing cash flow is reflected in the 20.3% increase in our dividend that we announced last month.
As of the close on Tuesday our dividend yield stood at the very attractive level of 4.6%.
Since the spin in March 2008 we have increased the dividend by 67% an achievement that few companies have matched over a period that included a major financial crisis significant currency fluctuations and an acute recession.
During the third quarter we spent $1.4 billion to repurchase a further 21.2 million shares.
Since the March 2008 spinoff we have now used over $20 billion to repurchase nearly 400 million shares at an average price of $50.81.
Over the same period we have paid out over $14 billion in dividend.
So in total we have returned nearly $35 billion to our shareholders.
In conclusion PMI had an outstanding third quarter.
Organic volume grew by a remarkable 4.4% with half this growth outside Japan.
This was driven by the very strong performance of all our main brands led by Marlboro and Parliament.
Our market share momentum remains very strong.
Net revenues and adjusted OCI excluding currency and acquisitions were up 15.7% and 23.7% respectively.
Adjusted diluted EPS excluding currency increased by 33%.
Pricing environment remains very favorable and the vast majority of governments continue to act rationally on excise taxation.
Our business outlook has improved further since July enabling us to narrow our reported diluted 2011 EPS guidance to the upper half of our previous range namely to $4.75 to $4.80 this despite recent unfavorable currency movements.
Compared to our adjusted diluted EPS of $3.87 in 2010 this corresponds to an improved growth rate of approximately 22.5% to 24% at prevailing exchange rates and approximately 17.5% to 19% excluding currency.
And finally and perhaps most important we have demonstrated again our focus on shareholder returns and shown our confidence in our bright future with the board's decision in September to increase our dividend by a further 20.3%.
Thank you.
I will now be happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just actually wanted to touch on Japan.
You mentioned you feel comfortable that you're going to be able to retain around a 30% retail share in the market.
So I was hoping you could give us a few more details on what you're seeing in this market in terms of the consumer purchase patterns and then maybe also relative to what JT has been doing to take back some of their share.
Okay.
The published shares that you see there are also -- I mean on JT's side the shipment shares these now in the quarter or year-to-date are not really representative yet.
I mean it's simply the fact that of course the pipeline on JT's product had been empty and has been reloaded now to whatever JT considers to be a necessary level of their volumes.
So in terms really of what sticks with the consumer we simply have to wait a little bit until those shipment shares will equal really consumer offtake shares again which -- as has been the case in the past.
For now I really think that the consumer offtake shares which we measure in the C-stores give you the best indication.
This is of course not a national average.
This is a snapshot.
And also in those stores our shares before has been slightly higher than the national average.
But we continue to see even now in the beginning also of October the very latest numbers and we of course look at them every week that our shares continue to be slightly above 30% with Marlboro shares in there being stable.
So therefore I mean that of course makes us feel good about the retention shares that we will be able to keep and which will form a much better basis from which to grow going into next year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of your overall business in Asia it's obviously doing quite well even excluding Japan.
It appears in general the economy and consumers are faring much better in Asia than the rest of the world especially when we look at your margins.
Excluding currency and acquisitions I think it's up -- they're up almost 10%.
So hoping you can again just drill down a little deeper maybe give us a few more details on what the key dynamics are here specifically in Indonesia and then Korea maybe long-term growth rates you expect in those key markets.
Yes.
Indonesia -- Asia overall as I said on the prepared remarks as well is the growth engine of our company but Asia -- it's not Asia alone.
We are also having very decent results in the other regions.
Take the EEMA region.
Take the Latin America region but also take the EU region where we have returned to OCI growth.
So whilst the growth rates are the strongest in Asia the business is doing very well also elsewhere.
Now going precisely on the question on Indonesia.
While we have a country which has none of the European problems that European governments are facing: Very strong macroeconomic indicators GDP growing inflation under control and unemployment down growing population of course as well.
And all that taken together leads to a cigarette market that is year-to-date growing a bit more than 10%.
I mean this market is marching towards a total size of probably at one time reaching 300 billion cigarettes.
So it's a huge market actually the second most important in terms of size of Russia.
At the same time the tax outlook is manageable.
Excise taxes go up.
They go up slightly above inflation.
They are bringing the tax tiers over time together.
They are willing to do away with that loophole on using new legal entities to benefit from lower-tier tax advantages.
And we are having an excellent portfolio in the market where not only Sampoerna A which is the best but also Dji Sam Soe is doing fine.
U Mild is growing.
So we are doing really well and we have actually also good price points on our individual brands when it comes to the prices that those are being sold by retailers on a stick basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just one final question on currency headwinds that you'll be facing as we head into 2012.
What can you tell us about what you're expecting and maybe any of your hedging strategies? Can you give us an update? Okay.
I mean now for this year where we had forecast $0.25 currency favorability still around the second quarter earnings call that has been reduced now and we're now at prevailing rates.
We expect $0.20 for the year.
Well that's pretty much the number that we have year-to-date.
So therefore I wouldn't talk about unfavorable currency in the fourth quarter because actually at prevailing rates the fourth quarter of this year is going to be a currency-neutral quarter.
We will see what the actual rates will be but at prevailing rates you could expect a currency-neutral quarter.
Going into next year who can forecast the currency rates of next year? I can't.
I would only say we have so much focus these days again on the problems in Europe and around the euro.
The focus will come back on the United States as well.
That's what I would predict going into the -- into next year.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
Will you have an update on the fourth quarter call? Well we will of course when we do -- when we come to the guidance for 2012 which will be on the fourth quarter call in February of 2012.
There of course we will give the updates on what currency assumptions will be the basis of our guidance then.
Your next question comes the line of David Adelman with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First Hermann can you talk about the implicit outlook that you're making for the fourth quarter? It looks to me like on a local currency basis the new EPS guidance would only imply fairly modest underlying operating profit growth.
No.
I mean David there is no concern or no watchout that I would have to raise here for the fourth quarter.
I mean the fourth quarter is -- traditionally has always been a quarter where more of the expense is occurring than in earlier quarters of the year.
That's normal.
That's nothing new.
That's every year the case.
I mean we give full year guidances.
And as I just said I mean the $0.05 of currency unfavorability we have compensated with even further improved business outlook.
And as of now at prevailing rates the fourth quarter would be a currency-neutral quarter.
So no watchout.
Nothing to worry about.
Look at the full year guidance which I believe is a very very strong guidance and an expression of our confidence in our business and into our future as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly Hermann is the excise tax increase in Turkey the single most challenging one you're going to have to endure looked at over the last several years taking into account sort of the nature the magnitude of the increase the relative importance of the market your performance in the market and so on? Well I mean no I wouldn't say that.
It is of course disruptive a disruptive excise increase.
It is bad news.
But a year ago we have been discussing Mexico.
I wouldn't make much of a difference between the 2 at the end of the day.
What I would add and say on Turkey well I mean this -- the excise increase is of course a problem for all the competitors.
This excise increase is not benefiting the government.
I'm convinced about this is not generating really for the mid- and long-term solid increased revenue base.
The only one party benefiting from that would be people that sell at the very lowest end of the markets which is not the international companies at about TRY 4 per pack because at that level their allover need is only 1/4 of what it is at the premium end.
This doesn't make sense for the government either.
At the same time we of course can expect now a steep reaction -- at least in the first months a very steep reaction of the tax paid markets.
We certainly can expect an increase in the illicit rate.
These are all really straightforward rational arguments which give me the hope that there could be a second step later in the process in this story.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then 2 other quick things Hermann.
Have you had any mediated discussions as of this point with Australian authorities subsequent to the filing of your plan? Anything substantive? Yes.
We have had that discussion during the negotiation period which has ended under the Bilateral Investment Treaty between Hong Kong and Australia.
However no solution could be found in that discussion unfortunately.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly Hermann looking out now in the EU over the next several years how comfortable -- how confident are you that you can grow your operating income in that market over time in light of the fact that presumably there's going to be a difficult economic backdrop? There'll be presumably government austerity measures.
The governments will certainly be looking to increase excise taxes as a source of revenue.
Okay.
I mean there are of course the markets that we know already like Spain which are already in difficulties as of today.
However there are a couple of positive aspects to the EU business really because you asked the question in a longer context in a 2- 3-year context.
First it is really encouraging to see that we see clearly moderating total market declines.
So in the quarter or in also year-to-date we talk about 3.6% 3.7%.
And actually on a year-to-date basis half of that is just Spain.
So i.e.
all the other markets together are declining not even 2%.
Germany is growing.
France is stable and Italy is almost stable.
So that's pretty good.
What will the austerity measures do? Well the point really is what will unemployment do.
We have seen that of course a steep increase in dramatic levels of unemployment like in Spain have an impact.
I do not see Spain happening everywhere in Europe.
This is very overdone.
I don't think that's going to happen.
So then on excise tax pressure could be.
Of course I can't exclude it.
But given the financing needs of those governments I would rather see pressure on general VAT increases.
In Europe those could happen of course affecting all products including our products.
That being said a VAT increase has always been manageable at the end of the day in the past.
Why wouldn't we be able to manage it -- to manage through these occasions also going into the future.
Your next question comes the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> The -- in terms of your guidance Hermann if you looked at this year the underlying x currency growth of 17.5% to 19% growth is there a way that you can sort of point out how much of that was what you would characterize as sort of a one-off impact as a result of what happened in Japan or any other situation that you would sort of characterize as one-off? Well I wouldn't characterize anything as a one-off.
I would say Japan has been an example of us seizing a business opportunity that presented itself in an optimal manner.
And a price skirmish in Spain also well that's part of business.
What can you do? I wouldn't call this one a one-off.
This is just part of the business on the good and on the bad side.
Now really going to Japan in more detail well we can -- let's try to quantify a little bit what is the year-to-date benefit of us seizing this business opportunity.
I think the fairest way of doing that is that you take our year-to-date shipment share.
That is about 31.5%.
Our going-in share prior to the events was about 25%.
That's a rounded share gain of 6.5%.
On a total market of $144 billion that gives you roughly $9.5 billion in volumes.
You apply the very decent margins that you estimate for the Japanese market.
You deduct from that substantial air freight cost that was well above $100 million.
You deduct from there other cost and investments.
We are right now at a very competitive situation in the fourth quarter.
And we of course do everything that we need to do to support our brands.
You take off the tax rates and you arrive at something in the range of $250 million net of tax or something in the range of $0.15 on an EPS basis.
I have done a similar calculation at the end of the second quarter.
It was about $0.10 to $0.12 then.
I hope that helps.
Research Division</strong> It does help.
And I guess the context is more really looking at 2012 because -- and part of that I guess depends on how much share you retain in Japan because we'll be lapping some of the benefit you saw in Q2 as a result of this -- the disruption.
But I guess your point is if you take the year-to-date number of 31.5% and if you sort of think about that 30% that you're seeing at the offtake trend that would sort of be the comparable number just on -- in terms of on the volume side.
And then I guess on the pricing side though because in 2011 you also saw the benefit of the price increases in Japan and the volume decline coming in better than expected.
So is it fair to think about that was -- that's also a partial benefit to your 2011 earnings growth in terms of x currency basis and then the comparison in 2012 is not as positive I guess depending on what the tax situation unfolds in Japan.
Exactly.
I mean the most important point you just said it well what is going to be the tax and price situation going into 2012 which is very hard to predict now.
I think it's easy to predict that the market decline will be much more moderate than what we have seen this year because nobody expects a tax and price hike of the dimension that we have seen in October 2012.
Where it stands now in terms of tax in Japan is that the DPJ tax council has come out with a proposed law of JPY 40 per pack to be discussed with opposition parties which we're against.
In recent discussions we also have heard that eventually excise tax could be excluded altogether from the financing of the reconstruction package.
However let's be clear here.
Even an exclusion from that package does not mean an exclusion of tax measures in the ordinary budget.
So we will have to see what's going to come out in terms of tax and thereafter in terms of price because well the central approval by the Finance Ministry of price increases is also still in place.
So a lot of question marks at this point in time.
We will see the outcome but you mentioned it.
I mean we will of course start the year in Japan from a much stronger base than we have been starting the year in 2011.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Hermann just following up on David's question about EU region.
I guess just in terms of the persistent market share losses that you've been experiencing and obviously more the macro challenges and the fact that you're more exposed to the premium segment than others are you rethinking sort of your brand portfolio strategy in any meaningful way to be a little bit more aggressive in some of the value segment? I think you talked about this a little bit at your analyst meeting but just wanted to get an update on how you're thinking about sort of share versus maybe a mix or profit in that region.
I mean we certainly want the EU region to return to OCI growth.
Now in the European context we have seen a number of markets their brands over the last years have been repositioned to the low end.
We have answered that in the markets where it was necessary this brand out of our portfolio.
I mean Germany is a much different situation than it has been a couple of years ago.
We have Marlboro there.
Yes but we also have today there an L&amp;M the fastest growing brand in the market.
The market -- the brand with the highest young adult smoker share in the market and we are right now complementing that with Chesterfield at the same price level in the German market.
Taken all together well the market share in the German market actually has been growing.
So our team there and we have a very strong team in Germany is doing an excellent job and it begins to pay off.
If you move over to France that's a different situation there.
There actually we have 2 growing premium brands.
Both Philip Morris and Marlboro are doing extremely well in an otherwise stable market.
The market where we are underrepresented at the low end clearly is Italy where our share at the low price segment of the market is well below our overall total market share in the market.
So it's a marketing it's a brand challenge.
It's a sales challenge but we have the portfolio to do something there.
And it's not that we wake up to it now.
We do something already for the last years.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Fell with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Two things.
On Japan Hermann you mentioned that you weren't sure whether or not shipments would be coming into line with consumer offtake until Q4 or possibly Q1.
Does that apply to the industry as a whole or your own business as well? And I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit more around the factors which create that uncertainty still.
No.
You see I mean it certainly is not coming from our side but I simply don't know what the individual inventory situation of competitors is and to what extent they bring volume into the market to what extent they think that this is the inventory levels that they need.
So therefore I'm just -- I can't know if those will be already the going-in and going-on volumes that are really consumed by the smokers every month.
So there...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
With regards to your own business there's no -- the reason to believe that shipments and offtakes should match each other more closely in the fourth quarter.
Absolutely.
We had no disruption.
We just delivered a little more than we usually did.
But we kept our business going all through but there is nothing of that nature on our business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick question on the EEMA region where you had quite a nice volume recovery in the third quarter.
I'm assuming Turkey will reverse.
But I'm wondering about Ukraine as well which had strong growth in the quarter.
Does that reverse in the fourth quarter i.e.
is the third quarter impact undone? Or does it just normalize in Ukraine? Ukraine is now normalizing.
Q3 of this year actually in terms of comparison benefits from a very weak Q3 of last year.
Q3 2010 had to de-load after the July 2010 price increase which had a load in Q2 of 2010.
So therefore I mean we are benefiting in Q3 now from these relatively easy comps.
And we are now kind of out of that and we should see now a situation that normalizes in the Ukrainian markets.
Let's hope that we have no new disruptions nothing on the horizon.
Ukraine is one of the markets where you never know.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple questions for you.
I guess I wanted to better understand.
You've had obviously a nice windfall this year in terms of a profit benefit from foreign currency and certainly some very good performances in Japan.
And I just want to understand the extent to which you are if you will reinvesting back in the business.
You've mentioned some brand building activities of course in Russia.
I think it's been -- that's been ongoing this year.
I wonder if there's a little bit more color you can give on that.
And then also again are you investing back in Japan or other markets to take advantage of some of this benefit you have coming through to your earnings? Okay.
I mean we really don't run our business different if the currency is in our favor or is temporarily against us.
We always invest into our brands into the growth of the future specifically in Russia.
I mean Russia is big.
Russia is not just Moscow and St.
Petersburg.
So we need to do more there in terms of work for our brands.
We want to do also -- to do more there in terms of our infrastructure given that Russia is such a large market a very profitable market with tremendous potential going forward.
So we put the necessary money behind.
We are not doing any short-term swings here.
This is a strategy that we started to pursue last year that we are pursuing this year and will continue to pursue also next year.
In Japan it's -- there it's really the fourth quarter is of course in terms of point-of-sale presence in terms of point-of-sale actions after all the competitors being backed before their products in the market a highly competitive situation: fight for shelf space fight for small promotional offers that you make to your consumers.
However please let's all not forget there is fixed retail prices in the Japanese market i.e.
one-off on prices or buy 2 get 1 for free.
All of that does not exist and is not allowed in the Japanese market.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Just one follow-up then on the Russia activities.
I'm just curious if those -- obviously it's a broad brand building activity but obviously Marlboro has been quite weak there.
So is it targeting that brand? Is it -- explicitly that's -- it could help your performance in that market.
Yes.
We are not happy I've said that before with the performance of Marlboro.
I mean it's just 2% share of market in a market that big and that important like Russia is of course disappointing for Marlboro and we definitely think that Marlboro can do more.
There is -- again there is a marketing challenge.
It can be that we have such little volumes for that brand in the markets.
We will invest behind.
We will build the brand equity and we want to bring that brand also on a growth trajectory as in so many other markets in the world in most markets in the world actually.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And just the last follow-up would be on Spain.
In this quarter you had obviously the ups and downs of pricing.
And I'm just curious so you had about a -- it was 10% decline roughly in the category volume in Spain in the quarter.
Do you think that weakens a bit just due to the price realization that's now coming through in the fourth quarter? Is that again one that could look more like cases that we saw like in Q1 and Q2 where that market was down pretty aggressively? Yes.
I mean the Q3 market might now be influenced a little bit here and there by retailers loading some competitor volumes ahead of their price increases.
So I think you'd best look at the year-to-date one.
And the full year estimate is I don't know 15% 18% something in that range.
So yes it's a continued steep market decline driven by the economic situation there.
It will not continue at those rates forever.
We will see.
We will have to wait now for a new government.
We will have to wait for the measures budgetary measures.
I was mentioning VAT.
We will see.
Whatever the new government will want to do the price skirmishes that we have had in the market of course have so far kind of prevented us to reap the benefits of earlier price increases.
Well I said the skirmishes are over so at least that benefit should accrue now.
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bloomquist with Berenberg Bank.
Research Division</strong> If we could circle back on just the overall EEMA organic profit growth.
That accelerated quite noticeably in Q3 14%; 5% Q2.
How much of that is simply due to PMI slowing up its brand spend back? How much of that is just due to the markets' very strong pricing and volume growth? And then related to do that is PMI happy with where L&amp;M is in the EEMA region? Or is there still more work to do? Well if you look -- I mean if you look at the brands there and now we talk EEMA region as a whole.
Then in the third quarter I see a Parliament growing 15.9%.
I see a Marlboro growing 10.2% and all our premium brands then together by 10.5%.
That's pretty good I would say.
If I then look at L&amp;M which yes has left -- or has had problems in Russia.
But if you take L&amp;M for the EEMA region it's up 6.1% and on a year-to-date basis 3.8%.
So no our portfolio is doing pretty well.
The negatives you have a lot of heritage brands.
But the future of course and the profitability is not in the previously local acquired brands.
It's in our international brands in that part of the world.
So pretty happy about the overall performance of our portfolio thanks to Duhair and Gatness [ph].
Research Division</strong> Okay super.
And then following up in slightly more detail on the plain packaging situation in Australia.
Is it fair to expect that the Senate does pass both bills in November? And then has PMI selected and started the formation of the arbitration tribunal at this point? Well the vote in the Senate hasn't taken place.
We will see when it takes place.
As the Health Minister herself has said it might -- or that probably will lead to a delay in the implementation date.
We are of course ramping up the legal cases that as we said we will vigorously pursue all the avenues the bilateral investment treaty case but also other avenues domestic and you name it.
So we are of course in full swing to be ready for this situation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly circling back on Turkey.
It looked like from news reports that PMI took basically TRY 2 per pack price increases more than you needed perhaps in low-price but not enough to pass it through in premium.
On a portfolio basis is PMI roughly whole? Or is there a negative impact from simply not being able to pass through all of the increase in the premium segment where PMI is very strong? Well I think I said earlier if you have brands at the very lowest end of the market that have an allover need of TRY 0.7 whereas it's TRY 3 around at the premium end then it's no longer a mathematical exercise and you have to protect your entire brand portfolio which is what we did.
But as I said earlier I would still hope that there could be a second step in that story later because the rational arguments are clearly on our side.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> My first question has to do with the EEMA region and the favorable trade inventory shift that you saw in Saudi Arabia and if you can offer some more color on that please.
Well Saudi Arabia is an important and very profitable market for us.
A year or 2 years ago we had some share problems there.
We are doing well.
We have implemented a price increase in the otherwise very very profitable Saudi Arabia market.
So that's really what it is.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just in thinking about FX and I fully appreciate that it's so hard to know kind of where currencies will go from here.
But it might be helpful if you could just give us a reminder please from a transaction standpoint where your biggest cross-rate exposures are.
Well I mean let me answer it that way.
We have a huge basket of currencies that play into the overall results.
This year year-to-date the currency that is bringing the biggest variance positive variance is the yen.
Last year on the total year results it actually was the Indonesian rupee i.e.
telling you in none of those years it was actually the euro although the euro of course plays also a role.
And then you have emerging market currencies that are also of significance being the ruble I said the Indonesian rupee the Turkish lira the Mexican peso.
These are all currencies that go into that basket.
So we have a broad basket of those worldwide currencies.
Research Division</strong> And the exposure to those currencies it's equivalent on a translation versus a transaction basis? Or do you have an outside -- outsized excuse me exposure to one or a small group of them from your assets? I mean at the end of the day I mean as I said we run the business on a constant currency basis.
And you will not find us ever into any speculative hedges what I call income hedges.
So that's the way we run it: no speculation and run the business the same way the proper way if currency is in your favor or if it's temporarily against you.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
My last question has to do with the health of the consumer in the EU.
And I'm just curious as you went through the quarter did you see any trends that would have reflected kind of deteriorating consumer confidence accelerating trade down as you worked towards the end of the quarter or anything like that? No.
Honestly I mean all the media coverage that we see these days on Europe that doesn't have an impact on cigarette consumption.
Even declining stock prices on the equity markets don't really change consumption.
Steep increases in unemployment will change consumption.
Spain was an example of that last year.
My own forecast will be that I wouldn't see Europe collapse.
It's just a bit too much focus on the European problems at this point in time.
It will shift to other parts of the world.
Your next question comes from the line of David Hayes with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Just on Brazil I know it's a smaller market for you in Lat Am.
But obviously there's going to be this tax change that's proposed in February.
I was wondering whether you got any more details on that and specifically I guess whether the change in structure is in some way beneficial for your competitive position in that market.
I seem to recall there could be a change there that potentially helps.
And then just in Korea obviously good share gains there.
But I just wanted to confirm that you're still pricing slightly below BAT and JT in that marketplace.
I think they're pricing up earlier in the year.
And then finally for me just on cost saves.
Obviously you made the point on the presentation that you're confident of exceeding the current plans this year.
I just wondered whether you can give us any kind of indications on what plans might be for next year in terms of whether more cost saving or similar levels of cost saving as you're achieving in 2011.
Okay Brazil first.
Yes there is a new excise tax law there which should provide a more level playing field over time.
It's not immediately.
It is phased in over time and that system then would eliminate the -- I only can call it absurd difference in taxation linked to packaging if the cigarette is in a box or in a soft pack.
So yes a level playing field is always something good for us and beneficial and fairer going forward.
Moving over to Korea.
As I have said before I mean the real challenge in Korea also is to find a multi-year tax plan and tax structure plan in that market and that actually prevails for us over short-term profitability considerations.
And the third one on cost savings.
Well we have had a one-year target because that keeps an organization focused.
You'll see that the focus has paid off.
As we expect it's too early to say for next year.
But yes there will be a target for next year as well.
We will talk about that in February.
Our next question comes from the line of Ann Gurkin with Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to circle back on Russia a little bit.
Given the tough volume results in Russia is there a need to increase investment behind brands in Russia? Or is there a change in the consumer behavior? Can you just address that a little more? No.
I mean on our side yes we want to do more on our brands because we simply think that we can do better.
When you come to -- when we talk about overall volumes that the Russian market has slightly declined last year at about 2% I would say.
For this year I would expect a little less than 2%.
But there is of course the consequence also of the fairly frequent price increases that happened in the market.
So in that sense consumers have been forced to upgrade quite a bit because prices over the last 3 years have come up quite a bit at the low end.
This would be a combined average growth of the prices in the range of 25%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as we look into '12 and you've talked about this a little bit on the call but is there a growing challenge from numerous excise tax increases in different markets? Is it more of a challenge than maybe expected at the beginning of '11 as we looked out to '12? Is there any kind of comment you can give to that? Well excise taxes are a challenge every year.
They are the single most important factor playing into our business.
We have had a year 2009 with 2 surprises; '10 with 5 surprises; '11 with 1.
And now we have had recently one for Turkey which will go into 2012.
We have managed through those in the previous years and I really think that we will be able to manage through 2012 as well.
Bad news can always happen.
However thanks to our global footprint we have always been able to balance the unexpected bad with unexpected good.
So I think that should be the case going forward as well.
That's simply the advantage of such a broad global footprint as we have it.
Our next question comes from the line of Karen Lamark with Federated Investors.
My questions have been asked.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Burritt with Bloomberg News.
By Bloomberg's measure of profitability Philip Morris I think ranks second in the S&amp;P 500.
And I know this is kind of a broad question but how do you keep that rolling? And what's the biggest challenge to that performance? Well I mean the key if you like the bigger picture here and therefore I mean going into the future well then they start -- what is the starting point here? The starting point for PMI at this point really is that we are having a blockbuster third quarter and that we are guiding to an excellent year 2011 i.e.
we are and will be entering 2012 with really strong business momentum.
Our confidence is expressed in the recent 20% dividend increase.
Now going into 2012 on the key question there the first one we have built the financial crisis triggered an economy crisis.
We have had that on the call.
We will see what the economies do in parts of the world.
It's not going to be the same all over the world.
But PMI is a company that has been able to deliver in the good and in the bad times.
And we have a portfolio to do that in the good and in the bad times because it covers all price points.
The second key question always is will governments make rational excise tax decisions? We believe yes but hiccups can happen.
Turkey will always happen.
But net-net we think we expect them to be manageable.
The third one is probably really market sizes overall.
I don't expect big changes in the trends there.
I mentioned before that the EU declines are moderating that in the big Russian market I see only a slight decline.
In the very big Indonesian market we see strong growth.
In the big Japan market it will depend a bit on the tax.
Then the other point would be -- the fourth point probably is the pricing environment.
Will the rational pricing environment continue? I believe yes that -- and I believe that Spain was the exception to the rule.
And contrary to other consumer product companies prices in the cigarette industry our prices usually stick because governments around the world do not want to see cigarette prices coming down.
The next point is that you have always to do your homework and keep your cost under control which is what we are doing.
I have elaborated on that.
Then we are a tremendous cash flow generator.
We have generated over the first 9 months of this year an average of $1 billion in free cash flow per month $9 billion year-to-date.
Our cash flow generation capabilities are unchanged and also our shareholder orientation is unchanged.
So -- and the last point I mentioned it before on the question before our global footprint always allows you to balance the bad with the good because of a global scale.
So I think these are the ingredients that make up business success.
And we are working hard and we have been working hard to get where we are.
And we will keep on working hard to deliver for our shareholders also in the future.
At this time we have no further questions.
I now like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Rolli for any closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us on today's call.
If you have any follow-up questions you can contact the Investor Relations team here in Lausanne.
Thank you very much and have a great day.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Philip Morris International Fourth Quarter 2011 Year-End Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is scheduled to last about 1 hour including remarks by Philip Morris International management and the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Nick Rolli Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Welcome.
Thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we issued a press release containing detailed information on our 2011 full year and fourth quarter results.
You may access the release on our website at www.pmi.com.
During our call this afternoon we'll be talking about results for the full year or fourth quarter 2011 and comparing them with the same period in 2010 unless otherwise stated.
References to volumes are for PMI shipments.
Industry volume and market shares are the latest data available from a number of sources.
Organic volume refers to volume excluding acquisitions which for the purposes of this presentation also includes our business combination with Fortune Tobacco Corporation in the Philippines.
Net revenues exclude excise taxes.
Operating company's income or OCI is defined as operating income before general corporate expenses and the amortization of intangibles.
You'll find data tables showing how we made adjustments to net revenues and OCI for currency acquisitions asset impairment exit and other costs.
Free cash flow calculations and adjustments to earnings per share or EPS as well as reconciliations to U.S.
GAAP measures at the end of today's webcast slides which are posted on our website.
Today's remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results.
I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statements disclosure in today's presentation and press release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.
It's now my pleasure to introduce Louis Camilleri Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Hermann Waldemer Chief Financial Officer who will join Louis for the question-and-answer period.
Louis? Thank you Nick.
And good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
2011 was a superb year for Philip Morris International.
We returned to organic volume growth thanks notably to our strong performance in Indonesia and in Japan where we benefited from our excellent execution in response to the tragic events there last March.
We achieved global share growth for the fourth consecutive year driven by our superior brand portfolio.
Our solid volume performance strong pricing and significant productivity savings led to record profitability.
Finally and perhaps most importantly we continued to generate strong cash flow which enabled us to provide generous returns to our shareholders.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 we increased net revenues and adjusted operating company's income or OCI excluding currency and acquisitions by 8.2% and 7% respectively and grew our adjusted diluted earnings per share excluding currency by 13.4%.
The growth in adjusted OCI excluding currency and acquisitions was driven by higher pricing particularly in the EEMA and EU regions and favorable volume mix principally in Asia partly offset by higher costs reflecting increased marketing investment in several important markets such as Germany Japan and Russia.
In the Asia region adjusted OCI excluding currency and acquisitions was up by an impressive 22.6% in the quarter driven by strong growth in Australia Indonesia Japan Korea and the Philippines and by a robust 10.5% on the same basis in the EEMA region.
These increases more than compensated for declines in our 2 other regions.
In the EU region adjusted OCI excluding currency was down 4.3% adversely impacted by unfavorable volume mix notably in Italy and Spain.
In addition we increased our marketing investments substantially in the quarter behind a new Marlboro marketing campaign in Germany Marlboro Beyond capsule product launches in France and Switzerland and the launch of Marlboro Core Flavor in Spain.
In the Latin America and Canada region unfavorable volume mix primarily volume in Mexico and higher expenditures contributed to a 6.3% decline in the quarter in adjusted OCI excluding currency and acquisitions.
On a full year basis net revenues and adjusted OCI excluding currency and acquisitions rose by 9.2% and 14% respectively and the growth of our adjusted diluted earnings per share excluding currency was an outstanding 21.2%.
In recent months the euro has weakened mainly due to the sovereign debt issues in Europe and several emerging market currencies have also depreciated against the U.S.
dollar.
At prevailing exchange rates we forecast a currency headwind of approximately $0.10 per share this year with the largest impact expected to come in the second and third quarters.
I would like to stress that this would simply bring us back about halfway to the currency levels generally prevalent in 2010 as we benefited from a $0.19 per share currency favorability in 2011.
We have excellent business momentum going into 2012 which will enable us to fully compensate for the earnings per share hurdle of $0.10 related to the exceptional circumstances in Japan in 2011.
The comparison for Japan will of course be especially difficult in the second quarter of this year.
For the full year 2012 we are forecasting reported diluted earnings per share guidance at prevailing exchange rates to be in the range of $5.25 to $5.35 compared to $4.85 in 2011.
Excluding the currency headwind this new guidance range represents a growth rate of approximately 10% to 12% compared to adjusted diluted earnings per share of $4.88 in 2011.
Thus I am delighted to reconfirm that we expect to achieve results in 2012 that will again meet our mid- to long-term currency-neutral annual growth targets this despite the Japan hurdle I just mentioned.
Our strong business results have generated tremendous and growing amounts of cash.
Our free cash flow has grown at a double-digit compound annual growth rate since 2008 to reach $9.6 billion in 2011 despite sizable contributions of more than $500 million into our main employee pension funds last year.
We expect continued cash flow growth in the years ahead which will enable us to provide our shareholders with generous returns.
We initiated our current $12 billion 3-year share repurchase program in May 2010.
At the end of 2011 we had $3.6 billion left under this authorization and we expect to complete our current program well ahead of schedule.
We plan to spend $6 billion in total on share repurchases during this year.
We remain confident in our future as the key drivers of our strong 2011 performance are expected to remain in place in 2012.
These are a manageable excise tax environment stable industry volume trends our superior brand portfolio our market share growth a favorable pricing environment limited input cost increases and strong productivity gains.
The threat of disruptive excise taxes has always been a concern.
However most governments appear to have understood that large disruptive excise tax increases usually do not generate the targeted increase in government revenues nor are they sustainable.
Consequently there have been no excise tax increases implemented or announced so far this year that we would deem to be extreme in any of our key markets despite large government budget deficits in numerous countries.
On the contrary we are witnessing a more reasonable approach both in terms of incidents and the structure of excise taxes most notably in the European Union as governments are keen to secure sustainable revenue streams from tobacco taxation.
Several countries in Europe are most likely to increase general VAT rates this year.
But overall we believe that such increases should be manageable.
We anticipate that cigarette industry volume trends will remain similar to those prevalent last year.
We see further volume growth opportunities in non-OECD markets where the adult smoking population is expanding and where the economy is vibrant most notably in Asia and the Middle East.
The industry volume decline in the largest OECD markets and in Eastern Europe is expected to be moderate.
The one area of significant concern remains Southern Europe where unemployment remains notoriously high and is regretfully still rising.
We expect PMI's organic cigarette volume performance in 2012 to be relatively flat despite the hurdle we face in Japan.
This is better than the 5-year total industry volume trend excluding China that we forecast in November last year.
Our superior geographic footprint and brand portfolio are driving our share growth momentum.
We expect to outperform the industry again in 2012.
In 2011 we gained 1.2 share points in our top 30 OCI markets to reach a level of 36.3%.
We generated particularly strong market share gains in OECD markets driven by Germany Japan Korea and Turkey and increased market shares in a number of important non-OECD markets such as Indonesia and Russia.
Every single one of our top 10 brands realized volume gains in 2011 whether sold in the premium mid- or low-priced segments or whether international or local.
The strength of our portfolio is underscored by the fact that these top 10 brands accounted for approximately 75% of our worldwide volume last year.
Marlboro continues to steadily gain market share on a global basis driven by its strong performance in Asia and the EEMA region which has more than offset the pressure on the premium segment in Western Europe.
This growth has been propelled by the new architecture the launch of consumer-relevant line extensions and enhanced consumer engagement.
Parliament which has a luxury positioning and is sold at an above-premium price performed exceptionally well with an increase in shipment volume of 12.1% last year and 18.7% in the fourth quarter alone.
In 2011 Parliament share grew in its 5 major markets of Kazakhstan Korea Russia Turkey and Ukraine.
L&amp;M our second-largest brand grew by 1.7% to reach 90 billion units in 2011.
This was achieved through continued market share gains in the European Union region most notably in Germany where the brand grew by 1.1 share points to reach a market share of 10.4%.
Importantly as the year unfolded we were able to stabilize the brand's share in the EEMA region and particularly in Russia where it has been under pressure for the past few years.
Overall we achieved a favorable volume/mix variance of $422 million in 2011.
This represents an improvement of $1.1 billion compared to 2010.
In 2011 our pricing variance reached $1.9 billion half of which came from the Asia region well above the $1.6 billion average achieved over the previous 3 years.
The favorable pricing environment is expected to continue to be a key driver of our growth in 2012.
Since the beginning of the year we have announced or implemented price increases notably in Germany Indonesia Mexico Russia and more recently in Korea.
In fact we have already in place price increases which cumulatively account for some 70% of the pricing variance included in our 2012 earnings per share guidance.
Adjusted OCI margins improved further in 2011 to reach 44.2% excluding currency and acquisitions driven by higher prices the positive impact of geographic mix particularly from Japan and productivity savings which surpassed our $250 million target.
At the same time we made significant investments in business infrastructure in Russia as well as in our brands in Japan and other markets notably behind the successful launch of consumer-relevant line extensions.
Going forward we forecast moderate increases in tobacco leaf prices and direct material costs broadly in line with inflation.
With the exception of higher costs relating to the imposition of reduced cigarette ignition propensity or RCIP paper in Europe we are targeting a further $300 million in pretax productivity savings in 2012 predominantly derived from manufacturing and supply chain initiatives.
We continue to transform a considerably higher proportion of our growing net revenues into free cash flow than our consumer products and tobacco industry peers.
Our strong and growing cash flow fuels an attractive dividend and share repurchase program.
We've increased our dividend by 67.4% since 2008 and repurchased nearly 20% of our shares outstanding at the time of the spin.
In 2011 we outperformed every company in the Dow Jones Industrial Average in terms of shareholder returns and share price appreciation with gains of 39.8% and 34.1% respectively.
Over the period of March 28 2008 through the end of December 2011 we have returned approximately $37 billion to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases or nearly 30% of our current market capitalization.
While the economic environment particularly in Southern Europe remains fragile and continued currency volatility is an obvious concern we remain optimistic that our growth prospects are sound despite the comparison to what was a banner year for Philip Morris International.
Thank you for your attention.
Hermann and I will now be happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instruction] Our first question comes from David Adelman of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you about 2 markets one is Japan and then Russia.
Let me start with Japan.
Can you talk to us how you envision the 28.2% share entering the year how you see that evolving throughout 2012.
What type of impact if any do you think you'll see from JT's plethora of pending product launches? And also as your share has gone up have you been able to capture a greater share of convenient store shelf space? Well our ambition is to continue to grow our share David.
In January our share was 28.3% fourth quarter was 28.2%.
We also have a plethora of new products coming up.
So in terms of share our ambition certainly is to continue to grow share in this important market.
And I think we have a number of exciting programs there.
I think also in terms of the macro picture the markets performed much more strongly than we had originally anticipated at this time last year.
Ultimately volume was only down about 10.5% last year.
And you may recall that our concern was it would be down about double that.
So it's not just a share story it's also volume story.
And I think in terms of our presence in convenience vending generally in terms of consumer engagement and trade engagement we are very competitive.
And as I said in my remarks we have increased our spending in Japan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in Russia Louis can you speak to the execution plan behind Marlboro? How long do you think it's really going to take to have a meaningful increase in market share? And have you done anything in test markets or in smaller cities that has some promising indications? You're right to point out that Marlboro in Russia has been an issue for us and we've clearly devoted a lot of resources to try and find a solution for Marlboro in Russia.
We have beefed up our organization considerably.
And the good news is that last year starting last summer we did one main test in the city particularly focused on Russia and Marlboro's potential there and I must say the results of all the activities that we did in that city in Russia provided excellent results and really moved the needle quite considerably in terms of Marlboro.
It also pointed out some of Marlboro's weaknesses to us.
But I would say that probably for PMI that market test was not only important for Russia but a lot of the learnings of what we did there would be applied elsewhere in the world.
But going back to Russia what we did it was in Yekaterinburg you will see that there will be expansion this year and we anticipate more spending in Russia.
Marlboro's been losing share for some time now.
I think we now have to focus on its issues.
We know what to do.
I'm hopeful that we can grow share.
Whether it will be a significant brand will take quite a lot of time David.
Your next question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Louis so if I just take your volume guidance for 2012 sort of flat even if you're lapping the Japan impact so that implies if you take Japan out you're probably looking for an acceleration in terms of other markets outside of Japan.
So I'm just curious if you can just walk through where do you feel confidence that the volume can actually accelerate.
Can Indonesia continue to grow at this 20% rate? No I don't think Indonesia is going to be growing at 20% volume rate.
I think it's generally strength across-the-board Judy.
If I look at our share performance in the fourth quarter and I'm talking just share here in the vast majority of markets we did better than the full year so it shows that we have momentum.
I think the big difference is that we anticipate that volume in the EU will be better than it was in 2011 because a lot of the issues are potentially behind us.
Southern Europe remains a concern but we still believe that we can do better in the EU than we did in 2011.
Asia and EEMA will continue to propel our growth and we also believe that there are growth prospects in Latin America and Canada because share performance in Latin America has actually been quite spectacular.
But obviously Mexico was a big issue in 2011 with a significant decrease in consumption which affected the whole region's performance.
And as you know there's no tax increase in Mexico this year.
So hopefully we're looking a much better comparison than we did in 2011.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just going back to Japan Louis I guess one downside of perhaps the 2011 success in Japan is Japan is now a much bigger portion of your overall profit as well as the overall Asia profit.
And it is one market where pricing freedom is limited.
So can you help us understand how you grow profit in that market without the pricing freedom? And do you need to see acceleration in profit of other Asian markets to really drive continuous healthy profit growth in the Asia region? Well it's a downside I can actually live with.
But I would say that you're right Japan is obviously a significant profit center.
I think in terms of growth going forward we had proven that in fact we had probably cracked the pricing freedom issue back in 2010.
Now clearly JT is the leader there.
You know that the government is targeting reducing their stake in the company.
And from everything I read JT is focused on becoming much more shareholder-friendly in terms of dividend share repurchases et cetera.
So I think pricing freedom per se is likely to get better over time.
This year we do not anticipate any tax increases.
And we think we have significant share growth potential in that market.
Going to the rest of Asia we believe that Asia will continue to be the growth engine of this company and that there is still a lot to accomplish in our existing markets but also in virgin territories.
So yes the rest of Asia will certainly grow faster than Japan but I wouldn't write off Japan at all Judy.
I should add that we anticipate that this year partially because of the strength of the yen but despite the huge hurdle we face we anticipate that our income in Japan will be higher than it was in 2011.
Research Division</strong> On a constant currency basis.
No I said partially...
Research Division</strong> With the yen.
Okay.
Your next question comes from Erik Bloomquist of Berenberg Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to circle back on some of the markets.
In particular given your comments on the outlook for Asia I was wondering if you could update us on the Philippines business and where things are at both in terms of the cost saves but more importantly the outlook for that business as now it has been a while with PMI really in control of that operation.
We're delighted with the business combination in the Philippines.
Everything is going according to plan and in fact beyond plan.
Income is up significantly driven by both pricing share growth as well as cost saves.
We're ahead of our target in terms of cost saves.
And there is more to come this year.
We've gained share the market was down last year because of the price increases and the tax increase in early 2011.
In 2012 there's no tax per se.
Share growth continues so the outlook in the Philippines is really quite excellent.
We're now focused on merging our distribution arms.
And that I think will give us even more leverage with the trade and really be able to capitalize on the entire brand portfolio.
Does that answer your question Erik? Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
And then with respect to Plain Packaging I was wondering if you can update us on where we're at in that process.
Obviously the implementation is in December 2012 and I believe we can expect a hearing in April.
So I was curious both in terms of what it looks like in the Australian High Court challenge but then also the BIT challenge and where things stand with the WTO.
Okay I'll try to give you a brief summary.
You may have read that the government has filed its defense in the High Court a couple of days ago I believe.
And there is a hearing on procedural matters I believe on February 23 and we'll take it from there.
One of the focus areas will be on the facts behind the claim in terms of we believe that there's been an acquisition of property and the government does not believe that there's been an acquisition of property.
And the court will have to decide what are the relevant facts related to that specific legal claim and if there's disagreement on those facts that may delay the whole process.
If there's agreements there's likely to be a decision in late summer or the fall.
But from everything we see it seems that there may be significant disagreement on the factual components of the claim.
On the BIT claim where we stand is that both parties have chosen the arbitrators that represent them.
And those 2 now are scheduled to choose the third one.
So that will take a little while.
And really the case won't really start until this summer.
But it's likely to be a 2-year process at best.
And in terms of the WTO there's not much to report other than we are aware that a number of countries have expressed a strong desire to make a claim against Australia to the WTO.
So we're really in the early days of all the litigation efforts the 3 key efforts but we remain vigorous in our intent to pursue our rights vis-à-vis Australia.
Research Division</strong> And if I could follow up on that briefly is it fair to think that other countries' considerations of Plain Packaging is likely to be that any efforts toward moving into a plain packaging environment are likely to be on hold given the Australian litigation? Is that a fair view from your perspective? I'm not sure Erik.
Clearly they're all watching Australia with a close eye.
The legal situation changes depending on the geographies.
I think that there are a number of countries that are looking at it very seriously New Zealand is one.
The U.K.
is starting a consultation phase.
But I think that in most instances people will realize that Plain Packaging does not achieve the objectives that those acts would hopefully entail.
In fact there are such huge unintended consequences that I think it would be detrimental to public health.
And it certainly will not reduce consumption of cigarettes which is the main aim here.
Your next question comes from Christopher Growe of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you.
Early in your remarks Louis you commented on a $0.10 hurdle from Japan.
I just want to understand that figure because I think you were running at a $0.15 benefit.
Did I understand that correctly? Or what's the difference in the calculation there? What we've said is if you look at 2011 the increment of the special situation in Japan the $0.15 was through the third quarter.
For the full year it's $0.18 Chris.
That was the impact on 2011.
If you now look forward to 2012 we clearly have gained share and we've retained that share.
So that's in the base which is this 28.2%.
Hence the -- really which happened in the second quarter of last year where the share was significantly higher than that that actually is the way we view the hurdle for 2012.
And therefore it's a different number and that number is $0.10.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
The other question I had for you is just in relation to Marlboro.
Obviously the brand did remarkably well in 2011.
Is part of your volume growth plans -- I'm sure you don't want to get too detailed on these plans but do you expect Marlboro growth? And I guess I can go a step further than that.
I was just curious that that's a brand you've invested pretty heavily in with new products and promotional campaigns.
You labeled some of those for some of the Western European markets in your remarks.
Do you have enough sort of new activity there? Do you think that the Marlboro brand could kind of keep up with the overall company's volume growth in 2012? I would certainly hope so yes.
And we still anticipate a number of programs behind Marlboro.
It has suffered in a few markets.
But even if you take the European Union and you separate the south versus the north the north has done much better.
And we're confident that we can still improve that situation.
In the south essentially Marlboro stands alone in the premium segment everybody has vacated that segment.
And we had programs in place in terms of lathering the brand through the Core Flavor extensions the Pocket Pack.
And that seems to have been quite successful.
If you take Greece Marlboro share is actually up in Greece which is quite a spectacular performance.
So we'll see as things unfold.
But clearly our ambition is to ensure that Marlboro continues to grow and actually hopefully outpaces the total volume growth of the company.
Your next question comes from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> My first question is on Parliament your Parliament brand which as you mentioned has been generating faster growth and at the above-premium price point.
So could you talk a little bit more about why you think this is occurring? Is it driven by improving economic trends in key markets? Or have you been increasing marketing spend behind the brand? And then also how sustainable is this growth for Parliament? And are there further opportunities to extend the brand into other markets? Well clearly because it's a luxury brand Bonnie it is less sensitive to price than a brand such as Marlboro.
And it has proven to be extremely resilient.
There has been a lot of innovation behind Parliament so far extremely successful.
It's a very special brand.
Its recessed filter has been copied by others in a number of markets Turkey in particular.
But even then Parliament continues to grow.
So it has a good presence in a luxury segment that is less prone to down trading and we're seeing the results which are pretty spectacular.
I don't know what else I could add.
LLC Research Division</strong> No that sounds good.
And then I have another question in terms of your business in Asia.
And after modeling it out it's clear to me that your top line market should continue to drive the bulk of the profitability in the region in the next 3 years particularly Indonesia.
But I'd like to hear from you how you think about sort of the mix of the countries within your Asian region and how that might evolve and specifically in regards to your investment cycle and infrastructure build in some of the other growing markets such as Thailand Vietnam India sort of where you're at with some of those maybe smaller markets for you at this point.
Okay let me attempt.
We talked about Japan earlier and I think Japan will always remain a very important market for Asia.
Korea we feel very good about Korea in terms of its share growth.
We just took a price increase and Korea will continue in our mind to show long-term growth.
Our share may suffer a bit because KT&amp;G has not increased its prices.
But within the portfolio we feel very good about our business in Korea.
Indonesia I believe will continue to be the growth driver in Asia for many many many years.
Philippines we mentioned earlier.
I think Philippines has the potential to be a top 5 income market for the whole of PMI within the next 7 to 8 years.
And then there are all the other markets that you mentioned where we are seeing growth.
I mean what was phenomenal in Asia is that Marlboro gained share in every single market in Asia last year.
And in terms of share we gained share in every market with the exception of Pakistan.
There are territories such as Vietnam which I think will be a market for the future which we are doing well in and I hope we will continue to do well.
And then of course there's China Bonnie.
And I would hope within the time frame that you're talking about somehow we will have a presence in China which completely changes everything in terms of Asia because there would be a paradigm shift.
LLC Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
That's helpful.
And I just sort of want to confirm then some of the infrastructure build in some of those markets where you don't necessarily have a huge presence at this point you've invested you're ready.
We are ready.
And we have invested in terms of resources and we continue to do so and to ensure that we have the appropriate talent as well in all these markets.
Your next question comes from Chris Ferrara of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the marketing admin and research.
So on a total company level I guess it was up about 100 basis points.
And you've certainly been clear about the specific market investments you guys have made an infrastructure build in Russia.
But that 100 basis points on a total company basis is the largest we've seen since '09.
So I was just wondering if you can kind of put the magnitude of that increase in context.
Is it timing of a bunch of different things you're doing at once? Is it a reflection of your success so far and just the ability to spend back having a couple of little fires in the Marlboro brand around the portfolio I guess? But can you just put that increase in context? I think you sort of covered it all in your question.
It's a combination of everything you just said.
We have a number of programs in place.
And we have exciting programs that we're now implementing and we're putting money behind it across numerous markets.
I've sort of highlighted the key ones.
Germany is the first market we've used the new Marlboro campaign which we started in the fourth quarter.
And we're very hopeful that that will move the needle in terms of Marlboro in Germany.
And clearly that campaign will be expanded elsewhere and there's a lot of excitement generated by that campaign.
And we continue to build on the Marlboro architecture in the line extensions and I've mentioned a few examples in the European Union.
But if you take Asia some of the line extensions have been frankly quite spectacular.
Ice Blast in Japan has been a phenomenal success.
So there's a lot of excitement behind Marlboro and we're putting the money behind it.
But it's not just Marlboro it's Parliament it's L&amp;M and it's Chesterfield where a lot of work has been done in terms of brand portfolio the actual brands themselves the campaigns the consumer engagement activities.
It really is all coming together.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And I guess as a follow-up would you expect these levels of spending to be sustained? I guess is there any upfront nature of this spending? Or it's just something you'd expect to continue? And I guess what do you think of the timing of the payback of these investments understanding of course there are different natures of these? If you could just kind of try to pull it together I'd appreciate it.
We anticipate in 2012 that we will actually increase our marketing spend and investments.
And the beauty of our margins is that the returns are pretty rapid.
Your next question comes from Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to dig into India a little bit.
I know it's small and far longer-term opportunity but how has the response to Marlboro been since you sort of retriggered the business there? What's the consumer and retailer customer response been so far? You're right it's still small.
We're really only active in 3 cities today.
And the reaction both from the trade and the consumer in those 3 cities is actually excellent.
Marlboro continues to grow its volume every month and we're pretty excited about Marlboro's prospects.
And I think we would like to get a more solid footing in those 3 cities before we start expanding.
So it'll be a slow process.
We face a formidable competitor that clearly is not going to give us an easy ride.
We're fully aware of that.
And I must say that the progress I've seen in Marlboro in India and specifically in those 3 cities is very very promising.
Research Division</strong> Well that's great.
And then also just back to the Philippines.
I know you said that the pricing and cost savings were drivers.
What split was that? Was one more important than the other? And what kind of sustainability to the pricing do you see there? I wouldn't go into the actual drivers.
But yes we see pricing opportunities in the Philippines over the long-term as being quite significant.
Much will of course depend on what happens to excise taxes.
And there has been talk of a reform of excise taxes we'll see.
So far there have been debates in committees but nothing concrete as of yet.
And it seems to be that at least for the foreseeable future the current excise tax structure will remain in place.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly on Indonesia it looks like there's some excise tax increases there.
Do you see any problem covering those with pricing or more than covering them? What kind of pacing do you see that taking throughout the year? No I feel quite confident that over time we can handle the excise tax increases that were implemented in Indonesia.
As has been the case in the past they were not excessive increases and they're quite manageable.
And we believe that Indonesia will continue to rocket ahead in terms of both volume and income.
Your next question comes from Rogerio Fujimori of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a bit about illicit trade trends in some of your key markets? You flagged Spain on the negative side and Canada on the positive side in 2011.
So I'm just wondering if these trends -- you see these trends continuing.
Or are illicit trade levels stabilizing in those markets? Illicit trade continues to be a huge problem.
It has expanded quite significantly in a number of markets.
And yes you mentioned Spain.
But illicit trade is increasing not only in Spain but in Greece in Italy in Germany in Mexico quite dramatically and remains a big issue in numerous Asian markets.
So it's a plague.
And we're doing everything to fight it.
And hopefully we can have more success going forward.
It's a big problem but it's also potentially an opportunity because you would hope that at one point those volumes will return to legitimate trade.
And I think governments are more and more focused on ensuring that they don't open the door to further illicit trade by huge tax increases.
But it remains a big issue Rogerio.
And we've made progress.
I think if the world could adopt the industry's tracking and tracing system it would help considerably.
The advent of what are called illicit whites has become a huge issue and we need to tackle the source of those products.
Research Division</strong> And then just one quick question about Russia; the Russian consumer actually.
Is the price elasticity after the latest increase and also the pace of up trading playing out as you expected? Pretty well yes.
I mean the Russian market in total is down.
But in terms of the trends the segment trends they are showing signs of improvement.
So it's looking quite good.
And I think there is considerable consumer confidence in Russia.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from Ann Gurkin of Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you could help me with a little more detail in terms of your outlook for the EU market in 2012.
You touched a little bit on volume.
So what's your confidence in pricing and growing OCI? And what are inventory levels like? Nothing really to report on inventory levels.
We are hopeful that we can return to constant currency income growth in EU.
Last year it was down in part driven -- in large part driven by Spain.
I think Spain alone if I recall was close to 3 percentage points of growth or lack of growth in EU.
And our hope is that we can grow income in EU which wasn't the case last year Ann.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then in terms of any potential markets requiring the use of LIP do you anticipate any markets over the next several years converting to the required use of LIP? Well the whole EU is on it now which clearly is a cost hurdle this year or at least for 3 quarters.
Others have looked at it.
Nothing seems to be on the horizon yet.
But I would anticipate that over time most of the world would probably go in that direction Ann [indiscernible] although it doesn't make much sense.
Your next question comes from Chris Wickham of Oriel Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just going back on Rogerio's point I mean you do read increasingly that people are accusing the tobacco industry of using illicit trade as a tool really to get back at governments or to some extent to have it their way on taxes and on communication.
I mean do you feel that the approach to illicit trade has been mishandled? And can you think of ways in which it could be handled better? I think that clearly not enough has been done in terms of fighting illicit trade.
I think the reference you made is actually being made less and less because the fact is law enforcements authorities throughout the world recognize the role that the legitimate industry is having in fighting illicit trade.
The bulk of illicit trade today is counterfeit products and illicit whites by far the bulk of the illicit trade.
And I think industry government stakeholders as well as consumers need to combine forces to fight this plague.
It's been successful in a number of places Canada was mentioned earlier.
Romania was a good example where illicit trade has been forcefully addressed and has declined quite significantly.
It's still there double-digit but it's come down by some 40%.
So it can be done but it requires cooperation from everybody.
And regretfully there is so much money involved in illicit trade that at times it's difficult to get everybody's cooperation.
But we are very focused on that and in fact intend to invest more behind the fight against illicit trade.
Our final question is a follow-up from Erik Bloomquist of Berenberg Bank.
Research Division</strong> With respect to another market where there's meaningful illicit Brazil has a large tax increase coming in May also with a minimum retail price implementation.
What's the Philip Morris view on that? Is that increase going to be disruptive? And is PMI optimistic about improvements in the illicit versus legal volume mix in Brazil post the change in the law? You would hope that if the minimum price is actually adhered to that clearly would help.
Illicit trade in Brazil is not a new problem; it's been 30% of consumption for as long as I can remember.
And it's basically 2 sources one is Paraguay and the other is local manufacturers.
I think the Brazilian government has focused more and more on the local manufacturers with some success.
But it is an issue.
I think that as you know the new tax reform is over a 3-year period.
There will ultimately be one uniform tax rate applied to all cigarettes.
I think that is a good thing.
It may cause some short-term disruptions.
But in terms of the longer-term prospects for that market I think the government has made the wise and right move.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Rolli for any closing remarks.
Before I pass it onto Nick I did want to mention because you all know Nick very well that today is his 25th anniversary with Philip Morris International and obviously before its parent.
And I think it's quite fitting to thank him for the 25 years and that we would announce such spectacular results on his 25th anniversary.
I'll now pass it back to Nick.
Well thank you very much Louis.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate it.
Thank you all for joining us today.
If you have any follow-up questions you can contact the Investor Relations team we're here in New York.
And on February 23 we will be presenting Hermann will be presenting at the Consumer Analyst Group of New York Conference down in Boca Raton Florida.
So we hope to see you all there as well.
So thank you very much.
Have a great day.
Thank you everyone.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Philip Morris International First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is scheduled to last about 1 hour including remarks by Philip Morris International's management and the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Nick Rolli Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Welcome.
Thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we issued a press release containing detailed information on our 2012 first quarter results.
You may access the release on our website at www.pmi.com.
During our call today we'll be talking about results for the first quarter 2012 and comparing them with the same period in 2011 unless otherwise stated.
References to volumes are to PMI shipments.
Industry volume and market shares are the latest data available from a number of internal and external sources.
Organic volume refers to volume excluding acquisitions.
Net revenues exclude excise taxes.
Operating companies income or OCI is defined as operating income before general corporate expenses and the amortization of intangibles.
You'll find data tables showing adjustments to net revenues and OCI for currency acquisitions asset impairment exit and other costs free cash flow calculations and adjustments to earnings per share or EPS as well as reconciliations to U.S.
GAAP measures at the end of today's webcast slides which are posted on our website.
Today's remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results.
I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statements disclosure in today's presentation and press release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections or forward-looking statements.
It's now my pleasure to introduce Hermann Waldemer our Chief Financial Officer.
Hermann? Thank you Nick and good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
We once again achieved excellent results in the first quarter of this year.
Our organic cigarette volume increased by 5.3%.
Net revenues excluding currency and acquisitions were up by 10.9%.
Adjusted OCI also excluding currency and acquisition increased by 14.2%.
And our adjusted diluted EPS excluding currency rose by 19.8%.
Our strong business momentum continues and this should enable us to perform well during the remainder of 2012 notwithstanding the previously disclosed difficult comparisons versus 2011 that we will face in the second quarter relating to the exceptional circumstances in the Japanese market during the post-tsunami crisis.
Consequently we remain very confident in our ability to achieve the business results that we predicted when we issued our reported 2012 EPS guidance last February.
However since that time the U.S.
dollar has strengthened against a number of currencies.
As a result we are facing a slightly stronger currency headwind and are now forecasting an impact of $0.15 in unfavorable currency this year based on prevailing exchange rates compared to the $0.10 previously disclosed in February.
As a result for exchange rate reasons only we are revising our reported diluted EPS guidance for 2012 by $0.05 to a range of $5.20 to $5.30.
It should be stressed that compared to our 2011 adjusted diluted EPS of $4.88 we are maintaining our forecast growth in the reported diluted EPS for 2012 of approximately 10% to 12% on a currency-neutral basis.
Our forecast growth is fully in line with our long-term growth target for adjusted diluted EPS excluding currency.
One of the key elements favorably impacting our business is the reasonable excise tax environment.
While there have been increases most recently in Spain we have not seen any disruptively large changes in any key markets this year.
On the structural side we continue to witness further improvements via a gradual increase in the specific proportion of excise taxes.
Many governments now recognize that higher specific elements reinforce the predictability of government tobacco excise tax revenues.
Pricing continues to be the most important single driver of our profitability.
The pricing variance was $369 million in the quarter.
The increased prices notably in Argentina Germany Indonesia Italy Korea Mexico the Philippines and Russia and continued to benefit from the annualization of higher prices from last year.
We also generated a positive volume mix variance of $224 million at the OCI level as we grew volume and benefited from consumer up-trading in a wide range of non-OECD markets.
The 5.3% quarterly organic cigarette volume growth is our best performance since the March 2008 spin.
While boosted by the leap year and an undemanding comparison to the prior year the improvement was notable for its wide geographic spread.
The Asia region led the way with a 12.4% increase.
The growth in the EEMA and Latin America and Canada regions was around 3%.
And the moderate decline in the EU region of 1.5% was the best performance in many years.
In fact volume increased in the first quarter in 13 of our top 15 largest markets by volume.
This performance reflects the breadth of our superior brand portfolio.
In the first quarter every one of our top 10 brands by volume grew.
The small growth notably adding 3.6 billion units compared to the first quarter of 2011.
We are thus able to continue our strong market share growth momentum.
Our market share in our top 30 OCI markets was estimated at 37.3% in the first quarter of 2012 compared to 36.6% for the full year 2011 and 35.5% in 2010.
Asia is our principal growth engine.
The region as a whole is benefiting from a solid economic environment a growing adult population in many markets and increasing consumer purchasing power.
Our organic cigarette volume grew by 12.4% led by Indonesia.
Excluding currency and acquisitions net revenues and adjusted OCI increased by 16.3% and 23.7% respectively.
Total industry volume in Indonesia grew at a double-digit pace in the first quarter.
On a full year basis we forecast an increase in the range of 6% to 8%.
Meanwhile our shipment volume grew by 24.9% in the quarter making Indonesia the single largest market for PMI by shipment size.
Our market share was 3.5% higher at 33.4%.
This tremendous result was achieved through the excellent momentum behind our leading machine-made premium lower tar nicotine brand Sampoerna A and the strength of our overall portfolio which also includes premium Marlboro mid-price U Mild and low-price brands.
Our premium portfolio added over 3 billion units and accounted for over 60% of our market share gain in the quarter.
The underlying trend in Japanese industry volume has continued to improve.
We are forecasting a moderate underlying market decline of approximately 2% in 2012 as smoking incidence has remained stable since the middle of last year.
Our first quarter market share was 28% well above the previous year at 25.6% and just slightly below the fourth quarter 2011 level.
Our share was impacted by trade purchases of new JT products in March when it dropped to 27.3%.
So far we have had just one new launch this year Lark Hybrid 100 millimeter which achieved a satisfactory 4.4% market share in March.
Both Marlboro and Lark remain strong and we have a full pipeline of new consumer innovative variants that we plan to launch in the coming months.
In Korea we implemented in mid-February a price increase of KRW 200 per pack to KRW 2 700 on Marlboro Parliament and Lark which accounted for over 80% of our volume in 2011 while making some necessary practical price adjustments to Virginia Slims.
The preliminary indications are that as expected we have given back a large part of the share gains from the previous temporary price advantage in return for a significant margin improvement.
Our endeavors to secure a reasonable long-term reform of excise taxation has been delayed by the parliamentary elections that took place early this month but we will renew our efforts now that they are over.
Our results in the EEMA region were very strong in the quarter.
Organic cigarette volume grew by 3.4% driven in particular by Algeria Saudi Arabia and Turkey and only partly offset by a reduction in sales in Egypt due to a surge in illicit trade.
Our mix was favorable as adult smokers traded up to premium and mid-price brands.
We increased prices in the quarter most notably in Russia.
And pricing was also a key driver of our higher profitability.
Excluding currency and acquisitions net revenues and adjusted OCI were 12.6% and 18% higher respectively while we continued increase our investments behind Marlboro and other key brands.
The strength of the economy has enabled the Turkish market to rapidly absorb the impact of the tax-driven price increases that occurred in the fourth quarter of last year.
Our volume increased by nearly 10% in the first quarter of this year as our portfolio continued to perform strongly.
And our year-to-date February Nielsen share grew by 0.7 point to 44.6%.
Our mix has also improved behind premium Parliament and mid-price Muratti.
In Russia recent price increases have not prevented adult smokers' appetite for up-trading.
Our above-premium brand Parliament continues to perform very strongly and gained a further 0.3 point to reach a record 3.2% Nielsen share year-to-date February.
Along with the strong performance of low-price Bond Street and Next Slims this has enabled us to grow our overall Nielsen share through the end of February from 25.5% last year to 26.2%.
We remain optimistic that we can further strengthen our position in Russia as the preliminary results of our new marketing programs and additional investments behind the Marlboro and other key brands are showing early signs of promise.
In the EU region total industry volume was down a modest 1.3% despite weak economic conditions notably in Greece and Spain.
Both L&amp;M and Chesterfield continue to gain share in the region.
Their market shares were up 0.3 and 0.4 point respectively to a combined 9.8%.
L&amp;M is growing in particular in Germany Poland and Slovakia while Chesterfield is performing particularly well in Austria Portugal and Spain.
Marlboro's performance remains resilient though its market share was down in the region as a whole by 0.3 point to 17.5%.
Marlboro gained share notably in Belgium the Czech Republic Greece Hungary and Portugal while its share loss in Germany was attributable to a temporary price disadvantage.
Higher prices notably in France Germany Italy Poland Spain and the U.K.
enabled us to return to solid profit growth in the region.
Net revenues and adjusted OCI were 5.3% and 3.7% higher respectively excluding currency.
During the quarter we continued to invest behind the new Marlboro campaign and consumer element innovative line extensions such as Marlboro Beyond.
Unemployment continues to increase in Spain with no short-term expectation for any improvement.
This is putting further pressure on the total market volume for cigarettes.
During the first quarter PMI's market share declined slightly to 30.2% despite an improved performance for Chesterfield.
As part of their measures to reduce the budget deficit the Spanish government recently increased excise taxes on cigarettes along with a restructuring that increased the relative importance of the specific element.
In response we raised our prices by EUR 0.25 per pack across our portfolio despite the government's failure to increase the minimum excise tax.
In Italy cigarette industry volume declined by 6.1% in the first quarter partly offset by strong growth in the fine cut market which remains relatively small at around 6% of total tobacco consumption.
The key drivers of this decline are higher prices that have boosted industry margins and government revenues and more difficult economic conditions.
While unemployment still remains below 10% in Italy consumer purchasing power is under pressure.
There has therefore been some customer down-trading from premium and mid-price cigarettes to low-price international cigarette brands and fine cut.
This led to an erosion of 0.9 point in our cigarette market share to 52.6% in the first quarter.
To address these trends we launched Chesterfield fine cut in the second quarter of 2011.
This move has reinforced the brand as it has steadily increased its share of the total tobacco market and enabled us to achieve market leadership in fine cut in the first quarter of this year with a 28.3% share.
Our latest initiative was the launch during the first quarter of this year of Philip Morris Selection in the growing international low-price cigarette category where we are underrepresented.
Along with the higher prices these strategies should enable us to maintain our profitability in this important market going forward.
The economies in the northern part of Europe show more favorable trends as illustrated by Germany.
Cigarette industry volume was up 3.1% in the first quarter as the economy remained robust and contraband was reduced.
The German authority recently closed down 2 important smuggling rings whose annual supply was estimated at some 400 million cigarettes.
Marlboro was the first key brand to be sold in Germany at higher prices following the January tax increase and thus suffered a market share decline in the first quarter of 0.8 point to 20.4%.
Nearly all competitive brands are now selling at new prices so we expect an improved Marlboro performance going forward.
Our optimism is backed by the promising results from the initial phases of the new Marlboro "Don't Be A Maybe" campaign.
Marlboro's share amongst young adult smokers minimum 18 to 24 years old increased by 5 points in the first quarter to become the leading brand in this adult age group along with L&amp;M with a 20% smokers share for each of the 2 brands.
PMI achieved an overall increase of 0.2 point in its cigarette market share in the first quarter at 35.9%.
This was driven by the continued strong performance of L&amp;M.
The brand grew a further 1.2 share points in the quarter to 11.2%.
As this remains well below its young adult smokers share we expect to be able to continue to expand L&amp;M share in the German market going forward.
We also successfully increased our quarterly share in the fine cut market with a gain of 0.9 point to 15.8%.
This was driven by our 2 key cigarette brands Marlboro and L&amp;M.
The Latin America and Canada region was a solid contributor again in the quarter.
Organic cigarette volume grew by 2.9% thanks to share and market growth in Argentina and favorable timing and trade inventory movements in Mexico.
We increased our share in Colombia and Mexico where Marlboro continued to perform well with gains of 1.5 and 4 points respectively.
Excluding currency adjusted OCI increased by 4%.
On a global basis the illicit trade in cigarettes is estimated at some 600 billion units.
While at times a risk it also offers PMI a very significant volume and profitability opportunity.
The potential benefits of cooperation underpin our joint efforts with many authorities across the world.
Canada Germany and Romania are recent examples of successful reductions in contraband.
In this context we welcome measures being proposed by the provincial government in Ontario to reinforce its laws against illicit trade.
Based on similar measures the Québec government has stated that it increased its provincial tobacco tax revenues by more than $200 million over the last 2 years.
Free cash flow was $1.7 billion in the first quarter a decline of 23% excluding currency.
Net earnings increased by $245 million or 12.3% confirming that the business fundamentals are in excellent shape.
This was however more than offset by $742 million increase in our working capital and other requirements due mainly to the timing of receivables in the quarter and industry forestalling in the EU region a phenomenon that should be fully reversed as the year unfolds.
Let me remind you that forestalling occurs when manufacturers build up inventory in excess of normal supply chain requirement ahead of an excise tax increase.
This competitive phenomenon becomes an issue whenever the payment of the excise taxes occurs prior to the depletion of the finished goods inventory.
We are therefore working with governments to introduce and when necessary reinforce anti-forestalling measures.
This would reduce our working capital requirements and provide governments with higher tax revenues without undue delay.
In addition capital expenditures are higher this year.
We are investing in productivity-enhancing factory modernization equipment for innovative new products the consolidation of our operations in the Philippines the expansion of our capacity in Indonesia and other projects.
At the same time we are on track to deliver on our $300 million pretax productivity target in 2012.
During the first quarter we spent $1.5 billion to repurchase 18.1 million shares at an average price of $83.07.
Our target remains to spend $6 billion on share repurchases this year.
Since the spin through the end of March this year we repurchased a total of 432.1 million shares at an average price of $52.88.
Our annualized dividend of $3.08 per share generated an attractive yield of 3.5% at the market close last Friday.
Since 2008 we have increased our dividend rate by 67.4% under our policy that targets a 65% dividend payout ratio.
We continue to generate superior shareholder returns compared to our tobacco peers our wider consumer product peers group and the broader market.
In conclusion the first quarter of 2012 has been another excellent one for PMI.
Organic volume was very strong and we benefited from consumer up-trading in non-OECD markets.
All our key brands are performing well led by Marlboro and Parliament.
We are fully on track to deliver again in 2012 against our currency-neutral long-term target of 10% to 12% adjusted diluted EPS growth.
In the first quarter we once more outperformed our tobacco and broader consumer product peers in terms of shareholder returns.
We remain very confident about our outlook for the remainder of the year and beyond notwithstanding the difficult comparison we will face in the second quarter due to Japan.
Thank you for your continued interest in our company and its excellent growth prospects.
I'm now happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just in terms of your guidance for the full year notwithstanding the currency guidance change but just underlying x currency guidance just because you had a pretty strong first quarter it kind of implies that the rest of the year would show some slowdown in terms of the year-over-year.
So other than the comparison issue how are you thinking about the balance of the year? Are there anything just at the margin whether at the macro level or competitive level that's giving you some caution here? Or is it just really too early in the year and you just want to see how the year unfolds? I think the most important point is really your last point.
We are early in the year.
Yes we are facing a difficult comp in Q2.
But the underlying business as I said also in the prepared remarks is in very good shape.
We're very happy.
There is no -- really no change in the business prospects that we had expected when we gave our initial guidance on the business side in February.
It's just early in the year.
There is always upside in life.
There is also risks in business.
That's why our guidance also is a guidance that spans $0.10.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly in Japan so it sounds like in March the shipment share ticked down a little bit.
Do you have the consumer offtake share for March? I'm just trying to understand how effective some of these competitive activities and the load then is translating at the consumer level.
Yes I think -- I mean if you look at really the shipment shares in January at 28.3 February at 28.5 and then March 27.3 it is pretty obvious that it's influenced by competitive trade load.
The fact simply is that we only have had so far one launch this year the Lark Hybrid One 100s.
In the same period JT had 3 launches.
Our pipeline is also there.
This is going to come in the next months.
So I think we are in a very good position.
The market dynamics are back to normal.
Again the novelty impact is always there in Japan.
You were asking for offtake shares.
They are very very slightly below 30%.
So that's a very very small decline to what we had seen the 2 months before.
Also that one I would say is driven by the novelty and the trial of new products that have come to the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally in Europe you called out the volume performance obviously down 1.5%.
You had somewhat of an easy comp but just in terms of the decline being more modest in that market if you can just maybe more recently some of the increased -- again renewed concerns about the macros and the consumer sentiment there how do you think about your ability to continue to see improvement in Western Europe? Well I think there are -- Europe is of course a mixed picture as we all know.
And if you just take the 2 extremes if you like on the growth and on the more difficult side the German cigarette market has been growing 3.1% in the first quarter versus previous year.
Whereas in Spain while there was some growth but there is really just due to very very undemanding comps in the first quarter of last year that really the retailers have brought down their inventories quite a bit.
The Spanish economy continues to be very difficult.
Unemployment continues to increase.
So I again would expect the Spanish market for the full year still to be down at least 10% again.
So let's not be misled by the first quarter.
There is quite a mixed picture but if we really kind of step back for a moment and look at really what has happened more on a macro basis in terms of volume trends then I would say yes the so-called more mature markets the decline rates have really moderated if you compare that to say 3 years ago.
At the same time in a number of emerging markets the growth rates actually have accelerated compared to 3 years ago.
And that of course taken together combined with our great portfolio and our momentum also in terms of market share provides us with potential opportunities for further volume growth and for good performance that's more from a macro picture.
Your next question comes from David Adelman of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I know you normally don't talk about specifics about discrete quarters Hermann but given the unusual dynamics you faced in Q2 both with Japan and currency is it realistic to expect EPS to be down in the second quarter? That's certainly my forecast at this point.
Well David we have never made really or given quarterly guidance.
I won't do it now as well either.
I mean the 2 points really to keep in mind here are that the hurdle due to Japan is about $0.10 EPS cents.
So the calculation there really is the market in Q2 in Japan was about 45 billion cigarettes our market share was 42 our retention share is about 28.
That makes a difference of 14.
Multiplied on the market size is a volume hurdle of about 6.3.
You take the margin you take the cost you deduct the tax you divide by the number of shares and that brings you to about the $0.10.
So that I can confirm or reconfirm.
We have said that before.
And other than that I would really revert you back to the full year guidance because that's what really counts and our continued conviction that business fundamentals are doing well.
We are doing extremely well.
Things are good.
Things are in order and they keep on going as we had expected from the very beginning of this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then 2 other things Hermann.
I think in your prepared remarks you indicated an expectation for Japanese cigarette consumption to be down about 2%.
Did I hear that correctly for the year? That is correct yes.
Research Division</strong> Why do you think it's getting better? Because even prior to the excise tax increase that market's rate of decline was substantially higher and arguably getting worse going from 3% 4% 5% to 6%.
That's correct.
And as I said in the question before also I mean it's not only Japan -- that trend of moderating decline rates in the so-called mature markets is a Japanese sentiment it's also a European sentiment.
It's really hard to pinpoint that down to what it is.
The fact really is in Japan now completely back to Japan that actually the smoking rate has been stable.
Smoking incidence has been stable since at least middle of last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly Hermann with this continued growth in volumes in Indonesia are there any issues on your capacity or the availability of cloves? We are increasing capacity.
That's part of the reason why CapEx is going up.
Of course we are adjusting our capacity to the needs there.
On cloves that's a cyclical harvest actually.
Typically you have a strong harvest in one year.
You have a weaker harvest in the other year.
2011 was a weak year in terms of overall clove harvest.
The indications for this year are good.
It should be a strong harvest.
And of course that would lead to replenishment of the clove stocks that we would then of course perform.
Your next question comes from Bonnie Herzog on Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to start with a question on pricing.
You mentioned you're clearly benefiting from price realization.
So how realistic is it for this continue at these levels? And do you attribute this to your innovation effort price management or more due to the health of the consumer? And then I'd just like to understand how aggressive you've been with your managing your GAAP? Well I would say managing price gaps has a lot to do with managing price structures and price -- tax structures excuse me not price structures tax structures.
And we have seen improvement in tax structures in many many places.
I give you a couple of recent examples.
France increased the specific component at the end of last year.
Spain just right now the excise tax increase there had at the same time are rebalancing from -- at the lower end to specific tax.
They missed out on the minimum tax in Spain.
Let's hope that it's going to be corrected going forward.
Only at the beginning of this week actually in a press conference of the Deputy Prime Minister in Turkey and the Finance Minister in Turkey they also announced that they will look at the structure of excise tax there without increasing overall tax burden and that will implement a specific element into the overall structure.
Details timing all that remains to be seen.
But that's again an important step forward.
Again also this week a public announcement of President Putin in Russia that yes there will be regular excise tax increases in Russia but there shouldn't be any excessive excise tax increases there either.
So a lot of improvement.
Brazil earlier where they began to do away with those many tax tiers that clearly were a disadvantage for Marlboro.
So there is improvement in a lot of places and that helps.
And then as well helps you and as a consequence helps us to put in the correct and the right price gaps.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then Hermann on volume your volume growth was strong and then balanced across your region.
And then drilling down into Asia there is -- it sounds like a lot of the robust industry volume growth.
I'd like to understand what's driving this growth other than is it the growing population GDP growth? Is it the consumer behavior increased smoking incidence? I just kind of want to hear a little bit from you more color on this.
And then understanding the underlying dynamics and then how sustainable this industry volume growth in Asia will be over the next 5 years? Yes I mean if the origin is of course what you said it is the overall economies.
And many of those economies take Indonesia as an example have really excellent macroeconomic indicators.
So Indonesia GDP growth is forecast at 6.5%.
Consumer confidence is really high inflation expectations of 5% i.e.
there is -- there are real wage increases there so improved affordability.
A growing adult population is of course another factor that plays in there.
And when it all comes together and you have the right brands to compete in such a market this is how you generate your volume growth your market share growth overall.
I mean Indonesia to stay with that example has been growing a bit more than 12% in the first quarter.
I don't expect that to happen for the full year but I still expect a strong growth of about 6% to 8%.
That factors in that in that market eventually the existing subsidies for fuel prices will be reduced.
That's going to take out a little bit of the purchasing power.
That's the reason why I would expect the 6% to 8%.
But a 6% to 8% is of course again very strong growth.
And in the Indonesian market just to compare it will now be well above 300 billion i.e.
at the size of the U.S.
market or even slightly bigger.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then just a final question on your forecast for volume for the year given the strength I think you had talked about flattish growth for 2012 in terms of volume.
Is it realistic to assume that you're going to see faster maybe low single digit volume growth this year? I would say including the Japanese hurdle I would continue to expect stable volume eventually slight growth.
If you would exclude the Japan hurdle the 6.3 billion that I was quoting earlier then we definitely expect strong organic growth.
That wouldn't be that far away actually from the 1% target.
Your next question comes from Chris Growe of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question for you if I could follow up on Bonnie's question right there about volume I wonder again given the strength that you're seeing in your business but broadly across the world and improving economies Indonesia [ph] how do you see the overall tobacco market from a volume standpoint growing this year? Is it also down a little bit still this year? Or you've seen a better performance there overall? The closing number is hard to predict but I would say there are really many places in the world where relatively speaking if you take the last 3 years' horizon that our situation is actually improving.
So what I mentioned earlier really on more moderate decline in the mature markets and stronger growth in the emerging markets there I can see it.
At the same time there are a number of markets where the potential or the actual up-trading has come back that would be Russia.
Russia is not going to be a growing market.
I would expect again say about 2% decline this year just like the 2 years before.
But here you have the up-trading element in there.
So the combination of all those factors provides the basis for a continued growing and successful business for us.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I want to ask you about 2 markets the first one being Japan just a quick question there.
Do you expect that -- I think this comment was made on last quarter's call that your constant currency profit would grow in Japan this year.
Would that be a reasonable assumption? Well this is certainly what we are targeting and this should be about in that range yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I just wanted to confirm that.
And then just the second question as it relates to Russia you obviously had a good performance in Parliament a little softer market share performance for Marlboro and a lot of your growth came in the lower end with Bond Street and Next.
Is that -- are you still -- are you seeing a trade-down effect? Obviously you had one premium brand doing well and one -- and some lower-end brands doing well.
But I just want to get a better sense of that market and then kind of how the consumers fare in there.
And there is a trade-down factor in Russia is what I'm getting at there.
Well the really declining volume -- segment is the low-price filter and non-filter segment.
So there is up-trading in the market overall.
Then don't forget that there was another price increase in the market.
So if you like people had to up-trade in any case because prices were going up.
Then if you look through the portfolio actually Parliament our above-premium brand is growing tremendously a record market share of 3.2%.
That's really excellent.
Yes Marlboro in the quarter is still down 0.2% to a 2% share.
Marlboro is on a low basis in Russia as we all know.
Well that you also have to see in the context that we actually increased the price for Marlboro by RUB 5 to RUB 60 a price positioning measure we took there which is just part of our overall efforts in that market.
marketing sales price positioning product.
Everything goes together how we want to bring back Marlboro in the growth track in the market.
So don't pay too much importance to the 0.2% in the month.
We are working on the equity of Marlboro and that obviously doesn't show from one quarter to the next.
That's a longer-term investment which we are willing to go.
Your next question comes from Rogerio Fujimori of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick question about trading inventory movements.
So you refer to a few movements in -- unfavorable in Russia favorable in Ukraine.
So I was just wondering if there's anything else we should bear in mind when we think about Q2.
Well in terms of trade inventory movements or in if you like what I called undemanding comparisons in the first quarter that would of course be Japan.
That would be Mexico at the other end of the world.
But otherwise nothing in that sense unusual.
There will always be trade inventory movements from one quarter to the next.
That's pretty obvious but nothing spectacular that I could see there.
Your next question comes from Jon Leinster of UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First of all I think on the EU side you mentioned quite rapid declines in Portugal and Greece in volume terms.
Is that something you can quantify? Are those seriously declining markets or not that important? Well for the individual market Greece is of course -- the decline and the deterioration that we have seen in that market it is important.
If you apply then on the PMI scale in terms of comparisons then of course quarter-on-quarter there last year to this year Greece is not important.
I mean it's simply the situation in a Greece or in a Spain in our market reflects the very serious underlying problems of those 2 economies.
Research Division</strong> So I mean in rough terms in terms of Portugal and Greece what have they knocked off in terms of volumes? The total market size is -- in Greece in the first quarter now you test my memory.
It must be not too much.
So Greece about 1.2 billion.
It's in the range of 20% to 25% down in Greece.
I mean it really reflects what you see in the economy there which is why I cautioned earlier on Spain if you just look at the market this quarter that would be misleading.
It's just comparing to a first quarter of 2011 where retail -- where tobacco leaves have really bought down their inventories dramatically and where you had the first quarter where the full-fledged public smoking ban also came into effect.
So Q1 Spain this year compares to a very weak Q1 Spain last year which is why I said I expect another at least 10% decline in Spain for the full year.
And the 10% decline expectation is probably realistic for Portugal as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Secondly on the -- I mean clearly the volume growth in Indonesia is well almost unprecedented.
But I mean is there no comeback from the government in terms of rapid tax increases? Is there no sort of health -- sort of debate in Indonesia as to whether or not taxes should rise significant to offset the volumes? Well excise taxes have gone up also in Indonesia in the range of 7% to 8% which compares to an inflation expectation of 5%.
It's not that there are no excise increases in this part of the world.
There are.
It's just the overall economy.
The environment is simply a growth environment a strong growth environment.
And it's kind of at the other extreme of the scale.
When we were just talking Spain -- well when we talk Indonesia we talk about everything on the other side there.
Research Division</strong> Lastly in Korea obviously you put the prices up in February and the impact seems to be a 5% drop in market shares.
Are you surprised by the speed of reaction of the consumer in Korea and the sort of your loss of the market share quite so quickly? And do you know if that's gone to other premium brands? Or has that caused the market to trade down? Have they switched to cheap brands? No.
Essentially I mean the beneficiary in terms of share was of course the company that has not raised the prices.
The only company that has not raised prices KT&amp;G.
That was combined by a fairly bizarre consumer campaign on their side highlighting the difference between the foreigners and the Koreans and that was the impact.
But that stuff at the end of the day is an impact.
At the moment we are back now to a more normal situation going forward.
And the underlying trend that the Korean consumer prefers international products over Korean products that has not changed because of those events.
Research Division</strong> Right so I say so the market's basically just traded down on the back of that? It really is.
Your next question comes from Jon Fell of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First of all on Latin America slightly subdued underlying EBIT growth of 4% considering revenues were up 5%.
I'm just wondering if you could talk us through that a bit.
I think the statement referred to organization -- or reorganization in Venezuela and Colombia is that a short-term thing? Or is that going to have an impact later in the year? And then secondly could you just update us on where we are with the various challenges to plain packaging in Australia in particular? I'm wondering when we might get a result from the hearing that's just closed.
So Latin America first.
Well yes we have -- we are in the process of closing the costly plant that we have in Venezuela.
That's correct.
Then some organizational adjustments and stuff that we had also in Columbia -- salary impact there.
And we are in the process of discussing our plans in Mexico with the employees' representatives.
So that's really what's going on there.
On the cost side this is ongoing management of our business.
This is nothing an underlying cost increase that will be there now or forever.
Moving over to the plain packaging situation yes the hearings in Australia in front of the High Court have been finalized to date.
The court has reserved the matter for judgment.
So I would expect a decision from the High Court in Australia in the first quarter.
But as you rightly say this is not the only legal avenue.
There are 3 legal avenues and 3 proceedings out there the second one being the claim that Philip Morris has under that bilateral investment treaty between Hong Kong and Australia.
There the situation is that the first 2 judges on that panel have been selected i.e.
the judge that we select and the one that the government selects.
Now those 2 judges are in the process to select the third arbitrator and judge for the panel.
We expect that to happen sometime now in April or in May.
So I would expect the first procedural hearings in that case in June.
But as we always said don't expect rapid judgment.
This is a process that's going to take from there at least another 2 years.
The third avenue is a legal proceeding between governments i.e.
the proceedings under WTO.
So the first 2 countries that have started proceedings under those rules are Honduras and the Ukraine.
I would -- we would expect actually more countries later in the process to join that effort.
Again however a process that is not going to last just a couple of months.
These are longer processes but promising legal avenues.
Your next question comes from Chris Ferrara of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess Hermann it looks like in this quarter I guess the mix impact to revenue was negative not to margin but to revenue was negative for the first time in a little while.
And you're talking a lot about trade up.
I guess can you talk about what would have driven that mix impact to the top line just so I could understand it more clearly? And I guess the difference between to the top line impact versus the margin impact because obviously one is a profitability thing and one is a price per pack thing.
But can you just talk about the interplay between those 2? Well there must be a misunderstanding quite frankly.
Because in the quarter our pricing variance is $369 million and the volume mix impact is a positive $224 million actually adding up to $593 million almost $600 million i.e.
an increase of more than $300 million versus first quarter of 2011.
Research Division</strong> Right and I guess that's the volume mix? I guess I'm just talking about the overall -- the mix impact the revenue mix impact.
I guess I'll take that one offline.
It might be my misunderstanding.
And then I guess another one on the rate of profitability increase in Asia the margins they jumped pretty nicely in a quarter where average pricing has been going up in that market.
This quarter wasn't a particularly large increase in pricing in Asia relative to others.
Could you just give a little more clarity on why the margins jumped so nicely in Asia this quarter? Well this is -- of course this is a number of markets.
This is many markets.
This is Indonesia we talked about before.
This is Korea.
These are price changes in many markets.
It's just I mean on a quarter-to-quarter sometimes they can be just timing which quarter comes first.
But there is nothing really unusual.
We don't -- we take the pricing as we deem appropriate but no there's no specific trend out there that I could see.
Your next question comes from Erik Bloomquist of Berenberg Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just one question on Turkey.
It looks like the markets were -- you reported quite robust in the overall market up 3%.
I wonder if we can expect those to continue to recover.
And particularly given what you're suggesting with tax structure reform does that bode well not only for the market but then I would think particularly for Philip Morris? I would say it bodes well also for the Turkish government.
Such change is clearly in the interest of the government.
Overall I mean Turkey as a country has a good economic outlook.
Turkey has shown us often in the past that yes it's volatile it's often steeper on the way down but it's also definitely steeper on the way up.
I think that's what we'll see again.
We'll see a situation there of a GDP growth expectation of 4%.
So things are going pretty well.
And coming -- when it comes to us well we have a superb portfolio.
This is Parliament.
This is Marlboro.
This is Muratti.
This is Lark.
This is L&amp;M.
This is Bond Street.
We cover the entire range.
And that's really I would say the secret behind our success in that market that we welcome a change in the excise structure.
Of course we do and as you know we have been working with the government on that.
And now as I said earlier so the government has declared their intention to provide changes whilst the nature and the extent of the change the timing of the changes is still open.
Take it altogether certainly positive dynamics for the Turkish market.
Your next question comes from Ann Gurkin of Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to return to the discussion about pricing and pricing you realized in the first quarter and what we know about potential excise taxes in different markets.
Is there any change to expected contribution from pricing for the year in your numbers? No.
I mean our plans for the year have remained the same.
Obviously I will not divulge what our plans are going forward.
But look back to the last 3 years 4 years and you can see that pricing has been a constant factor and has been an important factor in our growth over those years and continues to be and honestly always will continue to be.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then if I could also ask you about the U.K.'s review of standardized packaging any comments you can make on that? Yes well the U.K.
has actually announced at the beginning of this week that they'll start a consultation period lasting 12 weeks.
As you know they have done the very same thing 2.5 years ago.
The government has clearly stated that they want to listen to the public views that they want to consider the legal implication that they want to consider potential cost to retailer and the impact on demand for smuggled and counterfeit cigarettes.
We will participate of course in that consultation.
We will show that there is no credible evidence that plain packaging will reduce smoking rates and that on the contrary that plain packaging has serious adverse consequences including an increase in black market for counterfeit and smuggled cigarettes.
And those markets are run by criminals.
So on the basis of the same facts then 2.5 3 years ago I would hope and expect that the government comes to the same conclusion.
Your next question comes from Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the Marlboro brand and specifically how you think about it globally versus in any one given country.
It's certainly got some struggles in Russia.
How critical is it to turn it around there? And if your portfolio is growing in total does Marlboro need to be a bigger piece of that for you to consider that a successful market for you? Well Marlboro is tremendously successful in many many places around the world and it has been growing also in this quarter it's volume quite a bit.
That being said well the world is never really perfect and we are always open as well about disclosing that we are not happy with the situation of Marlboro.
Russia would be the one place.
We are just too competitive and ambitious people to accept that Marlboro will stay on a 2% share in the big Russian market.
Marlboro can do more and this is why we put the resources behind the creativity behind.
This is about marketing.
This is about sales.
This is about retail.
This is about products also and product innovation for the Russian market.
So we are investing because we want to improve the situation.
Another markets where the situation on Marlboro has been difficult over the years is the German market where Marlboro essentially today is the only premium brand left because everybody else has repositioned to the low end of the market.
However that being said low in Germany means $0.50 $0.60 below the premium pricing.
This is therefore not a price problem.
It's an equity problem.
And here again in Marlboro -- for Marlboro in Germany we have there worked on the campaign the new "Be Marlboro Don't Be A Maybe" campaign which is showing strong signs of really -- of success there and is improving quite a bit the smoker share amongst the 18- to 24-year-old.
Innovation that we have brought to the brand has helped enormously.
They actually stand in Q1 for 10% of the total volume of Marlboro.
So you see we are tackling it from all ends but it is important to remember that whilst there are places here and there that our performance can be improved and we are working to improve it if you put it on a global scale then Marlboro is doing very very well.
And it's doing extremely well in the most important Asian markets.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just going back to one comment you made on Korea.
Obviously there's a consumer sort of transition period to get used to the new prices but you had said something about how it seems like it's already back to normal.
Have you already seen some share come back? Or did you just mean that the competitive dynamics have sort of reset wherein that can continue from here? No.
I think the share losses have occurred come back not yet.
I was just saying that at the end of the day the competition in Korea will be amongst brands and we certainly have the stronger brands in this market compared to a local competitor there.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then lastly just on tax it looks like the rate was a little bit higher this quarter than it's been running.
Is that something that will wiggle back down a little bit? Or do you think this year's rate may just be higher in general? What kind of outlook should we expect there? The quarterly rate is our projection for the full year.
Your next question comes from Thilo Wrede of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I only have one quick question for you.
I noticed that in your -- in the press release on the country by country discussion you started breaking out the Philip Morris brand in many more countries.
Is that a brand that is getting more attention from you? What's behind that? No I mean Philip Morris as a brand has always been one of our core international brands.
It is just if you like the brand that we have selected to address the -- our underrepresentation in the low-price international segment in Italy.
So I mean it has always been a very strong brand for example in Argentina.
It has always been a strong and growing brand over the last 10 years I would already say in France.
No it's just one of our top brands but there is nothing.
There is no underlying change in the way we look at it.
Your next question comes from Thomas Russo of Gardner Russo and Gardner.
You mentioned that -- I have 2 quick questions.
You mentioned that Egypt stumbled based on an increase in illicit trade.
I'm curious about the sort of magnitude of that and where it's coming from.
You've done such a good job stamping it out in other parts of the world.
Where is it coming into in Egypt then? And secondly can you update us on your sense of your capacity to reinvest? You mentioned that you're directing more money towards Indonesia and the Philippines.
I'm wondering about other markets and also the new product work that you're doing.
What does the uptick in prospects for regions and new products suggest that you'll be able to deploy in capital going forward versus what you once thought? Okay.
I mean Egypt has just a really -- a recent surge in illicit trade.
There wasn't too much in the market before.
The estimate but there's a pure estimate.
Now I said it probably has already reached about 20% of consumers [ph] in Egypt growing.
It is actually eating primarily into the international brands not really in Cleopatra which is the low-price Egyptian brand.
Well quite frankly that's a question of enforcement and capability to enforce their -- this is a difficult situation these days in Egypt.
Then in terms of capacity to invest is there your question really on the CapEx side? Yes absolutely.
Yes.
Of the CapEx side okay.
Putting out long-term capital behind the rising prospects of geographies for you and also the possible prospects for new product launches and the acceptance thereof? I mean in terms of really -- of CapEx we have not changed really our multi-year average that CapEx should be in the 1:1 ratio in relation to depreciation and amortization.
From 1 year to the next there can be above and then a little bit below.
The average will be there.
I mean in terms of big categories where we invest that would be super high-speed machinery.
There is machinery today that can produce 20 000 cigarettes a minute.
Then of course in the important Indonesian market that would be the capacity increase that we have there.
Then we are in the process of finalizing the greenfield factory in Korea.
We are investing in Korea.
So the secondary is up and running.
Primarily will be running in July August of this year.
In the Philippines we do the factory upgrades following the business combination there.
So it's ongoing.
In terms of other investment for innovative products as you know very well the margin dynamics of this industry if you really have a seller the investment on CapEx is amortized pretty quickly.
Yes.
Last thing Hermann can you share with us in this low-rate environment what have been your best terms? Or is it common about an extraordinary low rate pay for some meaningful amount of borrowings? What is the high watermark issuance at the moment? I mean yes you're right I mean in March we actually issued $1.25 billion of bonds $550 million with a 5-year tenure at 1.625%.
And we actually issued also a 30-year bond for $700 million at 4.5%.
So as you can see again we think also long-term and not just short-term benefit i.e.
we have increased the time the duration of our outstanding debt.
In terms of total cost of debt the year-to-date number would be 4.2%.
It has been 5% in the year 2010.
It has been 4.4% in the year 2011 i.e.
it keeps on coming down.
Your final question comes from the line of Priya Ohri-Gupta of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just have a very quick question around your short-term borrowing balance.
It looked like it spiked up pretty significantly in the quarter despite some of the longer term issuance that you did.
Could you just speak to sort of what the moving pieces were there? Well I mean essentially as you said this is short term.
We are able to borrow at extremely favorable rates on the commercial paper market.
That was actually a $3.7 billion at 20 basis point average by the way 20 basis point average at month's end.
This fluctuates.
So the year-to-date average would be already $1 billion less would be $2.7 billion.
But last year's average was -- the full year average was $1.9 billion.
So you will always have fluctuations there.
But in terms of overall financing really the basic principles and the cornerstones around it have not changed the most important being that we want to be comfortably in the middle of a single A credit rating.
And that was our final question.
Sir do have any closing remarks? Okay I just want to thank everyone for joining us today on the call.
If you have any follow-up questions you can contact the Investor Relations team.
We're based here in Lausanne this quarter.
So thank you all and have a great day.
Thank you for joining the Philip Morris International First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Good day and welcome to the Philip Morris International Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is scheduled to last about 1 hour including remarks by Philip Morris International management and the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Nick Rolli Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Welcome.
Thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we issued a press release containing detailed information on our 2012 second quarter results.
You may access the release on our website at www.pmi.com.
During our call today we will be talking about results for the second quarter 2012 and comparing them with the same period in 2011 unless otherwise stated.
References to volumes are to PMI shipments.
Industry volume and market shares are the latest data available from a number of internal and external sources.
Organic volume refers to the [ph]   volume excluding acquisitions and net revenues exclude excise taxes.
Operating Companies Income or OCI is defined as operating income before general corporate expenses and the amortization of intangibles.
You will find data tables showing adjustments to net revenues and OCI for currency acquisitions asset impairment exit and other costs free cash flow calculations and adjustments to earnings per share or EPS as well as reconciliations to U.S.
GAAP measures at the end of today's webcast slides which are posted on our website.
Today's remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results.
I direct your attention to the Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements disclosure in today's presentation and press release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections or forward-looking statements.
It's now my pleasure to introduce Hermann Waldemer Chief Financial Officer.
Hermann? Thank you Nick and welcome ladies and gentlemen.
We again achieved strong underlying business results in the second quarter with actual results impacted by both unfavorable currency movements and the hurdle we faced in Japan due to our extraordinarily results there during the second quarter last year.
Our organic cigarette volume in the quarter was down 1.2% to 238.3 billion units.
However excluding the Japan hurdle of 6.3 billion units organic cigarette volume was up 1.4%.
In addition our organic volume of other tobacco products increased by 11.8% in the quarter.
Net revenues and adjusted OCI excluding currency and acquisitions were up by 2.9% and 3.5% respectively.
Without the Japan hurdle our growth rates would have been in line with our annual mid- to long-term currency-neutral targets of 4% to 6% and 6% to 8% respectively.
Adjusted diluted EPS reached $1.36 in the second quarter slightly ahead of last year and were up by 9% excluding the currency.
If one also takes into consideration the previously disclosed Japan hurdle of $0.10 at an EPS level then adjusted diluted EPS excluding currency was up by a very strong 17.7% in the second quarter.
Our results for the first half of the year were excellent.
Organic cigarette volume was up 1.8%.
Excluding currency and acquisitions net revenues and adjusted OCI grew by 6.5% and 8.3% respectively.
Finally adjusted diluted EPS increased by 13.3% excluding currency.
These results confirm our expectation of solid organic cigarette volume growth in 2012.
We have the best geographic footprint in the industry and leadership in both emerging and developed markets.
Our volume is growing strongly in many markets in both the Asia and EEMA regions offsetting weaker volume trends in the EU region due to the deterioration of the economic situation and weaker consumer confidence.
Consequently we expect to continue to grow currency-neutral profitability at a rapid pace with sustained strong pricing and a favorable product mix only partially offset by an unfavorable geographic mix.
Exchange rates however continue to be volatile.
At prevailing exchange rates the forecast currency headwind this year is slightly higher than the $0.25 per share that we predicted in June.
However our underlying business is very strong and this is expected to offset the additional unfavorable currency impact of $0.02 per share.
We are therefore today reaffirming our reported diluted 2012 EPS guidance of $5.10 to $5.20 compared to $4.85 in 2011.
On a currency-neutral basis our guidance implies a forecast growth rate of approximately 10% to 12% compared to adjusted diluted EPS of $4.88 in 2011 this despite the Japan hurdle and weak industry volume in Europe.
Let me remind you that our mid- to long-term currency-neutral annual growth target for adjusted diluted EPS is also 10% to 12%.
As we indicated during our Investor Day last month cigarette industry volumes in the EU region were unusually depressed in the second quarter.
The overall decline was 9.7% with significant reductions not only in markets such as Greece and Spain but also in Italy and Poland with even Germany suffering a 5.1% drop.
The decline was driven by a reduction in daily consumption while smoking incidence has remained relatively stable.
For the first half of the year cigarette industry volume in the EU region was down 5.8%.
This confirms that the second quarter decline was unusually severe as adult smokers adjusted to the renewed recessionary environment and there were some unfavorable timing issues.
Our current expectations for the second half of the year is that the decline rate for cigarette industry volume in the EU region should be similar to that experienced during the first half of the year.
The average unemployment rate across the European Union increased by 0.7 points between June 2011 and May 2012 with significantly more pronounced increases in Greece Spain and Italy.
Only Germany showed a meaningful  [indiscernible].
As a result of the deteriorating job markets the average unemployment level in the EU stood at 10.3% in May with Spain and Greece double this level.
France and Italy are just below the EU average while Germany and the Netherlands continue to have relatively low levels of unemployment.
We have always highlighted unemployment levels and trends as key indicators for industry volume.
We therefore do not expect a return to the normal underlying decline rate of 2% to 3% in the EU region until the issue is addressed in a meaningful way.
We have achieved a resilient market share performance in the second quarter with 38.5% overall in the EU region 0.2 points below the previous year's level.
On a half year basis our share of 37.9% was down 0.4 points.
We are very encouraged by the performance of Marlboro in this difficult economic environment.
In the second quarter Marlboro's share in the region grew by 0.3 points to 18.4% and it was up slightly on a 6-month basis.
Marlboro gained share in the quarter notably in Belgium Czech Republic Finland Germany Greece Hungary Italy and Poland.
L&amp;M continued to grow share in such markets as Finland Germany Poland and Slovakia but this was not enough to offset declines in the quarter in Greece the Netherlands Portugal and Spain.
Chesterfield is performing very well and is being successfully established as a strong second leg for us in the low-price segment in the EU region.
We are rapidly gaining share in the growing fine cut category.
Industry volumes increased by nearly 8% in both the second quarter and the first half as adult smokers down-traded to less expensive options.
Our share of the fine cut category rose by 1.4 points in the quarter and by 1.7 points in the first half to 14.1% and 14% respectively.
The market situation in Italy deserves specific attention.
Cigarette industry volume in Italy declined by 10.5% in the second quarter and by 8.5% in the first half of 2012.
The most important single factor has been a reduction in consumer purchasing power aggravated by the payment of increased property taxes in June and the increase in cigarette prices over the last 12 months.
This unfavorable development in the cigarette industry is not a unique phenomenon as a wide range of consumer products have been affected by the economic slowdown.
Impacting specifically the cigarette industry there has also been down-trading to the fine cut category and an increase in illicit trade particularly the so-called illicit whites with brands such as Jin Ling and Classic.
Despite recent price increases the fine cut category grew by 74.6% in the quarter though it still represents a relatively modest 6.5% of total tobacco industry volume.
In terms of market share Marlboro is performing strongly.
It gained 0.3 points to reach a 23% share in the quarter despite the continued pressure on the Premium segment.
However our overall cigarette market share declined in both the quarter and the first half as the strong performance of Marlboro and the launch of Philip Morris Selection in the low-price segment were unable to offset the decline of our local heritage brand Diana.
In contrast our share in fine cut grew by 24.5 points in the quarter to a record level of 31% firmly establishing us as the category leader in Italy.
In Germany cigarette industry volume declined in the quarter by 5.1%.
This was attributable to the impact of the recent price increases a decline in consumer confidence in spite of low unemployment rates a difficult comparison with the second quarter last year that was up 4.6% and some timing issues.
We believe that the first half year decline of 1.3% is a better reflection of the underlying trend.
PMI continued to strong perform strongly with further share gains in the second quarter.
Our share in cigarettes was up 0.3 points to 36.4% and our share in fine cut grew by 1.2 points to 16%.
We are very pleased by the improved performance of Marlboro which gained 0.3 points in the cigarette category and 1.2 points in the fine cut category while L&amp;M continued to grow share in the cigarette category and Chesterfield gained in both the cigarette and in the fine cut categories.
As a consequence of the industry volume declines our second quarter results were soft in the EU region.
Cigarette volume was down 9.4% only partially offset by a strong 18.2% growth in OTP volumes.
Net revenues and adjusted OCI excluding currency and acquisitions were down 0.7% and 2.7% respectively.
We were largely able to offset the lower volumes with higher prices.
Excluding currency and acquisitions June year-to-date net revenues increased by 2% and adjusted OCI was just above the prior-year level on the same basis.
In contrast we had another very strong quarter in the EEMA region and our results year-to-date June were equally excellent.
In the quarter organic volume grew by 4.9% while net revenues and adjusted OCI excluding currency and acquisitions increased by 12.7% and 22.9% respectively.
While pricing at $114 million continued to be a significant contributor to the growth in EEMA's OCI it was almost matched in the quarter by our $104 million volume/mix variance.
This is in fact the fifth consecutive quarter of positive volume/mix in the region.
This was driven by the strength of our brand portfolio with a particularly encouraging performance of our premium brands with volume up 7.4% in the second quarter.
Overall 9 of our top 10 brands in that EEMA region grew volume in the quarter with just Chesterfield down.
Marlboro had a strong quarter with a volume gain of over 1 billion units or 5% driven mainly by North Africa Saudi Arabia and Serbia.
The performance of Parliament was truly outstanding with volume up 1.1 billion units or 16.3% driven mainly by Eastern Europe and Turkey.
On a market basis our strong results were led by Russia so let me provide you with further details on this important market.
Though we do not have definitive data yet we believe that the Russian cigarette market grew slightly during the first half of the year.
We attribute this to an improvement in the economy and a return of foreign workers as the construction industry has started to pick up again.
As a result of recent price increases in cigarettes foreseen hikes in utility prices and the slightly slower expected economic growth in the second half of the year we forecast that full-year industry cigarette volume should reach a level similar to last year's.
We are outpacing industry volume.
During the second quarter our volume increased at a much faster rate of 8.7% and was 5% higher in the first half.
Two very important positive aspects of the Russian market were uptrading by adult smokers in spite of significant price increases and our ability to gain market share thanks to the strength and breadth of our brand portfolio.
For the quarter through the end of May our market share was 0.7 points higher at 26.1% thanks to the strong performance of Parliament L&amp;M Bond Street and Next.
We took a further price increase of RUB 3 per pack across our portfolio in July.
We launched Marlboro ClearTaste in Russia in June.
This is a much smoother-tasting line of products which addresses adult smoker product preference.
We started the launch in key cities and have already achieved outstanding distribution at point of sale.
Initial consumer feedback and trial data are positive.
It will of course take several months before we can draw any firm conclusions.
Our performance in the Asia region was again very strong in the second quarter.
This was however masked by the aforementioned hurdle in Japan.
Our organic cigarette volume in the quarter was up 7.4% excluding the Japan hurdle driven primarily by Indonesia though down 0.7% on a reported basis.
Likewise excluding the Japan hurdle adjusted OCI excluding currency and acquisitions would have shown a strong increase but it was down 2.6% including the full comparison for Japan.
Industry volume in Japan increased by nearly 10% in the second quarter compared to the distorted period last year.
For 2012 we are now forecasting a stable total market though the underlying trend remains a moderate decline of 1% to 2% a year going forward.
During the first half of this year Japan Tobacco accelerated its program of new launches and this has had some impact on our market share which reached 27.8% in the second quarter.
This was 0.2 points lower than the previous quarter but still substantially above the pre-earthquake share levels.
Lark Hybrid 100s maintained an 0.4% market share and we launched Marlboro Black Menthol Edge 8 and Marlboro Menthol Edge 1 during the second quarter.
Our latest launch this month is Marlboro Ice Blast in 5-milligram and 1-milligram variants 8-milligram variant having achieved a 1.3% market share during the second quarter.
With these efforts and additional new launches in the pipeline we are confident that we should be able to stabilize our market position going forward.
On the fiscal front the Japanese government obtained Parliamentary approval for a two-step increase in consumption tax from 5% today to 8% in 2014 and 10% in 2015.
While prices remain government-controlled the last tax increases resulted in margin-enhancing price increases.
Volumes continued to grow in the second quarter in Indonesia albeit as expected at a slower rate than in the first quarter.
Industry volume grew by 6.9% in the second quarter while PMI volume increased by 17.8%.
Supported by a strong economy adult smokers have been uptrading to the Premium segment which has grown by 2 points in the first 6 months this year.
PMI has the strongest and broadest portfolio in the Indonesian market along with an unmatched national distribution network and highly qualified and motivated employees.
Our market share grew by 3.1 points in the quarter to 33.5% as Sampoerna A remained the fastest-growing brand in terms of share gains with an increase of 1.2 points to 13.1% and we continued to benefit from rounded price points.
Going forward we forecast a market growth of around 8% for the full year and look for further PMI share growth though at a slower pace than in the first half of this year.
Pricing continues to be the most important single driver of PMI's profitability.
The pricing variance was $463 million in the quarter giving a half year pricing variance of $832 million.
This year we have increased prices notably in Argentina Australia Brazil Germany Indonesia Italy Korea Mexico the Philippines Poland Russia Saudi Arabia Spain and Ukraine.
Our volume/mix variance was obviously negative in the quarter due to the Japan hurdle.
However as you can see on the chart excluding the hurdle 8 of our top 10 brands grew volume in the first half of the year and the other 2 were essentially stable.
In volume terms Marlboro achieved the largest growth while in percentage terms Fortune Sampoerna A Parliament and Lark all recorded double-digit growth.
We are continuing to expand our market share in our top 30 OCI markets.
Our June 3-month moving average share of 36.9% is above both our 12-month moving share and the 2011 results and 1.4 share points above the 2010 share level.
Free cash flow declined in the second quarter by $703 million to $3.2 billion.
Unfavorable currency movements were responsible for over half this decrease.
In addition we built up finished goods stock in Brazil and Russia and working capital consequently increased by $388 million.
This will be reversed during the third quarter when this inventory is sold.
During the second quarter we spent a further $1.5 billion to repurchase 17.8 million shares.
In June the board approved a new 3-year $18 billion share repurchase program which will start in August when funds from the previous program will have been fully utilized ahead of schedule.
Our target remains to spend $6 billion on share repurchases this year.
Since the spin [ph] through the end of June this year we spent $24.4 billion to repurchase 449.9 million shares representing 21.3% of our shares outstanding at the time of the spin [ph] at an average price of $54.21.
In conclusion the second quarter of 2012 was as expected a very strong one in terms of underlying business momentum but a challenging one in terms of reported results due to the Japan hurdle and unfavorable currency movements.
As we foresaw during our June Investor Day EEMA and Asia region results were very strong in the second quarter enabling us to offset unusually weak cigarette industry volume in the EU region.
The breadth of our geographic footprint the continued strong pricing environment based on our superior brand portfolio and productivity gains enabled us to grow both net revenues and adjusted OCI in the second quarter excluding currency and acquisitions.
Adjusted diluted EPS ex currency increased by 9% in the second quarter.
If the $0.10 hurdle related to Japan were excluded the increase in adjusted diluted EPS ex currency was a very substantial 17.7% confirming the overall strength of our business.
We have reaffirmed today our 2012 reported diluted EPS guidance of $5.10 to $5.20.
Compared to adjusted diluted EPS of $4.88 in 2011 this represents a growth rate of approximately 10% to 12% excluding currency.
Thank you.
I'll be happy to answer your questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of David Adelman with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Two things I wanted to ask you.
First in the EU do you think that you can maintain on a local currency basis the overall profitability of the business for the foreseeable future if volume declines persist at these above trend rates maybe not the rate in the second quarter but at higher than historical rates of decline? Well I'd say for this year -- I mean for the second half we expect a similar decline but at the same time we continue to be cautiously optimistic to achieve low single-digit OCI growth excluding currency nevertheless.
In the EU region in years before where we had similar decline rates we had similar results.
Yes we see continued market declines there but there are also talking for this year also several positives in there.
In Italy there was still the potential VAT increase looming in September that has been called off postponed to next year but who knows what happens until September of 2013.
But it's not going to happen this year.
In Spain the VAT increase of 3% on all goods is being compensated for cigarettes by ad valorem decrease.
That's good news too of course.
And in France some sort of price increase is going to come in the remainder of the year and despite this economic trouble in the entire region the Marlboro share is actually up.
So overall yes I think we can do that we can still achieve low single-digit OCI growth also in the EU region.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question Hermann.
Can you just update us all on the status of the potential excise tax increase in the Philippines and the potential for fairly substantial duty increase potentially in the GCC countries? Okay.
Philippines first.
The situation there is that the House of Representatives has passed a bill with pretty substantial disruptive excise increases for 2013.
Thereafter even in that bill the positive is that it takes a multiyear approach but that is for now the House of Representatives.
The legislative processes is by far not being closed.
After the summer recess first the Senate is expected to weigh in on the question.
Then should there be disagreement between Senate and House of Representatives then it goes into the so-called bicameral committee.
So what I'm telling you here is there is more discussions to come in the third and in the fourth quarter.
Then on GCC while there is a discussion going on that discussion we have had many years also -- for many years also in the past it's still an open question.
I really don't have an update to that one.
We'll see in the remainder of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the Philippines.
Thanks for the update on the tax situation which is helpful but could you provide just a little more color on the current market dynamics just in terms of the market declining there what's going on and how you expect this to evolve as the year unfolds and into next year? Well okay.
First of all I mean let me start then with the economy.
I see that the economic outlook in the Philippines which is actually brilliant I mean the GDP the last number I saw I believe that was the quarter 1 number up 6.4% with an inflation I think it has been May a little less than 3%.
Remittances of Filipinos working abroad up substantially in 1 month.
That's about an amount of $1.7 billion coming to the country.
Therefore I mean in terms of consumer environment that's actually pretty good.
That translates now in the total market that for the full year we would expect a slight growth.
So I would say the full year market about 100 billion cigarettes.
Last year was 97.5 billion roughly.
So a slight increase therefore in the total market despite the price increases that was there.
In terms of shares yes share we lost a bit of share and we lost that share essentially to some local company there which let me put it this way sells at surprisingly low prices.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Hermann just a second question on your Be Marlboro campaign.
Could you give us just further details on the rollout and then maybe a little more color on just some key markets where this campaign has been having a positive impact on Marlboro? Well first of all it is of course where it started it's in the German market where it has been doing tremendously well continues to do tremendously well.
I mean it is -- as you know it is the continuation at the end of the day and the translation into modern values of what was the Marlboro campaign the cowboy campaign stood for.
So it's receiving excellent feedback continues to receive excellent consumer feedback in the German market.
In adaptations you will find it in more and more markets around the world.
It's not always going to be exactly the same what you see in Germany but it's the same idea the same philosophy behind.
And we will roll it out from there.
It has started in some Latin American markets and it will go further.
It is the new worldwide campaign.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First in Japan so the consumption tax proposals that you've talked about in Japan other than the consumption tax increases are there any discussions of national or regional tax increases that are being discussed at this point? Well not regional what will come later in the year is of course a discussion on the excise tax outlook.
Typically as the budgetary year of the government goes from 1st of April to the end of March there as you of course [indiscernible]  These discussions will start in December with a decision kind of by year-end.
At this point in time I really couldn't predict the outcome there but it is obvious and clear that we will be advocating for a multiyear excise tax plan which would be beneficial for both the government in their quest to maximize revenues and could also be profitable for us at the same time.
Research Division</strong> Is there anything to glean from the fact that they did approve the other consumption tax increase? Yes I would say it is a positive there it is a first step to developing an entire refinancing plan if you like for all the funds needed to cope with the cost of the natural disaster of last year.
So in that context the discussions take place.
Consumption tax was of course the key element in there.
Excise tax I believe is going to be a normal discussion.
It will not be dominated by that question on the consumption tax.
To put that a bit into the context that's something that is going to be manageable for us.
It always depends of course what you assume to be the price level when the consumption tax kicks in at that time April 2014 and October 2015.
But kind of the first increase means a rollover of about JPY 15 and the second one means a rollover of about JPY 10 per pack.
That's manageable of course.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
And you've talked about the market in Japan the market consumption decline this year being now more stable.
Can you just talk about why at least this year the market seems to be doing better than expected? Well at the first quarter call I think I still expected 1% to 2% decline there.
It's of course -- to be honest it's a hard market to read with all the distortions from last year into this year.
We had a prolonged period where incidence -- smoking incidence had stayed stable.
It has come down a little bit the last 2 months but not much.
So that's why I think that the underlying really is probably a 1% to 2% decline going forward.
Now I'm talking next years and thereafter.
That's of course [indiscernible] pricing.
I'm talking about the underlying trend.
But this year when we take it all together the obvious estimate is now [ph] that it should be about flat.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of your guidance so if you look at first half your adjusted earnings up 13.3% excluding currency even with the hurdle that you faced in second quarter from Japan.
It sounds like just based on your guidance maybe a little bit of a slowdown in the back half.
I'm just wondering if there are any other factors that sort of makes you think that the earnings growth could slow down in the back half.
Are you thinking just in terms of Europe potentially a bit more conservative stance? I'm just wondering if there's anything to think about in the back half.
No I mean there is nothing on the underlying business trends there.
It is simply some -- often a question of comparisons.
If I take the Japan hurdle out then organic volume in the first half has been going 3.3%.
I mean I can't expect 3.3% for the full year I think nobody does although we are optimistic to achieve our mid- to long-term organic volume growth target of 1% despite the hurdle in Japan.
To give you one example of tough comps if you go to the EEMA region then the first half volume results compared to declining trends in the first half of 2011 whilst the second half of the year will compare to already an overall growth rate of 2.4% in the second half of 2011 last year in that region.
So it's a bit of comps but underlying our business is in very good shape.
And Europe has of course been factored in into our full year guidance.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Kieley with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to Europe and Southern Europe specifically could you just talk about if the volume trend in those countries has changed much compared to what you indicated at the Investor Day? And what gives you confidence that the volume in Southern Europe will have been most weakest this quarter and then stabilize more in the second half? Okay.
Well it seems they have not really changed much compared to the Investor Day projections.
The quarter has come out slightly worse than what we already had highlighted there.
I mean in terms of market sizes then the best will be we go to the biggest markets there.
Germany which has been down in the second quarter by 5.2% is down on a year-to-date basis 1.3%.
I would say in Germany expect about 1.5% for the full year.
So the 5% are not representative at all in that sense.
Italy is a complicated market these days.
I mean I had it in my prepared remarks austerity measures and consumer confidence going down doesn't make it easier.
However I would say for the full market for Italy I would expect something like 7.5% maybe 8% decline.
The first quarter was down 6% the second quarter was down 10.5%.
7.5% [ph] to 8% could be a full year number there in Italy.
Spain I think the forecast that we had of something in the range of 10% for the full year outlook is still a reasonable assumption.
It is of course was very important that the VAT increase has been offset by reduced ad valorem rates.
Therefore in that context I think the minus 10% for Spain is still a realistic number.
If I add in then France there I would say take out the technical factors and stuff.
Something like 3% is probably a realistic assumption for France.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other question I had is just your commentary in the guidance the language about the anticipated business improvement in Asia and EEMA regions.
Does that mean -- I mean it sounds like that's mainly -- you're seeing better macro trends in Russia your growth in Indonesia.
Are there any other specific positives that you are calling out in those 2 regions? Well we just raised our prices by RUB 3 in Russia in July.
That plays into that one as well.
But other than that yes I mean the overall environment is really good.
The economic environment is kind of the antipode of what we see in the EU region.
And with the right portfolios the right brands we are benefiting from those trends in those parts of the world.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Hermann I want to ask you 2 questions if I could.
The first was a bit of a follow-on to Japan and it sounds like you're now expecting sort of share stabilization there for the year.
And really just more a question about why.
Do you have less new productivity or are you seeing a little bit more competitive activity of course out of Japan Tobacco? Maybe it's a combination of factors but I just want to get a little more perspective on your expectation for share in Japan.
We had a very slight loss here.
I mean we came down from 28% to 27.8%.
That's a slight loss.
We are competitive people.
We don't like that.
But one also has to acknowledge that competitors are not asleep on the switch either.
We have had a very successful launch with Marlboro Black Menthol as you remember.
JT has come out now also with a successful highly mentholated product that they pushed into the market that has had some share consequence on us but that's the second quarter.
As I said we are already out there in July.
Our sales with new launches with 5-milligram and 1-milligram versions of Marlboro Ice Blast.
The 8-milligram version is the one that has 1.3% share which is after such a not-so-long period in the market a fantastic share.
But competition will go on and we're never afraid of competition.
But we take also the other  [indiscernible]  Serious that's all there is.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It sounds like it's not a change though.
And so your new product introductions are plans for say the second half of the year though.
Correct? No we have still more in the pipeline for the second half of the year of course.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just want to be clear on that.
And then I just had a question for you a follow-up on the EU.
Obviously we had obviously a difficult quarter this quarter an expectation for that to improve a bit from where we were this quarter.
And I want to be clear.
In the second quarter were there any -- was there any negative effect on volumes from inventory distortions or movements that made this quarter look a little worse than what the underlying results would have shown? I mean Germany has been comparing to the second quarter in 2011.
That was up by 4.6% and it happens to be that Easter is in the first quarter and in the second quarter from 1 year to the next.
That's just very very technical there.
So yes there were some inventory movements in there.
And typically at quarter ends you sometimes see intense activity of some competitors with the trades which we don't do.
Your next question comes from the line of Rogerio Fujimori with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Hermann you flagged the problem of illicit trade in Italy.
Has the problem of illicit trade in Spain got worse in Q2? Illicit trade in Spain should be about 10% 12%.
I would assume there so it's increased -- it's on the increase there as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second question Hermann is whether you could give us some color on the phasing of marketing spend this year.
Should we expect any change to the usual skew towards second half and Q4 in particular? No I wouldn't expect a change in general trends there.
It's really -- it's kind of a lot of activities going to the second quarter before the summer break and then you have -- it's picking up towards year-end.
That's a very normal pattern which has not changed over the years.
I don't see a change now either.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last question is just any early reading on volume trends in Brazil both the tax-driven price increase and the minimum price.
Sorry volume trends in Brazil you said? Research Division</strong> That's correct.
Brazil.
Okay.
Well in Brazil you of course have now had -- the pricing is implemented the tax increase was made first.
All the prices are there.
We do see an adherence of local manufacturers to the new minimum price of BRL 3 there but as the minimum price is still relatively low I think the real effect will only come with the already scheduled and foreseen minimum price increases over the years.
We don't see however really an improvement on the illicit product flowing in from Paraguay into Brazil.
Your next question comes from the line of Thilo Wrede with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Hermann I would have expected L&amp;M to do a little bit better in the EU given that there's probably down-trading going on.
What am I missing there? Well sometimes you can't have it all.
Marlboro is doing better.
I think the 2 are a bit linked now.
But seriously that's -- L&amp;M did nothing wrong.
The brand is going well.
In Germany the growth has -- it's still growing but it has slowed down a little bit.
But that's fine with me it's recuperated with Marlboro.
And then when you go over to Spain well in Spain the declines there in Spain are actually linked to brands that absorb part of the minimum tax today there.
I'm talking about brands that fell at less than EUR 3.55.
This is today the kick-in with minimum tax.
That kick-in actually is going to EUR 3.77 of September 1.
So I look forward to that date.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in Japan at what point do you think the innovation disadvantage that you have relative to JT right now? At what point will that start to fade? I would say that I just admitted that they have had a real hit with the highly mentholated product that has come out under Mild Seven.
We have  [indiscernible] had a series of very good ones too.
We will keep on working on our new launches and being competitive in the market.
A onetime hit does not change this plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question I have for you.
With illicit trade picking up again in Canada is that a cautionary tale that may be a sustainable fighting of illicit trade is much harder than some short-term successes might imply? Honestly to the contrary although you might further elaborate thereafter to the contrary I have big hopes that illicit trade will come further down in Canada because the province of Ontario has declared that they are essentially copying the measures that the province of Québec had implemented was it now 2 years ago which have brought quite a bit of volume back into the legal tax-paying market.
So as the enforcements in Ontario kicks in and the total illicit trade in Ontario is estimated to be about 4 billion cigarettes so quite a bit of that could come through and the legal market could benefit from that.
So honestly I would expect the opposite going forward in Canada.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer with Citi.
Research Division</strong> My first question has to do with the launch of the new Marlboro line in Russia.
You guys posted volume growth on the Marlboro brand in that market for the first time in a number of quarters and I'm curious if you could give us a sense of how much of that growth was from the selling of the new products versus any kind of underlying benefit to organic volumes for Marlboro.
Yes.
In the second quarter on Marlboro ClearTaste there is of course -- and now we talk shipment numbers.
We don't talk Nielsen numbers we talk shipment numbers.
It's still of course a pipelining effect bringing the product to the distributor and from there into wholesale and retail trade.
The volume total volume increase in the EEMA region in the quarter was 3.8 billion cigarettes.
Out of that roughly 10% has been Marlboro ClearTaste.
So yes it's there.
It's some pipelining effect but it's just 10% of the overall growth.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
My next question again on EEMA has to do with Turkey.
At your Analyst Day you highlighted some early successes in reductions in the illicit trade and it sounds like that was again a benefit onto the Turkish market in the quarter.
Given the acceleration you've seen there -- I think 4.5% roughly year-to-date volume growth for the industry -- do you have a sense of how much volume is coming back into that market? Yes our latest estimate is that illicit trade has come down by about 3 percentage points national average from 20% actually to 17%.
That's our latest estimate these are of course by definition always estimates.
So the 4% growth that you quoted that's actually a good estimate for the full year.
So I would expect the total market to be in the range of 95 billion cigarettes.
Research Division</strong> Wonderful.
And my last question has to do with Spain.
And I hate to split hairs here Hermann but if I think about your outlook for the full year of 10% in line with year-to-date and I look at the comps that you face I think it implies some kind of improvement in the back half of the year because 1 half of '11 the market was down 19% and then you finished the year down 17%.
So is it the VAT change or is there something else that gets you on the margin incrementally more positive that despite a tougher comp you can maintain the trend? [indiscernible] There's a multitude of factors at play here.
There were the price increases that we have seen several ones that you remember.
There is now -- there hasn't been a price increase now for a while and the VAT threat has been avoided.
Then in terms of comparisons it was also a question of how much volume is in retail trades.
But at the end of the day that's the best estimate we have coming out of the Spanish market.
Can it be 11%? Can it be 12%? It could but we talk something around 10% for the full year.
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bloomquist with Berenberg Bank.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to ask about the plain packaging and I'm wondering if there's a difference in the WTO challenge having the Dominican Republic file a complaint.
Does this mean that there's more momentum in the formal adjudication panel? And then secondly is there any read through from that to what may happen in the U.K.
with the consultation underway and then perhaps with the results some time toward the end of this year beginning of next year? Okay.
I mean on plain packaging you have actually mentioned 2 of the 3 developments in that area.
The WTO claim of the DR that has now officially filed a request for consultation with Australia actually I believe yesterday or the day before yesterday.
That adds another country and it adds more doubt and pressure into the procedure.
We continue to be optimistic that more countries will actually follow that example so that put simply more weight into the WTO claims between those governments.
On the U.K.
the extension of the consultation period by another month now to mid-August because that was supposed to end mid-July is simply driven that a lot of people have made submissions and continue to make submissions to the government.
I take it as a sign that the government is serious about their evaluation efforts in that process.
And if that is all happening on a rational basis -- and I continue to think that this is the case then I would also expect that the U.K.
government comes to the same rational conclusion as they came 2.5 years ago not to implement.
The third new element the new one is actually under the bilateral investment treaty claim that Philip Morris has.
The first procedural hearing is actually now scheduled for July 30 in Singapore.
Research Division</strong> And then coming back to the Turkish market could you update us on the outlook for any tax increases at the end of this year beginning of next year? Are they thinking about raising the ad valorem again or is that somewhat off the table? Okay.
Remember when we were here at the first quarter call there we had had the press statement of the Finance Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister that they will address the excise tax structure.
That has happened.
The Council of Ministers has authorized specific tax to be implemented to an amount of up to 20% of the minimum excise tax.
The timing and the actual percentage and amounts that's still to be defined but I would expect it still this year.
So I think that is a positive development and a sign of rationality in the whole process.
Your next question comes from the line of Ann Gurkin with Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could just help me with the Marlboro brand franchise.
We saw volume flow sequentially from Q1 to Q2 and we saw good share of growth continuing in Q2.
But how should I think about that franchise in the second half the impact of market pricing innovation? Can you just help me think about volume and share progression as the year unfolds? Well first of all I mean really I mean not even the quarter  [indiscernible] year-to-date.
Yes for Asia I have to pick the hurdle out.
But excluding the hurdle in Asia Marlboro is up 0.24 to 6.2%.
That's all year-to-date June numbers.
In the EU it's up 0.3 to 18.4.
In EEMA it's up 0.1 to 6.9 despite still measured by Nielsen declines in Russia.
Latin America up 0.4 to 14.2.
So yes it's growing.
It's also growing in terms of shipments.
So even year-to-date excluding -- including the hurdle it's up 1.7.
Excluding the hurdle it's up 2.9.
And if I then move over to really to the big markets where it's really substantially up then you have there -- first of all I would think of Mexico.
It's growing -- I mean the quarter 1.2 percentage points to 53.2.
I mean the brand is in terrific shape there.
It's growing by 0.9% in Poland.
In Poland you see a phenomenon that the top 10 brands really capture more and more of the market volume and you see a consolidation into fewer brands.
That's clear uptrading [ph] potential for us and for a Marlboro  [indiscernible] element there.
Germany we talked about earlier on the call.
Italy it's growing despite recessionary environment.
And 0.3 percentage point to 4.5 in Indonesia given the size of the Indonesian market it's quite some volume.
Then you go to those markets where Marlboro is actually down and there are very specific reasons in there understandable reasons which are not there to be forever.
Korea it's down 0.9 to 7.7 while that is clearly driven by our price increases that we implemented and we compare still to the periods that we had price advantage versus international competitors and were at par with the Korean competitors.
In France it's down 0.8 in the quarter to 25.2 very simply driven by the fact that Marlboro is the only big brand who is retailing at above EUR 6.
There are a lot of brands retail below EUR 6.
As I mentioned earlier there's a price increase coming up in France.
And in Spain the decline -- in such a recessionary environment what else could we expect? But take it all together driven by the innovation driven by new campaigns driven by better execution on the marketing and sales level a new commercial approach Marlboro is doing well.
Pockets of weakness like Russia exist and we work on those.
I'm very positive on Marlboro overall.
LLC Research Division</strong> So tracking where you all would expect for the year? Is that fair? Could you say again? I could not hear.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is it tracking in line with expectations for the year Marlboro overall for the first half? Absolutely.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Hermann just one last clarification on the EU.
Not to beat this thing to death but it does sound like you're indicating broadly across the segment that I guess the first half volume numbers may be a better indicator of what the go forward looks like than are the Q2 numbers right? Even though it looks like things have continued to worsen especially from a macro perspective and the number was a little worse than you even thought a month ago.
So I guess can you I guess give a little bit more color on what the inventory/timing piece of the EU is that will cause Q3 and Q4 to get better than Q2? I'm just trying to understand why we'd think that that first half number is a better indicator than the more recent Q2 number.
Well I mean there is many markets in there.
And as I said earlier Germany is just -- I think it's the most flagrant example there.
I mean you had Q2 down by 5.2 whereas year-to-date it's down by 1.3.
And our full-year estimate for the German market is down 1.5.
So you have this technical reason in the second quarter where in Q2 2011 you compare to an up of 4.6%.
These are comps.
Let's not get hung up too much really on quarters.
Year-to-date trends are the more reliable indicator.
I'm not talking it rosy here.
Yes EU region is not easy but there is no reason to believe that the EU region is now going to be down 10% for the rest of the year.
It's not going to be down 10% for the year it's going to be down in the range of where the year-to-date is which is anything around 6.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Avery with CLSA.
One quick question.
You had said your estimate for the increase in leaf costs was around 2% for 2012.
Has that changed at all with the drought in the U.S.? Is there upward pressure on that? No.
I mean what we see there really is about 2% 2.5%.
2.5% I think is the most realistic number of the kilo prices going up.
The drought in the U.S.
I mean this is a worldwide business.
One individual geography does not change total trends.
So maybe marginally but not substantially.
Okay that's helpful.
And then you had cited Thailand and Vietnam as a couple of the drivers for growth in Asia.
Those are obviously relatively small markets for you but can you give a little color on what's going on there? Were they up quite a lot to be worth mentioning? What sort of growth that you're seeing there? Vietnam remember we have kind of restructured a bit our business set up there last year which has given us a better influence on marketing and sales of our products.
We are actually from a very low place almost doubling volumes in that market but admittedly from a low base.
We concentrate on the 5 or 6 big cities.
The best example that highlights the future growth potential is actually that in the city of Hanoi we now have a market share of about 15%.
So there's plenty of possibility going forward.
Thailand is a bit more a volatile environment where we are up against a well-protected Thai monopoly.
But we have good trends there but it's a bit more complicated there I would say.
Well that's helpful.
And lastly just in Indonesia obviously the volume growth there is very strong.
What kind of pricing gain did you see in the quarter? In Indonesia the way we implement pricing in Indonesia is actually that we increased several times over the year.
That can be anything between 5 to 8x on average per year.
Our trading price is into the wholesale trade.
So it's not like in many other places where you have whatever an excise increase and the morning thereafter all the prices changes.
So Indonesia has constant pricing throughout the year.
So that just continued like normally [indiscernible]? Yes.
There's nothing particular there.
Your next question comes from the line of David Hayes with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Two if I can.
Just coming back to this the guidance not changing.
Obviously as you made the point the EU was a little bit worse since we saw you in June.
The currency obviously got a little bit worse as well.
Could you just be a little bit more specific about which markets have got better over the last I guess 4 to 6 weeks that leave you confident that you're still in that range? Or was there a little bit of comfort baked into the previous guidance and you're just not through that level yet? And then secondly just following up on the Indonesian point.
Clearly that's been a huge successful year both in terms of the market but your market share performance.
Are you seeing anything from competitors in terms of trying to arrest that market share momentum that you seeing? Or would you be confident that that will continue given what you're doing there through the second half in terms of market share? Let me start with Indonesia.
As I said [indiscernible] before I mean we don't -- nobody can expect continued share growth in the range of 3 percentage points all the way along.
We have said that this is going to slow down a bit.
But that being said I'm just convinced that we have the best company there we have the best brands we have great management we have great employees we have great distribution.
We're just doing extremely well.
And overall the pricing environment is rational the government yes is increasing excise taxes every year but has not done that for years in a disruptive manner.
So the elements are all there for a very positive performance to continue in the Indonesian market.
And then for your first question on the overall guidance I mean let me answer that way.
We are all very pleased to see that our Asian growth engine is now complemented by very strong performance also in Eastern Europe.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is that Russia? I mean it sounds like the presentation in the release that maybe Russian trends were stepping up a little bit in the last and then I guess your performance there with the investment behind Marlboro.
Is that one of the key markets to your point that's kind of got better than you were hoping for over the last couple of months? Russia by its sheer size of course is the most important market in the EEMA region.
But there is also Turkey there is also Ukraine there is Kazakhstan there is North Africa there is the GCC countries which are also very prosperous countries with growing population and growing purchasing power.
So there are many places in that region.
Of course Russia is the most important but there are many others.
Your next question comes from the line of Karen Lamark with Federated Investors.
Just wanted to go back to the EU and ask you to comment on how you see the balance of volume and pricing in light of apparent increase in price elasticity and the illicit trade.
And really what I'm trying to get at is whether or not these conditions and competitive dynamics might warrant a change in thinking about pricing particularly if macro pressures seem as they do seem likely to persist.
Honestly I don't think so because when it comes to pricing then the first thing you need to think about is excise tax and governments all across Europe have been rational.
I think there can't be a more convincing example of the very recent one in Spain that disruptive measures do not maximize excise revenues but regular moderate steps maximize excise revenues.
That is at the same time the best not only for the governments but also the best for industry competitors like ours.
So I do not see a change in the rational environment.
You have seen a continuation of that rational environment.
If you look back over the last 2 years the European crisis is already going on for a little longer and then the last 6 months.
And I see no sign why that all of a sudden would turn and change into an unreasonable environment.
I can't see that.
Your final question comes from the line of Thomas Russo with Gardner Russo &amp; Gardner.
My 2 quick questions.
Can you spend a second talking about the role of Lark in Japan? It seems like the brand that's most impacted by the Japan hurdle and tell us about the strength of Lark and the innovation applied to Lark in Japan.
And then the second question was just to look for an update any kind of narrative on the next generation of products that you tipped [ph] us to recently and whether there's been anything newsworthy.
Okay.
I mean on Lark in Japan let me put it this way.
Lark is more of a traditional brand more of a Japanese brand as funny as that might sound.
And that's why it's probably a little bit more vulnerable than a truly international brand like Marlboro is.
That's why successful launches of competitors as the one I was quoting probably is putting more of a dent into a Lark than it eventually could put into a Marlboro.
That being said it has been a big growth driver last year.
So everything has 2 sides.
So we did have a lot of additional smokers into Lark during the special situation the crisis of last year.
In terms of NGPs there's really nothing new to report compared to our presentations that we had at our Investor Day really only a month ago.
That was our final question.
I'd now like to turn the floor back over to management for any closing remarks.
Okay.
I'd like to close with some personal remarks here.
It was an exciting journey over the last 5 years which started with preparing the spinoff the spinoff itself and then life as an independent company.
Quoted at the stock exchange has been a wonderful period of my life.
It was a great pleasure for me to work with you all.
And more importantly to get to know you the analysts following our company and many of our investors.
Let me thank you for your confidence and trust over these years.
I will certainly remain a shareholder of PMI because it's simply a superb company and I hope to get a chance to see you again in the future.
Thank you and all the best to all of you.
Hermann thank you very much and let me add my personal congratulations and best wishes to you.
Certainly on behalf of the Investor Relations team we appreciated everything you did for us your support your commitment your wisdom your friendship and we wish you nothing but the best in your retirement.
So congratulations and thank you.
And with that we'll thank you all for joining the call as well.
And that concludes our call.
If you have any follow-up questions you can contact the PMI Investor Relations team in Lausanne.
Thank you.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Philip Morris International Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is scheduled to last about 1 hour including remarks by Philip Morris International management and the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Nick Rolli Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Welcome.
Thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we issued a press release containing detailed information on our 2012 third quarter results.
You may access the release on our website at www.pmi.com.
During our call today we will be talking about results for the third quarter 2012 and comparing them with the same period in 2011 unless otherwise stated.
References to volumes are to PMI shipments.
Industry volume and market shares are the latest data available from a number of internal and external sources.
Organic volume refers to volume excluding acquisitions.
Net revenues exclude excise taxes.
Operating Companies Income or OCI is defined as operating income before general corporate expenses and the amortization of intangibles.
You will find data tables showing adjustments to net revenues and OCI for currency acquisitions asset impairment exit and other costs free cash flow calculations and adjustments to earnings per share or EPS as well as reconciliations to U.S.
GAAP measures at the end of today's webcast slides which are posted on our website.
Today's remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results and I direct your attention to the Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements disclosure in today's presentation and press release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections or forward-looking statements.
It's now my pleasure to introduce Jacek Olczak our Chief Financial Officer.
Jacek.
Thank you Nick and welcome ladies and gentlemen.
We remain confident that the fundamentals of our business are solid despite the difficult comparisons in the third quarter that we have previously discussed.
We expect to achieve our annual organic volume growth target of 1% and adjusted diluted EPS growth in line with our mid- to long-term constant currency annual growth target for the full year 2012.
Today we narrowed the range of our 2012 reported diluted earnings per share guidance to $5.12 to $5.18 compared to $4.85 in 2011.
This guidance includes unfavorable currency of $0.23 a tax charge of $0.05 related to the closing of the U.S.
federal income tax audit for the years 2004 to 2006 and $0.02 of asset impairment and exit costs.
Excluding the impact of currency the aforementioned tax charge and asset impairment and exit costs our guidance implies a growth rate of approximately 11% to 12% compared to an adjusted diluted EPS of $4.88 in 2011.
Let me remind you that if we exclude the $0.10 hurdle due to Japan in 2011 the growth rate would be even higher at 13.5% to 14.5%.
Our revised guidance also reflects the increased investments in marketing sales and distribution particularly in the Asia and EEMA regions.
Turning to our third quarter results.
We posted our strongest-ever quarterly results this time last year with organic cigarette volume growth of 4.4% and adjusted diluted EPS up 33% on a currency-neutral basis.
As expected therefore our third quarter results this year suffered from these very tough comparisons with organic cigarette volume down 1.3% and adjusted diluted EPS up only 5.8% on a currency-neutral basis.
Through the end of September this year we have achieved strong results with organic cigarette volume up by 0.7%.
Excluding currency and acquisitions our net revenues and adjusted OCI have increased by 5.4% and 6.9% respectively.
Adjusted diluted EPS has grown on a currency-neutral basis by 10.9%.
Let me now move to the European Union where economic conditions continue to be very difficult.
Unemployment continues to rise in the southern European countries most notably Spain.
Consequently tax-paid cigarette volumes were down at a double-digit rate in the quarter in Greece Spain and Italy while in contrast the decline in Germany was a much more moderate 2%.
For the EU region as a whole the decline was 7.5% an improved trend compared to the second quarter and down 6.5% through the first 9 months of the year.
For the full year 2012 we still expect that cigarette industry volume will decline by about 6%.
A key component in the decline of the duty-paid cigarette market in Southern Europe has been adult smokers switching to lower-taxed fine cut products and to illicit cigarettes.
This can be illustrated by Italy where the duty-paid cigarette industry volume declined by 10.1% during the third quarter while fine cut grew by 41%.
In addition the incidence of nondomestic illicit trade for 2012 in Italy is expected to reach approximately 9% up from an estimated 6.5% in 2011.
Our business performed very well in this difficult environment.
Marlboro gained 0.8 points in the quarter to reach a cigarette market share of 23.5%.
This was sufficient along with the 0.4 share points gained by Philip Morris Selection to more than offset the share decline of our traditional local brand Diana.
Overall PMI's market share rose by 0.2 points to 53.2%.
We are now also the leader in the fine cut category and doubled our share to 27.2% behind Chesterfield and the launch of Diana.
In Germany where unemployment remains low cigarette industry volume declined just 2% in the third quarter while sales of fine cut products increased by 2.3%.
These robust trends took place despite tax-driven retail price increases earlier this year and were due in part to a reduction in border sales.
Marlboro continued to gain share in the cigarette category in the third quarter up 0.2 points to 21%.
With L&amp;M essentially stable at 10.2% our overall cigarette market share was in line with 2011.
In the EU region as a whole economic conditions will remain difficult until the issue of unemployment is tackled.
In the third quarter our cigarette shipments declined by 8.1% or 4.6 billion units driven by the 7.5% decrease in the industry volume.
Our fine cut volume in contrast increased by 15.2%.
The drop in our cigarette volume can be in large part attributed to an increase in illicit trade particularly in southern European countries where total tobacco smoking incidence levels have remained relatively stable.
We are very pleased by the performance of Marlboro in the quarter.
In an obviously difficult environment for premium brands Marlboro was able to expand its market share by 0.4 points to 18.4%.
Marlboro's share grew not only in Germany and Italy but also in markets such as Belgium Greece and across Central Europe notably Poland.
L&amp;M remained resilient despite a 0.2 share points decline to 6.5% attributable to adult smokers up-trading to Marlboro in Greece and Poland.
Chesterfield gained 0.3 points to reach 3.5% reinforcing our overall position in the low-price segment.
Overall our cigarette market share remained stable at 38.1% while we further expanded our position in fine cut adding 0.6 points to reach a category share of 13.4%.
Across the EU region our pricing remained strong the latest increase having taken place this month in France.
However the positive pricing variance was insufficient to offset the volume decline.
Net revenues and adjusted OCI excluding currency were consequently down by 1.9% and 2.9% respectively.
This also reflects the continued investments behind our brands and field sales force.
In the first 9 months of the year adjusted OCI on the same basis has decreased by just 0.9% and we remain confident that we should be able to achieve an increase in profitability excluding currency in the EU region for the full year 2012.
Our results in the Asia region were impacted by the difficult volume comparisons in Japan and Korea where our shipments grew by 47.1% and 22.4% respectively in the third quarter of 2011.
We also faced challenging comparisons in Indonesia where we achieved a 22.5% volume increase in the third quarter of last year.
Nevertheless our volume this quarter in Indonesia grew by a further 13% as we continued to increase our share in this growing market.
Adjusted OCI excluding currency and acquisitions grew by 1.2% in the Asia region during the quarter this despite the unfavorable geographic mix.
Improved profitability in Indonesia and higher pricing across the region more than offset the impact of lower volumes in Japan and Korea.
Importantly our market share in Korea has sequentially improved from the second to third quarter of this year and is at a higher margin following our price increase in February 2012.
Industry volume in Japan declined by 7.7% in the quarter compared to a very distorted third quarter last year when distributor and trade inventories had been replenished to ensure adequate stock levels following the event in Japan.
Nevertheless we still expect stable industry volume for the full year 2012.
PMI's market share of 27.5% in the third quarter reflects a continued positive trend for Marlboro which increased its quarterly share sequential in 2012 to 12.5%.
On a September year-to-date basis PMI's market share of 27.8% remains nearly 3 share points higher than the level before the events unfolded in Japan last year.
However we have witnessed unusually high levels of competitive product introductions which have put pressure on our traditional brands Lark and Philip Morris.
We continue to develop our innovation pipeline and expect Marlboro's positive momentum to continue.
For the full year we are now expecting our market share to be slightly below our 2011 exit share of approximately 28%.
Our leading position and our strong share momentum in Indonesia give us a unique position in the global tobacco industry.
Market growth is expected to continue driven by favorable demographics.
In addition improving consumer purchasing power is helping to drive up-trading with the premium segment reaching a share of 27.4% in the third quarter compared to 24.9% a year ago.
In the third quarter we witnessed a decline in the low-price segment where retail selling prices have increased at a faster rate than in other price segments.
As a result combined with the anticipated enforcement of Decree 191 by the end of November which will eliminate a tax loophole we expect industry volume to grow in the range of 6% to 7% for the full year 2012.
Our volume increased by a further 13% in the third quarter and market share grew by 3.3 points to 34.9% with a particularly strong performance from premium-price Sampoerna A in the Kretek category and Marlboro in the white cigarette category.
Let me conclude the Asia region with an update on plain packaging.
As you know the Australian High Court ruled in August that the plain packaging legislation does not violate the Australian Constitution and on October 5 issued its reason.
In reaching a conclusion 6 of the 7 High Court judges recognized that plain packaging deprives tobacco companies of valuable intellectual property.
The conclusions of the High Court are significant for other governments considering plain packaging as they demonstrate that plain packaging is a deprivation of property something that we expect would raise serious questions about the legality of plain packaging legislation in other jurisdictions.
The ruling turned on the specific if not unique nature of the Australian Constitution which provides broad powers to the Commonwealth Parliament to make laws but contains few protections for basic rights.
Australian law is violated only if the government as the taker of property receives a proprietary benefit from that property.
Despite the fact that the property was taken the Court found that the government did not acquire the property because it did not receive such a proprietary benefit.
By contrast the law in Europe and other countries is different.
For example in contrast to the Australian Constitution the Constitutions of the EU Member States generally contain strong protections for fundamental rights and place limits on the powers of central governments.
A finding that manufacturers have been deprived of property would in our view amount to a violation of a number of EU and Member State laws.
Due to the scope of this specific case the Australian High Court did not rule on whether plain packaging will reduce smoking prevalence or whether plain packaging breaches Australia's international trade and treaty obligations.
The High Court ruling confirms that other ongoing international legal cases are strong and that the Australian government is at serious risk of having to pay substantial compensation in these cases or bring its plain packaging measures into conformity with international treaties or both.
Three countries have already initiated proceedings against Australia before the World Trade Organization on the ground that the plain packaging legislation is contrary to Australia's obligations as a WTO member.
Philip Morris Asia is suing the Australian government for multiple breaches of its bilateral investment treaty with Hong Kong.
Decisions in these cases are expected within 2 to 3 years.
In broad terms these cases will examine a number of issues including whether there is any valid evidence that plain packaging will reduce smoking rates; whether there are effective less restrictive alternatives that Australia could have implemented instead; whether plain packaging breaches Australia's international trade and treaty obligations; and whether the Australian government will need to pay compensation to Philip Morris Asia.
We believe that the international legal cases are strong and there is still a long way to go before all the legal questions about plain packaging are fully explored and resolved.
Let me now move to the Latin America and Canada regions which had solid share momentum in the third quarter.
Although volume was down we increased our share in the key markets of Argentina Brazil Colombia and Mexico.
Marlboro was particularly strong across the region with share up in Brazil Colombia and Mexico.
Excluding currency adjusted OCI increased by 10.5% in the third quarter.
The EEMA region was our strongest performance -- performer in the quarter this despite a challenging comparison.
Volume grew by 3% with continued strong business momentum in Russia and Turkey as well as an improving market climate in Egypt.
Higher volumes a favorable mix and pricing in Russia and many other markets resulted in a growth in adjusted OCI excluding currency and acquisitions of 17.3%.
This is the sixth consecutive quarter that our volume mix has been favorable in the EEMA region.
Russia was a key driver of our strong EEMA region performance both in terms of volume and pricing.
In July we implemented a tax-driven RUB 3 per pack price increase.
Along with lower revised estimates for industry volume in the first half of the year and higher prices in the market industry volume is now expected to show a slight decline for the full year 2012.
Our volume in contrast increased by 4.5% in the quarter thanks to our good share momentum as well as some favorable inventory adjustments.
Our Nielsen market share on a quarter and year-to-date basis through the end of August was 0.7 and 0.6 points higher at 26.5% and 26.2% respectively.
Parliament Bond Street and Next have remained the key drivers of our stronger share performance.
We are also pleased that L&amp;M's turnaround is gaining momentum with a 0.2 share point gain in the first 2 months of the quarter.
In Russia the government approved amendments to the tax code at the end of September including excise tax rates for the period 2013 to 2015.
The government has reconfirmed the excise tax rates for cigarettes in 2013 and 2014 and extended the tax code to 2015 with an indexation of the specific excise tax set at 20%.
The Duma will now review the code by mid-November and we expect a final vote by year end.
On a year-to-date September basis Marlboro grew share in all 4 regions benefiting from a robust pipeline of innovative products.
Marlboro's share increased notably in Argentina Germany Indonesia Italy Mexico and Poland.
On a worldwide basis excluding China and the U.S.A.
the brand's share increased to 9.3%.
While we are pleased by Marlboro's strong performance we are even more delighted by Parliament in the above premium segment.
Parliament volume increased by 10.7% in the third quarter and by 9.4% so far this year.
The brand has gained share year-to-date in 4 of its most important markets and is making inroads in newer markets.
In Turkey Parliament achieved a market share of 8.7% representing a gain of 0.8 points August year-to-date.
We continued to expand our market share in our top 30 OCI markets.
Our September year-to-date share reached 37%.
This is 0.4 points above our full year 2011 share and 1.5 points above our full year 2010 share.
The pricing environment continues to be favorable.
This is highlighted by the $505 million in pricing variance that we achieved in the third quarter and the $1.3 billion year-to-date.
The combination of strong pricing limited input cost increases and productivity savings has enabled us to continue to grow our superior adjusted OCI margin.
On a PMI-wide basis our adjusted OCI margin excluding currency and acquisitions reached 46.2% a gain of 0.7 points in the first 9 months of the year.
On a September year-to-date basis our free cash flow reached $7.1 billion.
Compared to the previous year free cash flow excluding currency was down $1.7 billion or 18.6%.
The decrease was driven by higher working capital requirements mainly related to finished goods forestalling and the planned replenishment of tobacco leaf and clove inventories.
For the full year 2012 we expect that our free cash flow excluding currency will be down slightly and will not adversely impact our dividend and share repurchase programs.
Our confidence in the underlying strength of the business and our ability to continue to generate significant cash flow is reflected in the 10.4% increase in our dividend that was announced last month.
Since the March 2008 spin-off we have raised the dividend 5x increasing the annualized dividend by almost 85% over the period.
We spent $1.5 billion to repurchase a further 16.7 million shares in the third quarter.
Since the spin-off we have now used almost $26 billion to repurchase nearly 467 million shares at an average price of $55.49.
We continue to target spending of $6 billion this year.
In conclusion the third quarter of 2012 was as expected a difficult quarter in terms of comparisons with last year's record third quarter.
Looking at our performance year-to-date through September we remain confident that for the full year 2012 we should be able to deliver on our 1% organic volume annual growth target driven by strong performances in the Asia and EEMA regions.
We narrowed the range of our 2012 reported diluted EPS guidance to $5.12 to $5.18.
Excluding the impact of currency a tax charge and asset impairment and exit costs our guidance implies a growth rate of approximately 11% to 12%.
Finally we remain steadfast in our commitment to deliver superior returns to our shareholders evidenced by the fifth consecutive increase in our dividend since the spin and our $6 billion target for share repurchases this year.
Thank you and I will be happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Jacek so first just in terms of guidance I guess there's a lot of confusion just in terms of your guidance update.
So if we look at the reported guidance now $5.12 to $5.18 and compare that versus your prior guidance of $5.10 to $5.20 at the midpoint it doesn't look like it's changed a whole lot but you basically have taken the underlying guidance up currency is a little bit more favorable.
So can you just bridge the guidance kind of from $5.10 to $5.20 to $5.12 to $5.18 both underlying in currency and et cetera? Okay.
Yes I think I'll start with our previous guidance which was $5.10 to $5.20.
And if you remember at that time this guidance included the $0.27 of unfavorable currency versus the 2011.
Our new guidance assumes the $0.23 of unfavorable currency again versus 2011.
So we have a gain of $0.04 on the currency.
Also in our previous guidance we did not have the impact of the tax charge of the $0.05 related to the closing of the U.S.
tax of this and the $0.01 for the asset impairment and exit costs.
So it gives me a $0.06 or gives us a $0.06 of adjustment if you like.
So if I have a $0.05 adjusted for better currency or $0.04 adjusted for the tax charge negative $0.06 I am at the -- we were at the $5.08 to $5.18 which we narrowed upward if you like to the $5.12 $5.18.
And this should imply a growth rate on x currency basis of approximately as we said 11% to 12% versus the adjusted diluted EPS of $4.88 in the previous year.
And I think it's clear -- it should be clear now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when you think about 2013 and you think about your long-term growth target of 10% to 12% growth would you be targeting to grow off of the $5.12 to $5.18 or the $5.18 to $5.24? One for this year would be $5.18 to $5.24.
Actually you should say $5.19 to $5.25 just not to further complicate the issue.
We have the $0.01 of adjustment in the first 2 quarters of the year and the $0.01 extra of the adjustment for the [indiscernible] in the third quarter.
So to be perfectly accurate I should say it's $5.19 to $5.25.
Research Division</strong> Which is the base that you would target the 10% to 12% off for next year? That's right.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of EU Jacek so it sounds like you're expecting some recovery in fourth quarter just versus what you've been seeing year-to-date.
So can you just walk us through kind of why you're thinking that you do get some nice bounceback in fourth quarter to kind of get to that full year down 6% for EU? I think it's partially due to the comps which we expect for the Q4 this year versus Q4 last year.
We've had a very bad or very low quarter driven by some timing of the pricing tax changes in the last year.
So we expect this to ease the pressure for this year.
And also we see how the end of the quarter 3 which was very low sorry quarter 2 which was very low for the EU and then how quarter 3 we closed.
I think this gives us the confidence that we should be in a range of 6% even I would say marginally the volumes for the total market in EU may go a little bit below 6% or let's say 6% [indiscernible].
Your next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> My first question is on Japan.
As you discussed you've put a lot of new products in the market.
So could you talk about how you're balancing this innovation while maintaining strength with some of your core brands in the country? And also could you give us more color on the competitive pressures and how you see this playing out next year such in light of Japan Tobacco's plans to change their Mild Seven brand name? Okay.
As we said or I said in our remarks we're very pleased with the performance of Marlboro which not only is obviously about the level which it had before the special situations in Japan.
But also sequentially the quarter this year [ph] Marlboro has a higher share.
Our focus since the beginning of the year was essentially primary on Marlboro.
So 4 out of 5 of the big year initiatives which we have deployed into the market were behind Marlboro 2 behind Marlboro Ice Blast and 2 behind Marlboro Edge.
The most growing or the most dynamic segment today in Japan is around menthol super slim propositions and sometimes with the capsules -- with the menthol capsules.
And this is exactly what we're pushing behind Marlboro.
JT because this I was referring mainly as the competitor deploying quite a large amount of new initiatives in the market seems that they took a little bit of a different approach because this was broadly on the entire portfolio.
So clearly there are some brands which are more on the traditional spectrum of the consumers and hence the losses which we incurred in the quarter of this year are more on our traditional brands which is Lark.
So Marlboro is in a very good shape.
I think the innovations behind Marlboro [indiscernible] this year and what we have in the pipeline for the next year I think we are in good shape.
It's more of the fact that the focus of JT and the deploying number of innovations there and our share is a little bit below the 28% exit share.
Now with regards to [indiscernible] and the Mild Seven it's difficult for me to comment a competitor's move.
It is clearly a very bold and a bright move and create some challenges presumably for JT and create I would argue some opportunities for others.
So let's see how this thing is going to unfold in the market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I have another question and it would be on Russia.
How are you guys going to manage the scenario where there likely will be increased regulations smoking bans and then taxes? What are your expectations for consumption in the market and consumer behavior if these proposals are enacted? And then could you give us just a little bit more color on the progress you're making with Marlboro in Russia? Okay.
So on our tax in Russia I think first we're very pleased that the Russian government continues with this 3-year tax outlook.
I mean we always -- I think it is good from a government perspective when they heard the news and also from the industry that large perspective to have a 3-year tax visibility adding the 2015 clarifying what rates they would like to have is very helpful.
Now that's clearly -- there will be a substantial target increase in the 2013 '14 and '15 but something which we planned or you could say we anticipated.
So I think at the end of the day it's going to turn manageable on the tax side.
On the regulatory side I'll discuss just for us also to understand it still needs to be approved by Duma.
This is not the final thing but this is what we know at this point in time.
In terms of the regulatory okay they have 3 issues or the 3 subjects which they want to cover for the regulatory to understand today the cabinet approved and they moved it now to Duma for Duma debate.
There's a smoking ban for the [indiscernible] sector the [indiscernible] which I think they target in 2015 as implementation.
So it's not 2013 or 2014 it's '15.
And the workplaces ban which is 2013 i.e.
next year.
Then you have some restrictions on sales in the outlets below the 50 square meters.
So that clearly will have some impact on our volume allocations between a trade channel and the experience from other markets is that this -- it makes it a little bit more [indiscernible] for consumers to walk a few extra 100 meters to the next shop but doesn't impact the smoking rate of consumption as is potentially the smoking ban because if I go to the more mature market where most of the countries in the planet who have in the work who have a smoking ban you have an impact of a 1% to 2% at the beginning of the implementation and then the market moderated sometimes even comes back to the previous level.
So I think it is overall pretty manageable situation but we need to assume that Russia is moving into the total market performance when you're serving a more mature country.
So maybe 1% maybe 2% part of the total industry decline.
Your next question comes from the line of David Adelman of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First Jacek could you help me understand the magnitude of the negative effect you had in the Asian division from the year-ago increase in trade inventories? I think you're referring mostly to Japan.
Research Division</strong> Yes in Japan.
Okay.
The Japan situation was like this.
We had -- what we announced at the end of the year we had a hurdle or what we call the hurdle in Japan the 6.3 billion units of the equivalent what we said the $0.10 on EPS.
And this was related to the hurdle which we had in the second quarter mainly in the second quarter of last year okay due to the higher end market sales and the higher market share.
What we have been confronted with in the third quarter of last year is that obviously following the high sales in the second quarter we ended up with extremely low inventories of trade level.
And we have to replenish this inventory to the safety level and that's essentially when the distortions come through.
And if you would do the quantification of this thing I think that the adjustment would be the range of say about the 1 trillion units okay of Philip Morris.
So you're talking about the distortions which we have to pay i.e.
we have to replenish inventories to the safety level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly Jacek in the EU I mean you obviously have -- had run that division.
What's the midterm outlook for Philip Morris in the EU? Do you think it's reasonable that for the foreseeable future that you can maintain local currency operating income? Do you think that that's an ambitious objective? Or do you think despite the economic situation of the unemployment levels and so forth you can continue to eke out a little bit of growth over time? Okay listen we managed to maintain if not actually we expect that we even can slightly grow the profitability on a net currency basis this year.
So yes it is ambitious.
Obviously there was a huge effort.
You see how what we believe was Marlboro and how it nicely [indiscernible] OTP segment.
So obviously we're trying to manage and mitigate the impact of the crisis.
Now until you see the improvement on unemployment side very much in the south of Europe because this right here is performance of the entire EU and I hardly can see how the situations can improve.
But we are currently in a crisis I'm talking Philip Morris and we'll manage the situations pretty well.
So unless there are any shocking type of excise increases which we don't see today at all I think the situation is very challenging and we all know it but I think it's manageable.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Two other quick things Jacek.
The resignation of the EU health minister do you think that's going to have any effect on the outcome or the timing of the pending update of the tobacco products directive? Listen already EU should be today after the interservice consultation okay? There was some delays before the departure of Mr.
Dalli.
I mean we have learned about this new development the sudden departure.
Listen we just hope that EU Commission will have a transparent evidence-based process while reviewing this directive but at this stage we do not know how the departure of Mr.
Dalli will impact the timing of the strategic review.
This is a development of the last couple of days.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly Jacek on working capital is the build -- or the use of cash flow for inventories and so forth this year is that a one-off phenomenon? Is that going to be a negligible number next year? Or will there be a working capital build next year in all likelihood as well but it will be considerably less than this year? Or do you envision a similar level of incremental use of cash for working capital next year? Okay.
There are 3 elements which are the 3 key drivers behind the working capital development this year.
One is the [indiscernible] inventory right and that is a variable which depends on the timing and the level of the tax price changes.
So that will remain but I can't give you the marketing figures because this we don't know frankly speaking.
The 2 others is the inventory of leaf level of inventory of leaf and inventory of clove.
And here the situation is a little bit different because we had a very high level of sales also driven by Japan last year and now the inventory has to be adjusted okay because we finished the inventories in 2011 at a little bit lower level because we used that leaf in our cigarettes which we sold last year.
We continue with the high volume this year and you see that we're shooting still at a 1% organic volume growth target.
So we'll continue [indiscernible] inventory which is a good thing because I'm using this to support myself.
Clove is a little bit different thing because there is a cyclical clove and this year I have a very high clove at a much more attractive prices than the previous year.
So I have no choice actually we're going to be doing what everyone should do we have to buy clove once it is in the big supply at the right prices okay? So clove presumably may ease a little bit next year but the rest we'll have to see.
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bloomquist of Berenberg Bank.
Research Division</strong> If I could follow up on the question on the European Union Tobacco Products Directive.
Is there any clearer sense I understand the timing issue but in terms of what we should be expecting as major initiatives embedded within that? And then secondly on the Philippines I noted the market share losses and the citation that that was driven by Champion and Hope.
I wonder if you could talk about what happened there and then secondarily the prospects for the tax law change given the changes in the Senate and the various options going on there.
Okay.
Erik on the TPD as I answered the previous question I mean it's hard to say today what the outcome in terms of the timing is going to be.
We have not much of a visibility what is in a draft directive.
As I said the interservice consultation should have already been at the end and it has not started yet.
So clearly the idea of the proposal attracts the local attentions and therefore the draft proposal is not issued yet.
So we have to just be patient and wait for this one.
Moving to Philippines yes we had to think about the 2 points of the market share loss in the quarter in Philippines that's driven by the low price or bottom of the market.
We had some pressure from I think one of the competitors.
You know that there are some distortions due to the fact that some competitors are touching the prices which is difficult to reconcile if somebody would pay the full excise.
But I think there was a bit of a tax loophole or that sort of a nature problem.
We have adjusted in some regions I think the price of Champion.
So we're defending our position.
But other than that we're doing okay.
I mean Marlboro was up Fortune was up.
So I think that's the only problem which we have.
With regards to the tax I think the Senate just now or next week goes into recess.
I don't think the Senate has yet issued or concluded with their bill depends on how much the Senate will be different to the House of Representatives bill.
They will have a bicameral conference committee when they will reconcile the differences.
I think we'll wait until the end of November to have a tax visibility for Philippines.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with respect to the Swedish match JV I understand that the JV is now in Israel.
Could you comment on what that market offers in terms of additional understanding of consumers and what the prospects are also in St.
Petersburg? Okay.
So we have I think a further market with the joint venture where we're testing the product.
We're trying to understand what is the right way of marketing that product to drive down to consumers.
The whole behavioral part of this et cetera.
I think it's a mid- long-term project.
So I wouldn't go into the specifics of each individual product.
It's a step-by-step learning culture from all this category.
Your next question comes from the line of John Fell of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I'm just wondering if you could delve a little bit more into Italy.
I'm sorry the line wasn't that good.
But first of all did you say that illicit trade had picked up from about 6.5% to 9%? Was that the correct figure? Was that correct figure.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we've got a 2% or 3% legal market decline stemming from that.
What sort of shift out of factory-made cigarettes would that fine cut growth have caused? Well the fine cut growth we said by about 40% -- about the 40%.
I think about half of the volume decline in Italy would be due to the price elasticity and the half would be somehow almost equally distributed between the fine cut and illicit trade.
We will have to zoom in into the geography in Italy because there was a lot of growth on the contraband in the south of Italy.
The accounts now which last year had a contraband below 10% and this year they have 50%.
I mean obviously I can throw you the names of Naples and Palermo.
That is what is happening there.
And also -- yes but that's about I think would be 1/3 of the first distribution of the losses if you like in income.
About half is what we developed specifically and the remaining cause in equal parts would be about illicit trade and the fine cut.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you just give us a rough idea of what the annual increase in prices has been in Italy third quarter versus third quarter last year? I would have to go -- okay this year I think we had March EUR 0.10 EUR 0.10 per pack and this last year you had September EUR 0.20 and July EUR 0.10.
So I think year-on-year basis [indiscernible] to finish at the end of this quarter you had a 4% price increase on a year-to-date basis.
Research Division</strong> And what's a pack of Marlboro now in Italy? About EUR 6? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
I can work that out later on.
EUR 5.
Research Division</strong> EUR 5.
Okay.
And then -- I mean in terms of the rough breakdown of those effects illicit in OTP are we talking something pretty similar in Spain basically? Yes.
It's a different stage of the market because Spain is longer in the crisis but again you have a growth over illicit trade I think comparable development and the growth of the fine cut.
Your next question comes from the line of Thilo Wrede of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jacek can you elaborate a little bit on your views about slowdown of economies in Asia in particular and what impact that could have on market volume growth on up-trading versus down-trading on your ability to take pricing? Yes okay.
I mean I think the biggest slowdown is what I remediate in China.
So for the time being that impacts us directly.
But you take -- and as you look into Indonesia okay there's a slowdown.
I mean they still expect the economy to grow 6% 6.5% highest I think consumer confidence moderate inflation.
So Indonesia which is a big market for us I don't think we have any sort of the headwinds there.
Philippines okay we have this open tax issue but other than that I think the underlying economy is not doing that bad.
As I said I mean I don't want to downplay what we read but I think it's much more coming from China.
And China as I said for the time being does not have that much of an impact on us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And you don't see any risk that China could spill over into other Asian emerging markets as well? Well I'm -- I see the forecast today.
As I said the big large market for us Philippines Indonesia.
Okay Japan is a different story.
But even in Japan this year following the distortions et cetera we estimate about a [indiscernible] market.
I think we should do okay.
In Indonesia we think the market is going to grow in the range 6% to 7%.
I think earlier this year we talked about the 8%.
Actually if I look at the composition of the mix in the market because there is a lot of up-trading I think the value of the market grows better with a 6% to 7% volume and growth assumption that was 8% which we had previous.
So not today.
I mean today I don't think...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in Japan it seems like Japan Tobacco has been for lack of a better word out-innovating you for 2 or 3 quarters now.
Do you expect JT -- at what point do you expect JT to slow down their innovations? Or at what point would you have to step up your innovations for the market? Well I don't think -- I wouldn't say that they're over-innovative.
I mean I think there is not that they have an innovation in terms of the benefit of offer to their smoker which is better than ours.
I wouldn't say it like this.
It is just the number of the launches which they did in the last 3 quarters not on the quality more on the quantity.
I think -- listen I'm not in the shoes of JT.
I can't comment on this and they will stop launching more products.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But right now you don't see any need for you to change your innovation approach in Japan? No.
I mean we still have -- we've just launched this week I believe Virginia Slims so we know we're moving through other brands where we have a pipeline.
A pipeline of initiatives is also preferred.
But I think each of these initiatives has to be launched properly into the market and we need the time to work it with the consumer.
[indiscernible] crucial period of time in the long run it is not Philip Morris [indiscernible].
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just had a couple of questions for you if I could and they're mostly just follow-ups.
I want to ask you a quick follow-up on Japan which is what's the underlying decline rate you expect for that market this year? If you said that I missed that.
I'm sorry.
No for this year I think we estimate the market to be flat versus last year.
So I think with our estimate the market should close at about 195 billion 196 billion units.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So therefore the decline this quarter was not unique or different from what you expected.
No because you had as I said I think there was this replenishment of inventories which I quantified for us to be about 1 billion and I think on the total market the estimate would be in the range of 3 billion the third quarter last year.
So I think if you factor this in you will come to the -- more of the normal situation.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I want to ask about Russia.
There was a comment about some inventory movements this quarter.
And then -- so just -- is there a way to quantify how much maybe that helped your shipments in the quarter? And then related to that I know you've had a better share there.
It's coming from brands other than Marlboro.
And I know you have some new products behind Marlboro.
So just curious if you could comment on that and just kind of the state of Marlboro in Russia.
Okay.
I think the impact on the shipment was I said coming from inventories but we also have a very strong share growth in Russia okay? And this is behind all brands not at this stage by Marlboro.
Now Marlboro we have launched ClearTaste I mean the extensions of Marlboro family into the ClearTaste.
But I think on Marlboro maybe I should put it like this.
Marlboro is for us a midterm journey.
We have 3 issues which we have to continue addressing with regards to the Marlboro underperformance versus our standards in Russia one is the premiumness of Marlboro which we're trying to correct with pricing Marlboro higher than it used to be.
So the last 2 price increases Marlboro actually took a bit more of the price increase that was the increase in the market.
Second thing is Marlboro has an issue of harsh perception and this is what we're addressing as we speak with the launch of the Marlboro ClearTaste.
And the third one is the more modernity side of Marlboro and we continue this with our marketing programs in place.
I think we're making good progress but in order to claim that we have a sustainable growth of Marlboro in Russia I think we need to be a little bit patient.
And we are patient.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I have one final question for you and that's just in relation to the EU region it's going to be your third year of roughly 5% to 6% declines in volume.
And I guess it's difficult to predict the state of Southern Europe and some of those countries.
Looking ahead whether it be 1 year -- or 1 to 3 years is the -- obviously the risk in those markets where you've had this increase in illicit trade such that you could continue to see those kind of declines in the EU region overall.
I guess my question is just related to the illicit trade if that's becoming a -- obviously a larger and larger issue in some of these markets.
Well listen I mean every single government is getting focused or has the right focus now on the illicit trade.
These guys were living with the consequences of in some countries high tax increases in the past and also the sudden erosion of the consumer purchasing power because all these austerity measures dented what the consumer has in their pocket.
I think I said in the remarks if I look in Germany when we see the market's doing very well I mean quarter 3 was pretty strong and we're still looking for the full good year of total industry volumes in Germany I think that's partially because the illicit trade comes back at least to some extent to the legal market.
So I think what we confronted today in the south of Europe one day this volume at least to some extent will come back to the fast-paced volumes to the industry volume.
But as I said I mean unless you see the improvement on the unemployment side I don't think we should be betting on any sudden improvement in Europe.
Your next question comes from the line of Rogerio Fujimori of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Could you just let us know if there was any news in Turkey with regards to the excise tax reform? No.
Well the only news which we had is that I think the government has already increased taxes on alcohol cigarette and some other categories.
So frankly speaking I would expect announcement of a tax increase or tax change in Turkey somewhere before the year end or at the very beginning of the next year.
You know that the government have received the authorization from the Parliament to amend this specific component.
This will be first time historically when Turkey would have a statutory component but we need still see the announcement of the government.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the one question about France.
Could you talk a little bit about your thoughts on the outlook? I appreciate that Marlboro has been obviously impacted by crossing the EUR 6 per pack price but any thoughts on the market would be appreciated.
Well the market I think for the quarter was down about -- a little bit less than 5% 4.5% [indiscernible] 6%.
Year-to-date I think the market is about 4.2% down.
We now have the price increase of the EUR 0.40 for Marlboro went from a EUR 6.20 to EUR 6.60.
But the low-priced cigarettes went from the EUR 5.70 to EUR 6.
But somehow this psychological price point barrier is removed but other prices are higher in the market.
So I think Marlboro had more of the pressure being round about the EUR 6.
This is somehow removed.
But the whole prices are higher in the market so we see how we deal with those.
I feel about some austerity measures in France taking place and so on.
So I think we need to see how that market realizes and what impact it will have.
Research Division</strong> That's good.
And just one final question about Ukraine.
I understand there was some trade inventory movements in the quarter but I was just wondering if trading conditions in Ukraine sequentially have changed relative to the first half.
I think there were some distortions due to the Q3 2011 in Ukraine.
So the market was looking I think 10% lower in Q3 this year but I think it was very much driven by some distortions in the Q3 2011.
I think on a year-to-date basis presumably I did a better number for Ukraine 3.5%.
And I think we estimate that the full year will be in a range of about 3% full year total industry volumes.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer of Citi.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to circle back to the Philippines.
While I recognize it's still early in terms of the legislation that's coming out of the Senate and the House in terms of the excise taxes I was curious if you could at least comment on the price elasticities in that market and how they compare to other emerging markets.
Price elasticity.
Well the market total market I mean this year I think we estimate the full year total market will actually cost 100 billion units.
I think we estimate like 101 billion units.
So this would represent fairly close to the 3% growth of the market.
I mean there is a price increase we took in the market.
Today I mean the elasticities will be in a range which you've seen are replacements.
If you ask me the question how we see that same towards the tax implementation then I need to know what is the tax which final will be implemented there.
So there's a little bit of a speculation at this stage.
So I don't know if we're answering the question.
This year I think the market will grow in the range of up to 3%.
This is our estimate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And in terms of the EU given the outsized growth that you saw in other tobacco products while those are definitely lower margin I was curious at least directionally what your organic profit growth would have looked like on just a cigarette basis.
Because we're entering the fine cut because consumers have preferences for usage of cigarette brand.
I mean there has been [indiscernible] very rapid share advancements in this category.
The fine cut has a lower unit profitability than a cigarette but it is also a [indiscernible] tax structure.
The government -- some government are looking into restructuring of the tax and the fine cut et cetera.
So I mean it's an important element.
It's becoming an important element not in terms of our profitability but overall [indiscernible] service which we're delivering to the customers.
This is how we look at that thing.
Part of this volume I also think will one day come back to the manufacture of cigarettes.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess can you talk a little bit about EEMA pricing? Obviously pricing was good but margins really took a jump.
I understand you took the price increase in Russia but is there anything else in there that would have driven pricing and margin up that significantly? And can I guess -- could you talk a little bit about the sustainability of these margins? Because I think they're the highest on a quarterly basis anyway we've seen in a while.
I think we've had some pricing in Ukraine as well.
So it's not just the Russia which drives the -- Turkey so it's not just Russia and EEMA which drives the price.
And sustainability of the [indiscernible] yes I think as in general we say that the pricing environment is manageable favorable and we have seen how much we had a pricing variance year-to-date on a global basis and I think that thing's going to continue.
Research Division</strong> And I guess one quick thing on the EU right? I mean I think you've been clear that without unemployment getting fixed that market continues to decline.
And I guess can you just talk about the ability to continue time-after-time to generate that 1% volume growth for the total company with an EU drag of 6%? I mean can you just put a little color around your ability to keep doing that? Well I think that this year's going to be the perfect testimony that this is achievable because we have a year when we predict the total industry volumes to go down by 6%.
And despite even the difficult comps in Asia we say that the PMI can deliver 1% organic volume growth target.
I think the engine in EEMA and Asia are working at the full throttle.
They can cover up for the challenging environment which we unfortunately have in Europe.
I feel pretty okay about it.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Avery of CLSA.
I just wanted to touch on illicit trade.
I know you've outlined the size of that opportunity in a lot of markets but it seems like it rarely goes down.
It did in Turkey this quarter.
What were some of the drivers there? Is there any color you can give on what would have helped that? Well as far as the government focus and it's not just the Ministry of Finance the Customs authorities but there's as I understand a number of ministries and the state agencies which finally sat together and decided to do something about it.
And to their credit they did a phenomenal job.
I think the situations or the tensions in the Turkey/Syria border also helping a little bit okay? There was obviously more intensity of the border controls et cetera so that's other key driver.
I think the government which seems to be committed to address the issue of the contraband on the Syria border.
Okay.
And then back to Russia I know we've covered a lot of stuff here.
I just want to make sure I understand exactly what you were saying.
If the tax increase is approved by the Duma as it stands now and as it's written are you saying that that would be manageable? Or would you characterize that as a disruptive tax increase? Or just at least looking from this year to next what's the magnitude of that in your opinion? Well the magnitude of this thing in terms if it stays as it's proposed by the government now then next year this will translate into the platform [indiscernible] platform of I think RUB 6.
And thereafter about RUB 9.
If you take the pricing in Russia and you take the inflation it is an increase it is not a minor increase.
As I said I think a substantial but manageable.
But this is not a [indiscernible] increase.
And so the positive is obviously that it's laid out over a multi-year progression and you'd have the predictability.
But how big of a risk do you see for next year if that goes through as proposed now? Well this is a second year in a row when we have a 3-year tax visibility.
So I think we did more government not only Russia going for that sort of an approach.
I have Germany I have other places where they want to see their 3 4 5 years tax outlook set that way and that clearly demonstrates the results are a benefit for the government.
Okay.
And then one last question a little different.
I know at the Analyst Day you laid out a lot of great stuff about the next-generation products but clearly it takes a little bit of time to commercialize those and get the approvals that you're looking for.
Given the success of e-cigarettes in the U.S.
would you consider doing -- putting those in the market anywhere? I know you were clear about how the nicotine delivery is nowhere near as comparable.
But to the extent that there seems to be a consumer acceptance at least in the market here would that change how you think about doing that as maybe sort of an interim step? No.
Listen our strategy is very clear on this one.
We want to commercialize this product but with a claim.
So I need the regulatory approval to allow me to say what the product which we have one of the 3 platforms which we're working on can provide in terms of a benefit to a consumer.
So we don't want to make a shortcut on this one.
I launched the product which we have but without that being able to make the claim.
I think that's very important.
Your final question comes from the line of Ann Gurkin of Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you about pricing which year-to-date has been a strong contributor to results.
And how should we think about the pricing lever for fiscal '13? One I am afraid I can't share it with you.
But historically if you look at since the spin -- since the spinoff I mean our pricing variance was in the range of $1.6 billion $1.8 billion and I think we don't see that much of a headwind.
So pricing stays in target and it will remain very important component of our growth model.
LLC Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then if we think about marketing spending and brand support are there any changes in that strategy either by market or by brand as you look out the next couple of months? Anything you can comment on? No.
We continue spending.
Listen we have a great growth volume and a share momentum last year this year and also behind the Marlboro and of our premium Parliament and I think it's very wise to continue that spending.
So we're going to continue even in tough environment like EU or other places.
I would now like to return the call to management for any closing remarks.
Well thank you very much for joining us.
That concludes our call today.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact the IR team Investor Relations team here in Lausanne.
Thank you again and have a nice day.
That does conclude the Philip Morris International Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Philip Morris International Fourth Quarter 2012 Year End Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is scheduled to last about 1 hour including remarks by Philip Morris International management and the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Nick Rolli Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Welcome thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we issued a press release containing detailed information on our 2012 fourth quarter and full year results.
You may access the release on our website at www.pmi.com.
During our call today we will be talking about results for the fourth quarter and full year 2012 and comparing them to the same period in 2011 unless otherwise stated.
References to volumes are to PMI shipments.
Industry volume and market shares are the latest data available from a number of internal and external sources.
Organic volume refers to volume excluding acquisitions.
Net revenues exclude excise taxes.
Operating Companies Income or OCI is defined as operating income before general corporate expenses and the amortization of intangibles.
You will find data tables showing adjustments to net revenues and OCI for currency acquisitions asset impairment exit and other costs free cash flow calculations and adjustments to earnings per share or EPS as well as reconciliations to U.S.
GAAP measures which are posted on our website.
Today’s remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results.
I direct your attention to the Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements disclosure in today’s presentation and press release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections or forward-looking statements.
It’s now my pleasure to introduce Louis Camilleri our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Jacek Olczak our Chief Financial Officer who will join Louis for the question-and-answer period.
Louis? Thank you Nick and good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
As expected we finished 2012 on a very strong note with fourth quarter organic cigarette volume growth of 2.9%; net revenues and adjusted Operating Companies Income or OCI both excluding currency and acquisitions increasing by 6.4% and 12.3% respectively; and adjusted diluted earnings per share growing by 16.4% excluding currency.
Our strong volume performance was partially flattered by some favorable inventory movements which we estimate added some 60 basis points to our 2.9% growth rate.
Cigarette volume for the full year reached 927 billion units an increase of 1.3% on an organic basis.
The solid performance reflects the breadth of our geographic coverage our excellent balance between emerging and developed markets and our superior brand portfolio.
The key volume drivers were the EEMA and Asia regions where we realized organic volume growth of 4.6% and 4.2% respectively which more than offset a 13.5 billion unit or 6.4% volume erosion in the European Union region reflecting a decline in cigarette industry volume due to continued economic woes particularly in Southern European markets.
In 2012 we achieved strong market share performances across all four regions with gains of close to 1 share point in the Asia EEMA and Latin America and Canada regions and an essentially unchanged share in the European Union region despite significant competitive trade loading in Germany at the end of the years.
As a result our global market share excluding China and the U.S.
increased by 0.5 percentage points to a record 28.8% in 2012.
Our global volume and share performance should be solid in 2013 and we anticipate organic volume growth of up to 1% excluding the Philippines.
Continued strong pricing across all four regions was the key driver of our revenue and OCI growth.
Generating a favorable variance of $1.8 billion in 2012.<br><br>We incurred a slightly unfavorable volume mix variance with positive volumes stable brand mix and an unfavorable geographic mix.
Indeed absent the Japan hurdle our volume mix variance would have been positive which we view as a significant achievement.
In addition we increased our investments in the business notably in Germany Indonesia and Russia focusing in particular on our key brands in market field forces and infrastructures.<br><br>In 2012 net revenues grew by 5.6% excluding currency and acquisitions on the same basis adjusted operating companies income increased by over $1.1 billion or 8.1%.
These growth rates were at the high end of our mid to long term currency neutral annual growth targets of 4% to 6% and 6% to 8% respectively.<br><br>Our strong business results and our substantial share repurchase programs enable us to increase our adjusted diluted earnings per share to a level of $5.22 in 2012 representing a growth rate of 11.7% excluding an unfavorable currency impact of $0.23 per share.
We entered 2013 with strong business fundamentals and excellence trends and we’re optimistic on the prospects of our business.
With the recent exception of the Japanese Yen exchange rates have generally stabilized compared to 2012 and we’re forecasting a currency headwind of approximately $0.06 per share in 2013 at prevailing rates.
We must recognize however that currency rates remain volatile.
Our reported diluted earnings per share guidance of prevailing exchange rates is in a range of $5.68 to $5.78 versus $5.17 in 2012.<br><br>This corresponds to a growth rate excluding currency of 10% to 12% compared to our adjusted diluted earnings per share of $5.22 in 2012.
Thus we again expect to meet our mid-to-long term currency neutral annual EPS growth target in 2013.
This would be the six consecutive years of achieving this target.
This guidance factors in the expected impact of the disruptively large excise tax increase that took place at the beginning of this year in the Philippines.
The new law increase the excise tax on premium price Marlboro and low price Fortune from 12 to 25 pesos and from 2.72 to 12 pesos per pack respectively.<br><br>In a response we have increased the recommended retail price per pack of Marlboro from 32 to 51 pesos and that of Fortune from 15 to 25.5 pesos.
It will take several months before we can accurately gauge the actual impact of such pricing on total industry volume and on potential consumer down trading.<br><br>The volume impact however is expected to be considerable in a range of 20% to 25%.
We nevertheless anticipate that the impact on our earnings will be marginal given our pricing actions.
I would like to say a few words about one of the key regulatory challenges that we’re facing the European Union’s proposed new tobacco products directives or TPD.<br><br>Let me emphasize at this stage it is a proposal the content of which still has to be approved by both the European Council of Ministers and the European Parliament.
During this review process it maybe amended and the final outcome remains uncertain.
Once the consensus is reached by both the Council and the Parliament the TPD has to be transposed into local laws by each member state.
The European Commission has indicated that it expects that it will take through 2014 to reach an agreement and the full implementation will only incur in 2015 or even 2016.<br><br>The proposed TPD does not mandate plain packaging as was feared but it does contain a number of proposals that we believe have no credible scientific basis and would be counterproductive.
These relate both to products and their packaging.
It calls notably for a ban on menthol and slimmer cigarettes and the introduction of 75% graphic health warnings.
Menthol and slimmer cigarettes accounted for approximately 10% of European Union cigarette industry volume in 2012 though in markets such as Poland accounted for about one-third of consumption.
We believe that such measures would inevitably lead to both an increase in illicit trade and a reduction in government revenues with no benefit to public health.
Rest assured that we will do everything in our power to ensure that reason prevails and that the obvious unintended consequences of the current draft do not materialize.<br><br>As mentioned earlier we expect to achieve organic cigarette volume growth excluding the Philippines in 2013.
Strong volume growth in the EEMA regions and the other Asian markets is forecast to more than offset continued volume declines in the European Union region where no significant overall improvement is foreseen until the current high levels of unemployment are meaningfully reduced.
Our key premium brands Marlboro and Parliament are performing strongly as volume and share are expanding across a wide range of geographies.
Our overall brand portfolio is in excellent shape with a strong complementary presence in profitable mid and low priced segments.<br><br>The global excise tax environment remains reasonable with the obvious exception of the Philippines and the pricing environment continues to be favorable.
Pricing will again be the key growth driver of our earnings.
Some 75% of our anticipated pricing variance in 2013 upon which our guidance is predicated has already been implemented or announced.
The Asia EEMA and Latin America and Canada regions are forecast to generate strong OCI growth again this year while we expect to be able to maintain our current high level of profitability in the European Union region excluding currency.<br><br>Our brands are performing very well with 8 of our top 10 brands increasing volume in 2012 excluding the Japan hurdle.
Arguably our greatest achievement in 2012 was the continued growth of Marlboro with its architecture firmly in place complemented by the new campaign and the continued rollout of an array of consumer relevant line extensions across the Flavor Gold and Fresh lines Marlboro continued to expand its share on a global basis to reach 9.3% excluding China and the U.S.<br><br>For the first time since the 2008 spin Marlboro grew share in all four regions underscoring its enhanced brand equity continued relevance and renewed vitality.
Above premium price Parliament achieved double-digit volume growth last year to reach a total of 43.4 billion units.
This excellent result was driven by its superb performance in Turkey in Russia and across Eastern Europe as well as in Middle East.
<br>Parliament has a refined luxury image and has benefited from packaging upgrade and the launch of the industry’s first ever re recessed filter capsule product in Korea.
We’re also very pleased with the renewed strength of L&amp;M in 2012.
Volume grew by 4% to 93.7 billion units.<br><br>This growth was driven by increased availability in Egypt.
The long awaited turn around in Russia a strong performance across the bakkens shared gains in Thailand and a higher volume in Turkey.
In the European Union region L&amp;M continued to grow share in this five most important markets namely Slovakia Poland Belgium Germany and  (inaudible).
However this was offset by a shared decline in markets in the Southern part of the Europe largely compensated by share gains on Chesterfields.
On a regional basis L&amp;M share was stable at 6.6% last year.<br><br>Our leading position and our strong share growth momentum in Indonesia give us a unique position in the global tobacco industry.
Based on an expanded Nielsen coverage we have updated our market data on Indonesia.
In 2012 we estimate that the total cigarette industry volume increased by 8.2% to 303 billion units driven by favorable demographics and a strong economy.
We expect continued strong industry volume growth in a range of 5% to 6% going forward.<br><br>Our volume search by 17.5% last year and we expanded our market share from 32.8% to 35.6% a gain of 2.8 share points.
Our strong premium skewed portfolio led by some Sampoerna A and our superior national distribution was reinforced by favorable retail price points.<br><br>I would also like to highlight our strong performance in two email markets our volume in Russia increased by 3.8% last year while total industry volume declined an estimated 1.3% over the same period driven by higher prices.
In 2012 we gained 0.5 percentage share points thanks to the strength of our broadly based portfolio and investments in marketing and sales.
The key drivers of our market share growth were above premium parliaments mid-priced L&amp;M and low price Bond Street and Next.
Importantly we improved our position in the growing slimmer diameter segment.<br><br>Last autumn the Russian parliament approved excised tax increases for 2013 in-line with it's previously published plans.
Subsequently we registered new retail prices with increases of 6 to 7 rubles per pack across our portfolio.
In Turkey total cigarette industry volume grew by 8.8% last year to 99 billion units driven by a reduction in a listed trade trade loading in the fourth quarter of 2012 ahead of a full seen excise tax and price increase.
A weak fourth quarter 2011 growth in the adult population and the strong economic environment.
Our volume increased by 12.7% last year and we expanded our market share by a further 0.9 points to 45.7%.<br><br>At the same time we improved our mix behind the growth of premium parliaments and mid-priced (inaudible).
In January we increased our retail prices by 1 Turkish Lira per pack and responded to the excise tax increase that was announced by the government.
The new excise tax regime now includes a specific element for the very first time.
In contrast the business environment in the Southern part of Europe remains very challenging as illustrated by Italy where unemployment reached 11.1% in November 2012 1.7 above the prior year level.<br><br>In 2012 Italy’s cigarette industry volumes declined by 7.9% as adult smokers impacted by a reduction in purchasing power switched to lower taxed fine cut products and to illicit trade which grew by some 40% and 80% respectively.
However during the year the government reduced the tax differential between fine cut and cigarettes.
Consequently the growth of the fine cut category slowed to less than 2% in the fourth quarter when cigarette volume declined by a more moderate 4%.<br><br>Despite this challenging environment our brands performed strongly in Italy.
Marlboro grew its cigarette market share by 0.6 points to 23.1%.
The growth accelerated in the fourth quarter when its share increased 1.3 points to 23.5%.
We successfully launched Philip Morris Selection in the growing international low-priced segment at the beginning of 2012.
It achieved a 0.5% share for the full year and 0.8% in the fourth quarter.
Finally Chesterfield in addition to holding its own in the cigarette category obtained a 23.5% share of the fine cut category.<br><br>While revenue growth remains the key to success in our business we continue to be very focused on cost controls and productivity gains.
Our adjusted Operating Companies Income margin increased in 2012 from 44.1% to 45.2% excluding currency.
This improvement reflects not only higher pricing but also limited cost increases our success in surpassing our $300 million one year productivity target and our continued efforts to optimize our manufacturing footprint.
This year we are targeting a further $300 million in productivity savings to help offset expected moderate increases in lease and direct materials as well as higher clove costs.
While our business continued to generate growing amounts of cash from higher earnings our free cash flow of $8.4 billion in 2012 was down $1.1 billion or 11.6% excluding currency.
This decline was attributable to higher working capital requirements of $1.7 billion as well as a $220 million increase in capital expenditures.<br><br>The working capital increase was primarily driven by Indonesia where our business growth led to higher tobacco leaf and finished goods inventories and where we took advantage of a larger but admittedly significantly more expensive clove crop to build stocks for future business growth.
In addition we needed to replenish our global tobacco leaf stocks following our unexpectedly large cigarette sales in Japan in 2011.
The increase in capital expenditures is attributable in particular to production capacity increases in the Asia and EEMA regions.<br><br>We anticipate a strong increase in our currency neutral free cash flow in 2013 though we do plan further increases in capital expenditures related notably to additional capacity in Indonesia and to the establishment of next generation products manufacturing capacity.
In addition as has been the case historically forestalling related inventory requirements can fluctuate significantly and are difficult to forecast accurately.
However in 2013 we project that our cash flow growth will exceed that of our earnings growth.<br><br>As you can see on this chart since the 2008 spend we have transformed the higher proportion of our growing net revenues into free cash flow than any of our consumer products in tobacco industry peers.
In September last year we increased our dividend by a further 10.4% bringing the cumulative increase since 2008 to 84.8%.
We initiated a new three-year $18 billion share repurchase program in August of 2012.
Last year in total we spent $6.5 billion to repurchase 74.9 million shares.<br><br>We remain committed to a balanced program of returning cash to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases and we target share repurchases of 6 billion in 2013.
In conclusion we expect to deliver strong results again in 2013? A diluted earnings per share guidance is $5.68 to $5.78 this corresponds to a 10% to 12% growth rate excluding currency compared to our 2012 adjusted diluted earnings per share of $5.22.
This is fully in-line with our mid-to-long term currency neutral annual EPS growth targets which we have achieved or surpassed every year of our existence as an independent public company.<br><br>The excise tax and regulatory environment we believe are manageable.
The pricing environment remains favorable and we have already achieved 75% of the pricing that is baked into our 2013 guidance.
We forecast organic volume growth this year excluding the Philippines.
We have strong growth momentum Marlboro gained share in all four regions parliament achieved double digit volume growth and our business in the Asia and the EMO regions is in great shape.
The EU region remains fragile but we certainly do not anticipate a deterioration thus is the overall consumption trends we observed in 2012.<br><br>We forecast strong free cash flow growth excluding currency this year and we remain committed to generously rewarding our shareholders through attracted dividends and substantial share repurchase programs.<br><br>Since March 2008 we have returned the total of nearly $50 billion to our shareholders and repurchased 23.2% of the shares outstanding at the time of the spend.
Thank you for your attention.
Jacek and I will now be happy to answer your questions.
in the Philippines we have mentioned for some time and that’s baked into our guidance.
I have to say that Southern Europe as I mentioned in my remarks continuous to be fragile as opposed to what others may have said we have actually have not detected a deterioration in trends.
In fact if you look at fourth quarter trends they were better in every single market in the European Union with the exception of Spain and Italy whether you look at it from a total cigarette point of view or cigarette including OTP.
France has been a slightly weaker because of the price increase but we have detected a significant improvement in the trend from October November December and even January now.<br><br>So the watch out is Southern Europe elsewhere we’re in great shape I think David.
I mean Asia and EEMA are growing strongly and growing in a quality manner.
If I look at EEMA alone and you look at their growth 60% of their growth came from pricing and 40% from volume mix which is quite a phenomenal achievement and if you go to Asia pricing was 70% but volume mix contributed 30%.
So I would say we’re in very good shape you have obviously a major competitor domiciled in Japan and with the weakness in the yen there is presumably some prospect that evidence whatsoever David.
In fact I was very encouraged that they increased their earning guidance to reflect the weakness of the yen.
So that’s a positive sign.
And I would say that in terms of pricing just on your volume for 2013 so if I understood you correctly you said Philippines down 20% 25% so that’s probably a negative 2 2.5 points of an impact.
If we assume that the underlying volume trend ex-Philippines kind of stay what we saw in 2012 up 2% ex-Japan we see organic volume growth of about 1% this year excluding the Philippines if you include the Philippines your calculation was right as to the impact of the Philippines was down about 1.5%.
We have had significant price increases in a number of markets.
Russia has been a significant price increase.
It’s being implemented in the market as we speak.
So it’s hard to gorge at this point what will happen in terms of volume.
We don’t anticipate a dramatic deterioration at all but it remains a watch-out.
Southern Europe as I said we believe that the trends are likely to remain the same as last year.
There could be upside Judy but it’s a bit early to call that we will see as the year unfolds and certainly when Jacek takes you through the April – in April through the first quarter we should have a much better read of Europe.
So that’s where we stand you have got now about 55% of the profit coming from sort of the non-OECDs and excluding Japan and Europe and those markets are growing profit double-digits.
So when I think about your long-term growth algorithm 6% to 8% if you can maintain that 55% of your business growing at a double-digit you probably only need flattish kind of growth in Europe and in Japan from an operating profit perspective.
So I guess my question is kind of is there upside to that Europe I think your analysis is very accurate Judy.
We have always said that we feel that European Union one day will come back but we need to see some meaningful assets to get the employment rates back up.
And the economies remain fragile and there is still quite a lot of restructuring to do but we are somewhat optimistic that government seemed to be now weary of the austerity push and are trying to focus a bit more on employment.
So yes if the EU were to improve that would obviously increase our growth capacity.<br><br>As to Japan I would say one of the highlights for me anyway of Japan in 2012 was that the market was relatively stable relative to the secular decline trend that we had witnessed previously.
So we enter the year with a pretty strong market.
Our share as you noticed increased sequentially from the third to the fourth quarter so we hit 27.7% which admittedly was lower than our exit share in 2011 but if I look at our January share in Japan it was 28.3% so Japan volume I think has so that’s helpful.
I guess I also have a question on Asian and specifically Indonesia very impressive growth as you highlighted for us.
So you know as I look back at some of my modeling work you know it looks like your profits in Indonesia can actually soon surpass the profits you generate in Japan.
So my first question is you know what’s a realistic growth forecast for this market in Indonesia and then could you maybe touch on potential opportunities you have in Thailand I think one day yes that is very possible.
You know it also relates to Judies question earlier you know the market in Indonesia has been growing at more than 8% back in 2011 and 2012.
This year we forecast a growth of 5% to 6%.
I think that also translates into higher pricing because cloth cost have increased significantly and they have increased for every player in the industry.
We see our variable costs increasing by about 3.5% going forward and half of that half the increase to total company relates to cloth cost so that will require pricing in Indonesia which may somewhat temporarily slow down the growth we have seen in the past couple of years.
Having said that we continue to feel optimistic that we will continue to gain share essentially all our brands gain share in 2012 so we have momentum.<br><br>So yes Indonesia is a jewel.
As to the rest of Asia we don’t see a major acceleration there has been equalization on fine cut.
So people – tax equalization on fine cut in number of places so people are moving back to cigarettes as I showed in Italy in my remarks.
Illicit trade continues to be a concern.
Our census last year it was about 11.1% of consumption relative to 10.4% in the previous year.
So we continue but there is still a lot of work to be done on risk assessment as well as clearly on the regulatory front.
In the meantime as I alluded to in my remarks we will be starting investments in setting up manufacturing capacity to those products I know Australia is a very small market for you as you know it was implemented effective December 1 there was a bit of turbulence in the market.
Retailers in particular found it very difficult to adapt.
Some of our competitors were slightly out of stock.
So our share was actually quite strong in December but all the daily sales we see and the research we’ve done there appears to be no change whatsoever in terms of sales levels incidence or brand choice.
Having said that it is still very very early days.
And we’ll see what happens over a long-term period.
And I think other governments will watch the Australian example very carefully.
And my sense is that wisdom would dictate that people would look at the Australian example before they take on this policy measure in terms of the BIT claim that is proceeding essentially according to schedule.
We still feel that the merits of our case is very strong but it will be a two-year process Erik.
There is not much more than I can say on that.
The arbitration panel has been formed.
The procedural elements have been set up.
And now there is a whole schedule of our claim being filed and then the responses from the government and then hearing et cetera but as I said it will be a two year process.
On the WTO aspect that claim is proceeding.
The very interesting thing is that there are some 31 countries that have asked for observer status including such major countries as China and I’m told that that is probably the highest ever level of countries that have asked for observer status which shows the interest there is on this issue in terms of plain packaging and the violation of trademark rights.<br><br>With regard to the European TPD on NGP is still early days Erik I mean that appears to be quite a robust market in terms of up trading I think over the last couple of years it has declined by 10 share points and that’s moving up to what we call value made and premium more recently premium as sort of been flattish.
As you know there has been quite a significant price increase as I mentioned earlier prices are actually coming into effect in the market as we speak.
The percentage gap between low value and premium actually is going to narrow and empirical evidence would suggest from various other markets that when the percentage gap comes down or narrows that generally actually helps up trading.
So we don’t really anticipate any change in the trend and we certainly anticipate continued shared growth with Parliament.
With regard to Marlboro as you know we have put in a number of new products to enhance the brand equity of the brands we said it would take quite a long time.
Share has been pretty well flat over the last four months which is already an improvement over the erosion the brand has suffered in the past with the increase and the unemployment and the rates declined that we have seen in volumes I think it's really purchasing power has declined quite considerably so people are looking for cheaper alternatives.
Governments have noticed that and they are trying to both equalize the tax burden on fine cut and cigarettes to protect their revenues and also there is clearly a renewed effort to try to fight contraband and especially the advent of illicit rights and counterfeit.
It’s actually quite ironic that the European Union Tobacco Products Directive when tobacco product represents some 11% of consumption in Europe they want to ban slims and menthol that are about 10% of consumption.
That’s the size of the French market or the Spanish market in fact slightly higher.
So there is a lot to be done on this TBD just regarding the exports are going to Japan we try to hedge it occasionally.
And this year we have hedged 50% of our exposure.
We did it several months ago so obviously at attractive rates relative to the spot rate.
Nevertheless we still have 50% exposure on the remaining balance we know about it the trade load in the fourth quarter I think you mentioned out there just sort of 60 basis points.
So okay I just had two questions for you.
The first one a bit of a follow-on there to Jonathan’s question regarding the inventory overall helped your volume in the quarter and then I have a follow-up question for you also about the EU and it’s just kind of a bigger picture question if you will.
In the current environment that we are in where you have volumes going down at a more aggressive rate you have had some pretty good price realizations still to help to offset that.
I guess I am just curious maybe it’s just from a fixed cost standpoint or what you need to do to help keep profitability flat or even growing that market first Chris we don’t see a deterioration in the volume trends.
And your question was premised on a sort of more aggressive down trend which we really don’t see.
And as I mentioned to Judy earlier there maybe upside but it’s a bit early to call.
With regard to cost structure we have always been very careful to ensure that we are as cost efficient as possible.
Our European factories supply a number of markets.
So can you talk a little bit about I guess the Cadence of new products flow we think we have a pretty good program in place for 2013.
Our launch is in 2012 we’re pretty successful so we actually believe we can continue to gain share in Japan you know we said that the exit share was the base on which to go forward you know that was probably an ambitious target because you know JT probably hadn’t gone back to it's normal share but certainly the January trend looks very favorable and given the product innovation we have going forward we see opportunity it's been a while I think for your point since you’ve seen it normalized volume number I realize it's early and it could certainly fluctuate but with currency being such a headwind last year it's a little surprising that your guidance would be less than you did already was there some other we felt it stock price was clearly very undervalued I think possibly because of some sort of regulatory concerns or profit taking so we took the opportunity to buy more shares what we thought was a very attractive price.
It's I think a very generous target and then just looking at your business in Korea it looks like your 4Q share was a little less than your full year share but I know there is an uneven pacing there so clearly January February we had a high share and we suffered after the price increase.
However our share has essentially been flat at about for the last I would say seven months.
So in terms of share we are in relatively good shape in Korea.
What needs to happen in Korea is a reform of excise taxes and there are various proposals in legislature.
As you know I mean in the meantime do you have anything else that could bridge the gap like innovation pipeline or something else that could help share besides more narrow share gaps most definitely we have a program in place to launch some pretty exciting new products as we did last year.
So our ambition is to gain share.
Our profitability in Korea increased significantly last year because of our price increase.
And I think our brand equity remains very strong in particular though with Parliament.
And as I mentioned in my remarks that’s helpful.
And then in Indonesia you share gains last year obviously were pretty significant but you have several years where that’s been the case? And I love to get a sense for what a sustainable trajectory looks like? Is the source of share primarily the 20% to 25% of the category that’s small fragmented players so that you have got a sort of a deep pool from what you can continue to draw or what are some of the dynamics there that’s certainly one of the sources especially as the government continues to narrow the various tax tiers in the tax metrics but I would say that our major competitive advantage is the investments we have made in our distribution infrastructure and field forces and in terms of our brand equities.
So we feel very good about our share performance in the past and our future prospects for share growth.
I would also say that because of the strength of the economy there is clearly an up-trading trend and our share in the upper price segment is significantly higher than our total share of the market.
So we have then grown share growth built-in as those trends continue.
And we see no reason why they should not continue.
As you are probably aware they dramatically increased minimum wage rates in Indonesia recently.
So I know an endorsement or approval or whatever the proper term is from the FDA would be sort of a passport to just about any market but given the unpredictability of this administration in particular or just they don’t seem to be in any rush to support tobacco companies so what are the options without that how big of a hurdle is it to have that clearly the FDA would be very helpful and we have engaged with the FDA but it is not a pre-condition to launching these products elsewhere.
We are in discussions with regulators in various jurisdictions.
So that is an ongoing effort that’s parallel to the one that’s going on with the FDA.
FDA support will clearly be very helpful what’s your level of confidence for this 20% to 25% volume impact if I remember correctly the volume impact in Japan was supposed to be somewhat turn out to be much less dramatic Well you know I would hope it would follow the Japanese example I think the Philippines is doing well economically worker remittance is continued to increase.
So the macros look quite favorable nevertheless it's a significant price increase.
My concern Thilo is really the advent of contraband and as you know there is a lot of contraband product in other categories in the Philippines and also potentially tax avoidance by some of the other players which we have seen in the past.
So hopefully the government can plan down on that they have said that they would have institute of very strict product tracking and tracing systems at the manufacturing end.
Listen today as I said in my remarks it's a hard one to call you look at tax increases in the Philippines Indonesia stood out in the first half first as if they remain the bright spot in Q4 Turkey Indonesia Mexico Brazil pretty well everywhere at the moment.
Philippines was somewhat distorted because there was trade loading by the competitors but we see if I look at Vietnam Malaysia have you not see any sequential deterioration in volume trends.
It looks like the total market was down 7% in Q4 there will continue to be a ramp up that was in ‘12 and there is actually going to be what we forecast a considerable ramp up in 2013 of the Be Marlboro campaign and all the consumer engagement try to engage programs that we have as they are slowly rolled out across the world.
In terms of JT the partial privatization I think nobody is quite aware of the timing and we’ll see when that happens.
It may trigger JT’s desire to increase prices or enhance their ability to do so.
If JT were to increase prices that will be terrific news and yes how do you incorporate that into your outlook great.
And then I always like to ask about leaf cost and listening to your comments about expecting moderate increase in leaf prices in ‘13 is that trend in pricing in line with your expectations following your vertical integration move thank you very much for joining us.
That does conclude our call for today.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact the IR team.
We are currently in New York today and tomorrow.
And just as a reminder our next presentation will be at the Consumer Analyst Group of New York or CAGNY Conference in Boca Raton Florida on Wednesday February 20 and that presentation will also be webcast.
So Good day and welcome to the Philip Morris International first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Today's call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Philip Morris International management and the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Media representatives on the call will also be invited to ask questions at the conclusion of questions from the investment community.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Nick Rolli Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Welcome.
Thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we issued a press release containing detailed information on our 2013 first quarter results.
You may access the release on our website at www.pmi.com.
During our call today we will be talking about results for the first quarter of 2013 and comparing them to the same periods in 2012 unless otherwise stated.
References to volumes or to PMI shipments industry volume and market shares are the latest data available from a number of internal and external sources.
Organic volume refers to volume excluding acquisitions.
Net revenues exclude excise taxes.
Operating companies' income or OCI is defined as operating income before general corporate expenses and the amortization of intangibles.
You will find data tables showing adjustments to net revenues and OCI for currency acquisitions asset impairment exit and other costs free cash flow calculations and adjustments to earnings per share or EPS as well as reconciliations to U.S.
GAAP measures at the back of this presentation which is also posted on our website.
Today's remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results.
I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statements disclosure in today's presentation and press release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections or forward-looking statements.
It's now my pleasure to introduce Jacek Olczak our Chief Financial Officer.
Thank you Nick and welcome ladies and gentlemen.
We had a relatively sound start to the year when one considers the difficult comparison with a very strong first quarter last year.
Our business fundamentals continue to be solid and we have good momentum in key markets and segments.
In February we provided a reported diluted EPS guidance for 2013 of $5.68 to $5.78.
We see no reason to change our guidance today due to business factors.
However we have witnessed increased currency volatility and in particular a weakening of the Euro and the Yen due to the economic crisis in Europe and changes in economic policy in Japan.
Accordingly at prevailing exchange rates we now forecast a full-year unfavorable currency impact of approximately $0.19 per share rather than the $0.06 cents included in our previous guidance.
Our revised reported diluted EPS guidance for 2013 is therefore $5.55 to $5.65 compared to $5.17 in 2012.
This reflects a growth rate excluding currency of approximately 10% to 12% compared to our adjusted diluted EPS of $5.22 in 2012.
This is matching the growth rate that we announced in February.
This is fully in line with our mid to long-term currency neutral annual growth target highlighting the continued strength of our underlying business model and the robustness of our growth algorithm.
Let me now take you through our first-quarter results and provide you with our outlook for some of our key markets.
Organic volume in the first quarter was down by 2.1% excluding the Philippines.
This reflects three main factors.
First we had a difficult comparison with a very strong first quarter last year when organic volume grew by 5.3% year-on-year.
This was helped by the leap-year.
Second there was a reversal of trade inventory build-ups that took place in several markets during the fourth quarter of 2012 ahead of expected tax and price increases notably impacted Turkey.
Third cigarette markets in the EU region continue to be influenced by the economic crisis and high unemployment levels.
I would nevertheless like to highlight the fact that excluding the Philippines we achieved organic volume growth this quarter in the Asia and EEMA regions and continue to expect organic volume growth on a global basis for the full-year of 2013.
The decline in our volume and the overall difficult comparisons with the prior year impacted our financial results in the first quarter of this year.
Net revenues and adjusted OCI were up by 3.2% and 2.9% respectively excluding currency and acquisitions.
Despite this our adjusted diluted EPS performance excluding currency was solid with growth of 8.8%.
Pricing continues to be the key driver of our income performance.
Our pricing variance in the first quarter reached $531 million significantly higher than that achieved during the same quarter last year Since October we have notably increased prices in Argentina Australia Brazil France Mexico the Netherlands the Philippines Poland Russia Saudi Arabia Serbia Spain Turkey Ukraine and the U.K.
In addition last week we announced new prices in Germany.
The favorable pricing environment is backed by the strength of our brand portfolio and supported by an excise tax environment which with the exception of the Philippines has been rational and characterized by structural improvements.
Our market share growth momentum continued in the first quarter with gains in three of our four regions and the Asia region essentially stable excluding the Philippines.
Marlboro volume excluding the Philippines was down by 2.2% in the first quarter driven by cigarette industry volume declines in the EU.
Nevertheless Marlboro market share increased or was essentially stable in all four regions excluding the Philippines.
Marlboro achieved notable share gains of 0.7 and 0.8 points respectively in the EU and the Latin America and Canada regions during the quarter.
Our above-premium Parliament continues to show great momentum with a volume increase in the quarter of 5.4% this despite the trade inventory reversal in Turkey.
Parliament continued to gain share in its key markets of Kazakhstan Russia Turkey and Ukraine while making further inroads in the Middle East.
L&amp;M volume increased by 4.3% in the first quarter of this year driven by its positive momentum in the EEMA Region and a resilient share performance in the EU Region.
Three markets stand out namely Egypt Russia and Saudi Arabia and I would be also pleased by L&amp;M’s renewed growth in Russia.
Let me now review what is happening in key geographies.
Let's start with the EU.
The situation in the EU has attracted considerable attention given the region’s high level of profitability and the depth and duration of the economic crisis.
Consumer products companies have been suffering as average unemployment levels reached double digits and continue to grow.
The key driver of our 10.1% decline in cigarette volume in the EU Region during the first quarter was the decrease in industry volume of 10.5% with a notably steep decline in southern European markets.
This decline was exacerbated by unfavorable trade inventory movements and fewer selling days.
Let me also remind you that the first quarter was the strongest for cigarette industry volume in the region last year.
While overall tobacco consumption levels remain fairly stable there continues to be down-trading to cheaper fine cut proposition and to illicit trade.
Fine cut industry volume increased by 2.1% in the first quarter while the latest EU-wide study indicates that the level of illicit trade has climbed to 11.1% from 10.4% a year earlier.
Taking the distortions of the first quarter into consideration and based on our analysis of current expectations for the remaining three quarters we continue to forecast that cigarette industry volume for the full-year 2013 in the EU Region should decline broadly in line with that of last year.
We are encouraged by our market share gains in the EU Region.
Our share was up by 0.7 points to 38.1% though I should mention that this was partially flattered by the impact of competitive trade inventory movement.
We gained share in our five most important EU cigarette markets namely Italy Poland France Germany and Spain.
We also gained share in some of the smaller markets such as Finland the Netherlands and Hungary while market share declined notably in Greece the Baltics Denmark and Portugal.
Our four key brands continued to perform well highlighting our strong business fundamentals.
However our volume was hampered by the prevailing very weak economic conditions.
Marlboro’s regional share increased in the first quarter by 0.7 points to 18.7% as the brand performed well in its five largest markets.
L&amp;M’s share was stable at 6.6%.
Chesterfield’s share was up by 0.2 points to 3.7% driven by markets such as Austria Portugal and Spain as well as geographic expansion.
Finally the Philip Morris brand gained 0.3 points to reach 1.9% thanks to its continued growth momentum in France and the success of Philip Morris Selection in Italy.
While the overall growth of the fine cut category slowed down in the first quarter we again outperformed the competition with an in-market sales volume increase of 7.6%.
We are continuing to successfully roll out fine cut variants of our leading cigarette brands Marlboro L&amp;M and Chesterfield into new markets.
As a result we increased our category share by 0.7 points to 14.1% and captured 48% of the additional industry volume.
Let me now focus on two of the most important markets in the EU Region namely Italy and Germany.
The economic downturn in Italy has been severe with a decrease in real GDP of 2% last year and an increase in unemployment from 10.1% in February 2012 to 11.6% a year later.
This has resulted in a decline in consumer purchasing power which we believe was the main driver of the 9.5% decrease in cigarette industry volume in the first quarter of this year.
The second important factor has been an increase in illicit trade the incidence of which doubled year-on-year.
The fine cut category meanwhile no longer grew following the reduction in the excise tax and price differential with cigarettes that took place in the middle of last year.
We believe that the rate of decline of cigarette industry volume in Italy should moderate during the remainder of the year.
However this is contingent upon the elimination of the previously planned July VAT increase.
The underlying fundamentals of our business in Italy remain strong.
Our cigarette market share grew by 0.6 points in the quarter to 53.2% as the continued momentum of Marlboro and the success of Philip Morris Selection in the international low-price segment more than offset the decline of Merit and Diana.
We are also continuing to gain share in the fine cut category with an increase of 3.3 points in the first quarter to 30.5% thanks notably to the successful recent launch of Marlboro fine cut.
German market was distorted in the first quarter by the leap year effect trade inventory movements and an increase in border sales.
While cigarette industry volume was 6.6% lower in the quarter we estimate that the underlying decline was a more moderate 2.8%.
During this period fine cut industry volume increased by 1.2%.
The German economy continues to be resilient with low unemployment and this has translated into more robust overall tobacco market trends including a recovery in the premium cigarette segment.
Our business is in a good shape with our cigarette market share slightly higher at 36.1%.
Marlboro grew by 1.5 points in the quarter to 22.3% and achieved its highest cigarette share since the fourth quarter of 2009.
This confirms the positive response to our new Marlboro initiatives.
While L&amp;M’s cigarette share declined by 0.7 points to 10.5% this reflected timing as the brand’s share is sequentially stable.
Importantly we have consolidated our leading position among Young Adult Smokers with a 20% share for L&amp;M and a 17% share for Marlboro.
Last week we announced to the trade an increase in our cigarette retail prices of essentially €0.20 per 19 cigarettes across our total portfolio.
This should come into effect at retail in May.
I will now turn to Asia where we are continuing to strengthen our business.
Our organic volume grew by 2.8% excluding the Philippines during the first quarter.
Indonesia was a key contributor.
Our cigarette volume increased by 4.9% in Indonesia during the first quarter of 2013.
We again achieved a strong share performance with a gain of 1.4 points to 36.3%.
As anticipated the rate of growth has moderated as certain brands are being impacted by the crossing of key price thresholds in line with our strategy of regular price increases.
Our share gains were driven by the continued strong performance of premium Sampoerna A which was up by 0.8 points and by mid-price U Mild which was up by 1.2 points.
Marlboro meanwhile expanded its share of the white non-kretek segment by 4 points to 75%.
Industry volume was up only slightly during the quarter after a 13.9% surge in the same period last year.
For the full year we are forecasting a growth rate of around 5% to 6% in line with the current 12-month moving average.
The resilience of the Indonesian economy continued improvements in consumer purchasing power and the growth of the adult population underpin the continued industry volume expansion.
In Japan cigarette industry volume decreased by 3.2% during the first quarter and we forecast an underlying decline of around 2% for the full year in line with recent trends in adult smoking incidence.
Our shipment volume increased by 6.9% reflecting favorable distributor inventory movements.
Intense competitive product and marketing activities notably around Japan Tobacco's morphing of Mild Seven into Mevius impacted the Lark and Philip Morris brands.
As a result PMI reached a first quarter market share of 27.5% 0.2 points below that of the last quarter of 2012.
Marlboro meanwhile maintained its share.
We believe that the recent launch of Lark Ice Mint 5mg and 1mg a natural mint 100mm product and the planned launch in May of Marlboro W-Burst 5 a double capsule menthol innovation should enable us to resume a more positive share trend.
In the Philippines the disproportionate tax increase that took place in January has as expected caused significant market disruption.
In January we increased our recommended retail prices of key brands by 60% to 70%.
However the price of individual cigarettes set by the trade which account for about 70% of total retail sales increased by a larger amount in numerous outlets.
In the first quarter our volume declined by 42.5% reflecting the consumer reaction to the higher prices the prior-year trade inventory build-up and the impact of the new prices on the trade’s working capital requirements.
Cigarette industry shipments are estimated based on Bureau of Internal Revenue data to have been down by 39%.
However Nielsen consumer off-take and our market research data indicate that cigarette consumption was down significantly less.
The difference reflects the aforementioned trade inventory movements and in particular a surge in illicit trade.
In March we saw a sequential improvement in volume and provided the government is successful in its efforts to improve excise tax administration we still believe that industry volume should decline by about 20% to 25% for the full-year 2013.
We expect some share erosion due to aggressive competitor pricing at the bottom end of the market.
Let me now turn to the EEMA Region where we achieved a 1.4% volume growth in the first quarter of the year.
This strong result was driven by share gains in Eastern Europe the Middle East and North Africa and favorable distributor inventory movements in Russia partly offset by the anticipated reversal of the December trade inventory build-up in Turkey.
In Russia cigarette industry volume declined by about 5.5%.
This was due to recent tax-driven price increases of RUB 6 to RUB 7 a pack which corresponded to between 9% for Parliament to 22% increase for Optima.
In line with previous years we expect this decline to moderate once adult consumers adjust to the higher prices.
We estimate that the total market will be down by around 3% on a full-year basis.
Our volume increase of 1.8% in the first quarter reflected the timing of shipments to our distributor.
Our market share during the first two months of the year was stable at 26.2% with gains from above-premium Parliament mid-price L&amp;M and low-price Bond Street and Next offset by declines from mid-price Chesterfield and super-low price Optima.
Turkey is an example of a market where a strong underlying performance was distorted by specific dynamics in the first quarter of this year.
There were significant increases in trade inventory levels in the fourth quarter of 2012 that were reversed following tax-driven price increases at the beginning of 2013.
As a result while cigarette industry volume declined by 11.6% year-on-year the underlying market showed a slightly positive trend thanks to lower levels of illicit trade.
On a full-year basis we forecast that underlying industry volume should be relatively stable.
Our volume was down by 17.4% in the quarter as we were disproportionately impacted by the trade inventory movements.
Our market share in the first two months of the year was up slightly to 44.7% as premium Parliament and mid-price Muratti continued their growth momentum while Lark and L&amp;M lost ground to competitive brands that were priced lower at the bottom end of the market.
In conclusion we expect to deliver strong results again in a very challenging year.
We remain confident that despite another difficult year ahead in the EU Region we should be able to generate organic cigarette volume growth on a global basis excluding the Philippines.
We expect this year to again achieve the financial targets of our mid to long-term currency neutral annual growth algorithm.
Our new reported diluted 2013 earnings per share guidance includes the latest currency rate and is $5.55 to $5.65.
This reflects a full-year growth rate of approximately 10% to 12% excluding currency compared to our 2012 adjusted diluted EPS of $5.22.
I should point out that we foresee our growth will be skewed towards the second half of the year We anticipate strong free cash flow growth excluding currency in 2013.
We remain committed to rewarding our shareholders through attractive dividends and substantial share repurchase programs.
We will continue to judiciously invest to reinforce the long-term prospects of our business.
In the first quarter we spent another $1.5 billion in share repurchases.
Since March 2008 we have returned a total of over $50 billion to our shareholders and repurchased 24% of the shares outstanding at the time of the spin.
Thank you.
And I will now be happy to answer your questions.
Thank you.
We will now conduct the question-and-answer portion of the conference.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Chris Ferrara of Bank of America.
Thank you.
So it sounds like you are broadly reiterating industry volume projections for the year in most places like the EU and like Indonesia.
Despite what was a pretty poor volume quarter so I guess the question is was Q1 volume worse than you had expected or was it pretty much in line with what you thought it was going to be? Well taking into consideration you remember in February we said that we had about 75% of the pricing already implemented or announced for the year which was pretty high compared to other first quarters in the years before.
I think it was rather expected that usually after the price increases there is this initial sort of dip in the market and then the markets are coming to some sort of recovery.
So this was not unexpected but you also remember I mean in the first quarter for PMI in total but also specifically for EU first quarter of 2012 was a pretty strong quarter.
We've been almost growing at the 6% PMI and EU had just a decline of 1.5% in the first quarter of 2012.
So no I don't think we had any surprise in the performance in the first quarter.
Thanks.
I guess what I am trying to get to is whether -- how you feel about the 10 to 12 on a constant currency and whether Q1 represents just a little bit more of an obstacle relative to getting to that number but you just still had the flexibility to get there or whether there really is no change and you still feel like you are in the same place within that guidance range of 10 to 12 that you were before? No.
I mean we are very confident about the guidance.
As you noticed we are revising the guidance -- the February guidance only for the currency.
So I think the business fundamentals are very strong.
The brand’s portfolio performance essentially all of our main markets are pretty solid.
We had some distortions in the quarter which I have been mentioning in my remarks.
The only thing which I would like to add is that I mean we clearly are looking in the second half of the year to be somehow stronger than the first half of the year.
For a number of reasons we have in our annualization of some increased spending behind mainly marketing and sales from the last year which is going to have an impact on us especially in the first half of the year.
There are still some inventory distortions which will continue through the second quarter of this year but all in all I mean we feel pretty confident about the guidance.
I mean all the risks which we knew are there I mean EU volumes EU pressure on the volume also Philippines the initial impact are included or baked in our guidance.
And as I said I mean we are pretty confident on a 10% to 12% growth for this year.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer of Citi.
I am curious as we think about Italy I recognize your guidance reflects no VAT increase.
Can you speak to the probability of no VAT increase occurring and conversely if you do see an increase how would that impact potentially your guidance for EU volumes? Well I will maybe start with the second part of your question.
I think we are still at this stage despite the 10% decline of the reported volumes in EU for the first quarter.
We still think broadly the rate of decline for the full year will be in a range of that which we had last year so 6.3% if I remember correct.
The underlying volume decline in the EU Region for the first quarter we estimate will come in the range of 8% if I eliminate some distortions  which were in the quarter.
Italy is essentially the only market or the main market which we will have on the watch list in EU as we still don’t have a clarity what's going to happen with the announced VAT increase.
If we follow the politicians' announcement no one regardless of the party they belong to would like to have the VAT increase.
However in order for that wish to materialize they have to form the government and they have to change some legislation.
So we will have to watch how the situation unfolds in Italy.
But I think with the exception of the VAT increase in Italy I think that EU still can be broadly with the rate of decline that’s comparable to last year.
Fair enough.
As a follow-up to that can you comment perhaps on your outlook for operating income growth in the EU? I think you have said in the past you could hold your EBIT flat but considering the significant trade down that you are seeing in the market I wonder whether that needs to be adjusted downward at all? Well it is very much dependent again on the total volume development in the EU.
If news from Italy is positive I think we can maintain all the profitability.
If Italy talks will happen then it depends on the pricing [attractions] (ph) that might have some impact on the profitability in the EU.
But assuming my forecast our estimate for the total EU volumes to be broadly in line of the rate of decline of the last year would hold I think we can maintain the profitability.
Your next question comes from the line of David Adelman of Morgan Stanley.
On the EU with weaker volumes not just for you but obviously for the competitors are you seeing any change or an increase in competitive intensity companies going more for share than they might have a year ago or is it fairly stable? No.
whatsoever.
I mean we had that pricing in quite a number of markets at the very beginning of January or towards the end of the last year.
So on the pricing side I haven’t observed anything.
No I don’t think there is any risk of that nature.
Okay and then in the Philippines you mentioned to get to 20% to 25% declines in volume for the year.
You need the government to crackdown on the non-duty paid dynamic.
But that’s been a historical factor in the market.
Is there any evidence that with prices up and the illicit volumes growing that the government is taking that any more seriously than it has in the past? I think there was that problem historically.
You are absolutely right.
Historically we had some problems with some non-duty paid domestic product.
However that thing essentially exploded since new tax kicked in and we increased the prices.
As I said if we look at the consumption trends I mean our estimate of the consumption trend in the Philippines at the moment as we speak so this is still relatively early after the new prices hit the market.
I would argue that the consumption decline is in the lower range of 20% to 25% decline which we foresee for the market for the full-year.
The smoking incidents stays relatively flat at 50% actually flat at 50%.
As we do observe  some decline in the daily consumption you know the daily consumption market is very much driven by stick purchases about 70% of the volume goes on the stick purchase and we see the daily consumption drop from 13 to 12 sticks per day.
So you add these numbers together you are actually in the lower range of 20% to 25% decline.
We see our shipments volume and the industry volumes as estimated by the Bureau of Internal Revenues and we have a huge gap to reconcile.
Okay.
We see the volumes in the market so they are clearly coming from the illicit sources.
Okay.
And then just lastly Jacek  on cash flow you reiterated the objective of having a growth year-on-year currency-neutral and free cash flow but it's down quite substantially in the first quarter.
I think that's the second consecutive first quarter with a substantial decline in cash flow.
Can you just speak to what happened in the discrete first-quarter cash flow? Why is it down and then you know what is going to be different in the remainder of the year? Thanks.
I think the developments on the finished goods receivables and the tax payables excise tax payables connected with corresponding volumes build up inventories they actually improved.
We had one-off items you like which was the timing of the payment of the withholding stocks on the profit which were to the U.S.
which happen to take place in the first quarter of this year.
If I take that that item out actually my free cash flow would be up so we're still confident that the free cash flow for the full year can grow actually at the higher rate than our revenues.
So debt repayment cash outflow was later in the year last year last year and it was in the first quarter this year? Happens to be.
It will take place in the first quarter of this year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
A couple of questions in Asia so first just in terms of your margin performance there clearly you had the impact of the Philippines volume there but you had pretty strong volume in Japan as a result of the inventory movement but the margins were still down.
So can you just help us understand the margin performance in Asia in Q1? I think it is mostly driven by Indonesia the cost pressure the closed prices the raw material which we are using very manufacturing significantly increased over the last period so we had the pressure of that and pricing in Indonesia has a tendency to be build over the year rather than just at the beginning of the year so usually we had a slower start.
I mean you have a cost pressure coming from Indonesia and at the beginning we cannot offset it fully by the price and I think this should disappear during the year and actually Asia should be able to improve the margins for the full-year.
Okay.
Then in Japan I think you called out share was down a little bit called out the increased promotional activities from your competitor.
So can you just elaborate sort of the nature of those promotional activities? How much do you think that that's in part driven by the currency movement that's giving and JT more of the cost advantage in that market and do you think that that will continue to put a little bit more competitive pressure in your business and how you are sort of responding to that? Difficult for me to comment how JT's allocating their resources but clearly the marketing promotional spend both in terms of the new product introductions and the promotional support of existing products in the market from JT in first quarter was massive.
And to that extent yes we lost some share on the Lark and Philip Morris.
However on a positive note I haven't seen the Marlboro losing adult in a share.
So frankly speaking I would read it as a positive on Marlboro that despite is a very high spend from a JT remain the market share of Marlboro but I have to admit that Lark and put into lark and Philip Morris yet they contributed to summarize in the overall share.
We have launched two Lark brands towards the end of the quarter so we don't see them in the quarter to innovative custom product behind the Lark and we also announced launch of the new Marlboro highly innovative the first two capsule product which will hit the market somewhere May-June.
Our ambition is still to grow the share in Japan but as I said we are confronted with the most expense from the JT.
Okay.
And then just lastly in Australia just following the implementation of plain packaging what kind of consumption performance or trends are you seeing? And then what is happening in terms of your actual volume? Okay in Australia we are roughly four months since the introduction of plain packaging.
At this early stage the Australian market has not yet shown any significant changes in consumer purchasing behavior.
The volumes in the quarter were stable and this compared actually with the 4% decline which tool place in the first quarter of last year.
This stable volume I believe reflect the impact of disruptions in connection with the transition to the plain packaging last December and there were some evidence with deflation et cetera when manufacturers had to replace the old parts with the new parts.
Frankly speaking based on the first quarter data it would appear that consumer down trading might have accelerated slightly but this trend however has been a part of the Australian market for several years where the consumers are showing a bit more sensitivity to the rate of tax and the price increases.
As you remember in February this year there was a price increase I think of around 4% in the market.
So if take all of these things together in short I think at this moment the impact of plain packaging itself is not yet evident in the market.
Your next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
I just wanted to ask a little bit about price (inaudible).
Maybe if you could give us some color on whether or not down trading pressures are increasing for your non-OECP markets.
What's going on broadly with some of your price cuts and then your outlook for this as the year progresses? No frankly speaking I don’t see that much of a pressure on the down trading.
It will have to take the EU out of the equation although as you have noticed (inaudible) continues quarter-on-quarter growth in the EU even in Germany recently.
We see that the there the actually the premium segment is slightly growing.
It is a phenomenon which we have not seen for a long time.
Outside EU there are different forms of up trading.
You see the premium segment growing in a number of markets.
Indonesia Turkey Vietnam big or small market.
Russia more up trading is happening from the low price segment to the new price segment.
I think the premium segment in Russia is flat as we more or less have seen it over the year.
So no I don’t think it is that that much of the risks to us and worries which will come from the down trading.
As you have seen in the Marlboro and Parliament I should mention they are growing across all geographies.
Okay that’s good.
Then in terms of Japan could you touch on what you think the likelihood for price increase ahead of the consumption tax increase and April 2014 is (inaudible) what sort of necessary steps and timing of getting this to happen in the country? Japan still is a market where there is sort of price control in to light.
This would require the consent of Ministry of Finance and as you know we are not the market leader on this market.
So not necessarily we are calling the shot there.
So there also we have to see whatever the tax announcement of the tax the sale price increases at the beginning of the next year will happen because we also hear some news that maybe government want to change the policy.
Nothing concrete but we will have to see that unfolds.
Okay and then just my final question would be on NGP and just maybe an update on some of the progress again compared with your clinical trials and then recently the ATU has talked about their less harmful cigarettes and then their strategy to transfer their technology to their existing cigarettes.
So I guess not necessarily new lines but I would like it if you could talk about your approach with your NGP and then how you plan on rolling that out and how you will address that either with your brand franchise or new lines and further pros and cons of these strategies? Well we are progressing as per planned.
With the clinical the regulator engagement and also with being ready to finally start building our manufacturing capability.
As you remember we have a three platforms of NGPs which we are working on potentially simultaneously.
I believe all of them altogether should address all consumers' needs which are in the market.
Our fundamentals of common denominator behind the [platforms] is we are not going for the selective reduction of a small constituent we just want to bring the level the old constituents down so we focus on the reduction of changing the process from the combustions for heating etcetera so that is our approach and we feel pretty confident about it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Leinster of UBS.
Just quickly Eastern Europe Middle East Africa and Latin America Canada region both seem to have surprisingly strong price mix particularly given the sort of geography of where the volume growth is being in South Africa.
Can you explain why that is? Potentially the of North Africa so Egypt other locations as well.
We are also benefiting from some disruptions which we had on our supply chain especially at the beginning of the last year.
As you remember there were some disturbances connected with springs affects us but once we brought the stability to our supply chain our brands are in a full distribution I mean they clearly reaping benefits of this.
I think in Latin America price increase which we taken in Brazil.
I think there was pricing in the Mexico at the beginning of the year pricing in Argentina.
I think in the first quarter I think all together this contributes to the stronger pricing contribution coming from this and also the volumes as I mentioned North Africa especially.
Just with regards if you ignore the Philippines and look at the sort of various trade inventory movements that have occurred in the first quarter because obviously there's positives in Japan Russia and negatives in Turkey and Ukraine.
I mean excluding the Philippines is that being a net benefit to sales line or negative? No.
I think it's positive from Japan and positive in Russia and there's essentially two places where we had positive.
I think still the negatives would offset this so that had a drag on quarter rather than a benefit if you like in a quarter.
Your pricing in the quarter was very strong.
I mean at that rate do you think you would be able to exceed this to 1.8 billion from last year in cost variance? For obvious reasons I cannot comment about the future pricing but yes I mean as the quarter indicates indicate that the pricing is strong and is obviously supported also by the pretty pragmatic if I [say] so tax regimes.
I mean again excluding the Philippines which we discuss separately.
So you know it's a good pricing environment and that would have a stronger pricing volume.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe of Stifel.
Hi.
Good morning.
I just had a couple of country related questions for you Jacek.
The first one is in relation to the Philippines.
I just was curious about two factors.
One would be that you are seeing some low price competition and I guess I was curious is Fortune not going to lower prices or get more promotional work to read that.
Then related to that Marlboro did relatively well so I am just curious as to price gaps and it was very early there but the price gaps are at all allowing for some better performance of premium brands.
Well as we said unfortunate thing about the Philippines Stock Exchange is the magnitude of the change in a short period of time the magnitude of an increase.
However immigration of the reductions to [TOs] on a full specific system they do support it the narrow the price gaps narrow.
So clearly Marlboro going forward should benefit from closer of the gaps in a relative terms.
When it comes to the lower price competition I think we have to remember about one thing.
Philippines is a big pricing market okay? So dollars can cut the prices on their own in the outlet.
There are about 1 million outlets in Philippines out of which we have about a quarter roughly about a quarter so what our self have to go and manage the right the right price per stick which is important in that market and price per pack and bring the price down to the recommended level.
That’s clearly something which we are doing in the first quarter.
I think its going to continue very heavily in the second quarter.
That obviously requires some extra spending.
But I think once we bring the prices to the recommended level we should be in a good situation.
I also should mention that the sequential evolution in the volumes if anything when we started the year I think the first week of the year our shipments were down by about 50% very quickly will move to the 40% then the 30% decline.
Actually if I look at essentially the last few days we almost had a 20% something decline.
So we know that the total market goes in the right direction which I have to manage the price and address or help the government or hope that the government will improve the tax collection from all market participants.
Okay that’s very helpful.
The other question I have for you is in relation to Russia.
Marlboro had a bit of a softer performance.
I was curious if that was somehow related to inventory movements a year ago.
I know that inventory overall was a benefit to Russia.
Then just to understand the investments you made in that market.
I know Marlboro has been a really key focus for you.
any comments on that or any relation to the weaker performance this quarter? Okay investment in Russia is behind Marlboro but also behind the Parliament L&amp;M and a number of other brands.
We in general still think the much stronger much robust infrastructure sales marketing infrastructure as much as the Marlboro in which we are investing.
Obviously Marlboro is our focus as you know it’s the only brand which internally we have a much higher expectation for the performance.
There is a significant price increase.
So I will have to wait a little bit how the prices or how the situation tabulate in the market.
I would argue that Marlboro essentially for the last few quarters in Russia is flat.
We obviously shoot higher.
But for the time being it is flat.
Marlboro over the past two years took RUB 5 higher price increases than the rest of the market because in the meantime we are trying to reposition the Marlboro really to the premium segment.
So if I take all the large price increases in Russia and Marlboro adding on the top of this RUB 5 and I had a brand stable for the last few quarters I think it is actually a good thing about the rest.
However we still have to wait until the Marlboro markets is going to grow.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lavery of CLSA.
I want to ask a question on Indonesia first.
Just to understand how you think about the competitive threat if any from the Gudang Garam Mild that just launched a couple of weeks ago.
Obviously it is just new in the market but they are doing TV commercials they have got a little bit of a price discount to A Mild.
Is that something that you might stand to defend against or do you see that Mild has been obviously a lot of share gains.
Dow do you think about that as an addition to the competitive equation? Well as you remember last year we grew the share hold by almost by three point.
With this quarter we open with almost 1.5 point share advancement.
Obviously our share continues to grow.
A have to admit that the last year our share growth was somehow supported by the more attractive price points for a number of our key brand.
Some of this as we take in continuously the pricing and increasing the pricing in Indonesia some of this attractive price point we are going to lose.
But we are still looking into the share growth in Indonesian.
We are launching our product.
We are expanding our product as well.
So I don’t its any sort of track that you will be able to see at this stage coming from frankly speaking in a competitive right now.
Okay that’s helpful.
Then I know you have touched on this a little bit but can you give us some from color on the pacing.
You said the second half would be stronger but the 2Q and 3Q are your easiest comparisons and so can you just highlight some more of the reasons that 2Q wouldn’t also be a strong or what will help 4Q that the second half would be stronger just what some of the drivers are that shape how the year plays out? Okay I think the reason why I said that we think second half of this year to be stronger than the first half there are a few reasons.
One is we have a new annualization.
We have annualization of the increased spending we started already in the first half of 2012.
This was mainly Russia but also some Asian market.
It's also in the timing of our launches which we had the in first half of the last year versus the first half of this year.
Secondly as I mentioned that we have to increase our spending in Philippines towards the end of the first quarter and I think is going to continued through the second quarter towards the situation which we have with compliance with the recommended prices at the retail level and also to address some competitive pressures there.
Also if you remember we already in February that the three-quarters of 75% of our pricing was already been pretty heavily year.
So yes I mean some of these volumes will have to recover and that recovery in some places may continue through the Q2.
Then obviously is also the shipment patterns which were having some market with some distortions may continue will continue actually for the Q2.
So as I said we expect the second half to be stronger than the first half of this year.
That's helpful.
Then just my last question you've talked before about opportunity that it could be the regain even sort of your fair share of illicit trade or just the stem that growth even but it seems to be still more of a threat than an opportunity.
What could make that tide turn? I know you've put money into Poland things but how far off is that from having any impact? When should we see that actually start to become something that is heading the other way instead of gaining share? This is a process.
Okay? It's going to take time.
I mentioned Turkey in my remarks is one of the markets where despite the prices increases etcetera tax increase and the price increases government doing a lot of right things on illicit trade and we see that through volume coming to the industry.
I mean despite the tax and the price increase in Turkey we still think that the volumes for the full year helped by the recovery of illicit trade is going to be flat so we can see that.
I think also that recently I think this week in EU is going to be another serious wakeup call to the number of the states in EU because letting the contraband growing from a 10-plus percent last year to 11-plus percent this year in the middle of this crisis I mean it doesn't necessarily tells the good thing about the number of the law enforcement authorities in the many of the EU countries but this is going to take time.
I admit it.
We are working with Interpol we are working on tightening the supply chain.
There is cooperation among the industry members the legitimate industry members but more has to be done.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Thilo Wrede of Jefferies.
Good morning.
I think you alluded to it already but in markets like Italy and the EU you have a down trading market yet the premium brands that you have there are gaining market share.
Can you give us a little bit more background how the dynamics there work? Well first of all there is a number of the brand support activities which were deploying behind Marlboro okay? The whole commercial organization commercial approach which we have already announced at the time on Investors Day last year here and we start yielding results.
Second in most of the countries the tax regimes are actually more and more supporting or not allowing for the too much of the down trading.
I mean the price gaps despite the fact that they are price increases tends to narrow so you know they have the minimum taxes very high minimum taxes or just the specific structure.
I think this all together has clearly brand like Marlboro but I think Marlboro quarter-after-quarter in terms of a EEMA's equity etcetera is getting into better and better shape.
Okay.
Then in Japan for the last three quarters your market share has been drifting down again after the post tsunami gains.
What's your outlook? At what point you can actually maintain your year-over-year market shares in Japan? Well I still think that we can make a share advancement in Japan.
I mean the quarterly 27.5%.
I mean that's not what we would expect so I think the.
There are still three quarters to go.
We have a pipeline of our products and the programs there in place but as I said earlier answering one of the previous questions there is a massive support from JT behind the Mevius in terms of the product promotion.
The other manufacturers are already pretty active with launching their product.
It's a competitive environment.
I look at this also positively that despite that there is a massive spending and activity coming from a competition or competitor Marlboro actually is extremely resilient.
I mean that said that's very important for us.
We will have to address the situations with Lark Philip Morris going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bloomquist of Berenberg Bank.
Just a brief question on the United Kingdom and the outlook for plain packaging in there.
I thought the comment on the Australia were helpful.
But what do you see in terms of the risk of the U.K.
government moving forward on plain packaging and how do you see such a move does occur affecting the approaches if other governments within the EU that have expressed interest such as the Irish most recently? Well not much strategies on the U.K.
actually because the government still have not revealed what is the conclusion of the public consultation in pack assessment et cetera.
So we are waiting for the decision of the government in which directions they really want to go.
At the same time as you know there is still a tobacco product directive which is in the making  There are still pretty important steps to go over the tobacco product directive.
We will then have a much better visibility really how many markets are key and if you like I am willing to introduce the plain packaging in many markets over there.
As you know the plain packaging in European Union also at the member states level has the number of legal challenges for its implementation.
So we will have to see.
And as I said so far it's early but so far especially on the smoking on consumption of cigarette in Australia you don't really see as expected frankly speaking any impact coming from the plain packaging despite what was promised at the beginning.
So as evidenced I have got the feeling its not being built in Australia.
I mean there is still no evidence.
Your next question comes from the line of Rogerio Fujimori of Credit Suisse.
Jacek could you talk a bit about your other two big markets in the EU France and Spain? Particularly in France you reported market volumes down 8.6% but in the last call you flag a decline of 3.4% in January.
So is it fair to say that cigarette volumes are getting worse? Then in Spain I think you reported cigarette market volume down 15%.
So I was just wondering about the shape of the quarter and the underlying decline in this market? I think that France is still towards the end of the last year we had a price increase in France.
So market is still in the recovery.
Although I have to admit that macros in the France are not the most encouraging right.
The employment the GDP et cetera are not necessarily going in the right direction.
Spain also had the beginning of the year price increase but early in January.
I think there was a $0.15 price increase in Spain.
So we will have to wait presumably a few months to see how the situation develops there.
But as I said this is all both France and Spain as we see today are all in my forecast or estimate of the total market decline for the EU to be broadly in a range of last year.
Italy I will repeat it as well I mean it’s the only country.
The main country which I have on the watch list with regards to the VAT development.
Okay and then secondly you mentioned that we should expect some trade inventory distortions in the second quarter.
Could you just elaborate on that to help us with our models please? Thank you.
I think it would be mainly in Asia and mainly still in Japan.
I think the last quarter when we rebuild our inventories to the safety level what we require to what we regard as a safety level for the Japanese markets to place in the Q2 if you remember properly of last year.
So clearly I will be missing this one this year.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will now turn the call to Nick Rolli for any closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
That concludes our call today.
If you have any follow-up questions the investor relations team here in Switzerland.
The phone numbers are available on the press release.
Again thank you very much for joining us today.
Thank you for participating in the Philip Morris International first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Philip Morris International Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Philip Morris International management and the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Media representatives on the call will also be invited to ask questions at the conclusion of questions from the investment community.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Nick Rolli Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Welcome and thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we issued a press release containing detailed information on our 2013 second quarter results.
You may access the release on our website at www.pmi.com.
During our call we will be talking about results for the second quarter of 2013 and comparing them to the same period in 2012 unless otherwise stated.
References to volumes or to PMI shipments industry volume and market shares are the latest data available from a number of internal and external sources.
Organic volume refers to volume excluding acquisitions.
Net revenues exclude excise taxes.
Operating companies’ income or OCI is defined as operating income before general corporate expenses and the amortization of intangibles.
You will find data tables showing adjustments to net revenues and OCI for currency acquisitions asset impairment exit and other costs free cash flow calculations and adjustments to earnings per share or EPS as well as reconciliations to U.S.
GAAP measures at the back of this presentation which is also posted on our website.
Today’s remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results.
I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statements disclosure in today’s presentation and press release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections or forward-looking statements.
It’s now my pleasure to introduce Jacek Olczak our Chief Financial Officer.
Jacek? Thank you Nick and welcome ladies and gentlemen.
As previously foreseen we had the challenging second quarter.
Our adjusted diluted EPS was up slightly excluding currency.
Cigarette volume declined by 3.9% due principally to lower industry volume in the EU region Russia Turkey and the Philippines as well as inventory movement in Japan and Russia.
Pricing remained strong and we have solid share gains particularly in the EU region.
However this was not sufficient to offset that impact of unfavorable volume mix additional investment notably in Indonesia the Philippines and Russia and higher clove and tobacco cost in Indonesia.
Our business fundamentals remain solid and we are confident in our ability to achieve the ex-currency guidance that we established in February and the (inaudible) funds in May.
However the evolution of tax paid triggered at industry volume will remain a key valuable and our main challenge for the remainder of the year notably due to the growth of illicit trade.
We anticipate better results during the second half of the year and in particular a strong fourth quarter.
This is based on the expectation that our volume declined to moderate other small-scale (ph) have adjusted higher prices implemented earlier this year.
Our strong commodity share performance in the EU region will continue margins will improve thanks to recent price increases and we will have favorably due to the respect of the timing of investment in infrastructure and marketing.
Since April we have weakness a sharp decline in the value of some currencies relating to commodities and emerging markets as the Australian Dollar Indonesia Rupiah Mexican Peso Russian Ruble and Turkish Lira.
Accordingly at prevailing exchange rate our guidance now includes a full year unfavorable currency in part of proximity $0.31 per share as of $0.19 in our previous guidance.
I will revise the reported diluted EPS guidance for 2013 is that for $5.43 to $5.53 compared to $5.17 in 2012.
The change already reflects into currency impact.
Excluding currency this continues to represent a growth rate of approximately 10% to 12% compared to other adjusted diluted EPS of $5.22 in 2012.
This is inline with our mid to long term currency neutral annual adjusted diluted EPS growth targets.
Let me now discuss our second quarter results in more detail.
Our cigarette volume was down by 2.6% excluding the Philippines; this reflects 3 million (inaudible).
First cigarette industry volume in the EU region continued to decline second industry volume in Russia was impacted by the livestock driven price increases that were implemented at the beginning of this year as well as weakening economy.
Third our second quarter volume reflected a difficult comparison due to the inventory replenishment in Japan in Q2 of 2012 as well as the lower market share.
However there were some favorable development.
First the decline in our volume in the EU region of 5.9% was significantly less than the 7.1% decline that occurred in the first quarter.
Second we again achieved volume growth in the Asia region excluding the Philippines and finally the volume growth continues to be strong in the Middle-East and North Africa.
Pricing continued to be the key driver of our income performance the sales growth set the impact upon favorable volume mix on that revenues excluding currency.
However adjusted OCI declined by 3.4% excluding currency.
This was due to unfavorable volume mix higher product cost notably in Indonesia where higher clove and tobacco cost have to-date only been partially passed on.
Investment in business infrastructure and marketing in Russia since the second half of last year and additional spending in the Philippines in the second quarter of this year to seek to achieve more sustainable price gaps.
Our ability to take pricing remain solid including in the EU region.
During the second quarter we achieved a favorable pricing variance of 479 million bringing our June year-to-date total variance to over 1 billion.
In May we increased retail prices in Germany by EUR0.20 per pack across our portfolio.
In June we announced a favorable (ph) price increase in Russia for (inaudible) across most of our key brands.
We have also increased prices recently in Belgium Canada Egypt France Greece Indonesia Spain Switzerland and Ukraine.
This price increases will help us achieve another strong pricing variance during the second half of the year.
Let me now review a number of our key geographies starting with the EU region.
We have seen some signals that politicians recognized the further spending cut to try to reign in budget deficit and not going to help Europe telling to coordinate.
However few conclusive measures have been taking so far to stem the continued rising unemployment which reach a seasonally adjusted rate of 12.2% that you made this year this is compared to 11.3% a year ago.
In the second quarter regional cigarette industry volume was down by 8% and the regional fine cut industry volume declined by 0.8%.
During the quarter we witnessed continued adult consumer down-trading to lower priced products including illicit cigarettes.
Due to the continued deterioration in the economic situation and the resulting growth in illicit product we are now forecasting a decline of cigarette industry volume in the EU region of 7% to 8% for the full year 2013 compared to our previous forecast of around 6.5%.
While industry volume declined slightly faster than previously foreseen we were able to achieve a better than expected market share.
Consequently our cigarette volume declined by 5.9% and our fine cut volume grew by 12.3% during the second quarter.
On a regional basis our cigarette market share increased by 0.7 points in the second quarter to 39.3%.
The gain was driven in particular by Marlboro which grew by 0.5 points to 19.4% with L&amp;M Chesterfield and the Philip Morris brand also performing well.
In the fine cut category we gained 1.2 share points to reach the original share of 14.9% as we continue to successfully extend our cigarette portfolio into this category.
Let me focus on the three of the key markets in the EU region mainly Germany Italy and Spain.
Cigarette industry volume in Germany declined by 7% in the second quarter and fine cut industry volume decreased by 0.7% following slight increases in March.
However it should be highlighted that the underlying decline in cigarette industry volume was 2.8% after the elimination of estimated trade inventory fluctuation.
Our cigarette share grew by 1.2 points in the quarter to 37.6% driven mainly by the strong performance of Marlboro which achieved its fifth consecutive quarterly year-on-year share increase.
The economic downturn in Italy continues with unemployment increasing from 11.9% in February to 12.2% in May.
Italy on cigarette industry volume declined by 7.2% in the second quarter and a fine cut industry volume was down by 10.5% impacted by the reduction in the price cuts between fine cut products and cigarettes that followed the large fine cut tax increases mid last year.
The underlying fundamentals of our business in Italy remained strong.
Our cigarette market share grew by a further 0.4 points in the quarter to 53.3% thanks to the continued momentum of Marlboro and the success of the Philip Morris Selection in the international low-priced segment.
We also gained share in the fine cut category with an increase of 7.9 points in the second quarter to 37.9% following the successful introduction of Marlboro fine cut.
We were encouraged by the decision of the Italian government to postpone to October the 1 point increase in VAT that was due to be implemented in July.
We believe that such a measure would reduce consumer spending and hope that it will be further postponed or cancelled.
At the end of last month the Spanish government modified the excise tax on tobacco products in order to enhance the predictability and stability of excise tax revenues which had been undermined by adult cigarette smokers down trading to lower tax alternatives.
The specific excise tax on cigarettes was increased while the ad-valorem rate was reduced.
At the same time the royalty of excise tax burden on fine cut was increased.
The resulting reduction in the price gap between cigarette and fine cut should help address the recent market in (inaudible) whereby cigarette industry volume declined by 12% in the first half of the year while fine cut industry volume increased by 26.4%.
Our cigarette market share was up by 2.3 points in the quarter to 31.9% as Marlboro Chesterfield and L&amp;M all grew.
Let me now turn to the EEMA market starting with Russia.
In Russia we estimate that cigarette industry volume declined by about 6.4% during the second quarter as adult smokers reacted to tax-driven price increases of RUB6 to RUB7 equivalent to 9% for above premium to 22% for super low-priced brands and to a weaker economy.
Our volume declined by 11.4% during the same period as our distributor reversed its first quarter inventory buildup.
Through the end of May our quarterly market share remained resilient and was just 0.2 points lower at 25.9% despite the late price increases by several competitors following the January tax increase.
Parliament L&amp;M and Bond Street continued to gain share which is more than offset by the declining of Chesterfield.
We expect higher profitability for the full year 2013 than last year due to our pricing strategy that we’re forecasting the cigarette industry volume will decline 6% to 7% on a full year basis.
In Turkey there was a resurgence of illicit trade during the second quarter when it reached over 20% of total consumption due to the governments focus on other priorities.
As a result cigarette industry volume decline by an estimated 11%.
It is difficult to forecast the full year performance due to the uncertainty surrounding future trend in illicit trade.
However unless the government acts quickly to stabilize the issue cigarette industry volume could be down by 8th March at 7% to 9%.
The premium on mid-price segment continue to perform well.
Our mix in growth driven by the strong momentum of Parliament and Muratti.
However the low price segment which includes Lark and L&amp;M prices 6.5 Lira per pack was impacted by the expansion of the super low 6 Lira per pack segment.
This led to a slight erosion of our overall markets during the second quarter to May on 0.5 points to 44.8%.
We have addressed this issue through the relaunch of Chesterfield at 6 Lira per pack.
In Asia we’re continuing to strengthen our business despite the disruptive tax increase in the Philippines.
Our cigarette volume grew by 1.5% excluding the Philippines with Indonesia the key contributor.
In Japan cigarette industry volume decreased by 2% during the second quarter and we continue to forecast the similar decline for the full year.
However due mainly to the inventory replenishment that have occurred in Q2 of 2012 our volume was 10.2% lower than this year.
During the second quarter we witnessed continued intense competitive activities and the successful launch by Japan Tobacco of its first Mevius cut (inaudible).
Our market short decline by 0.9 points to 26.9% driven by lower shares for Lark the Philip Morris Brand and primarily the momentum Menthol (ph) variance of Marlboro.
We expect our market choice to remain under pressure in the second half of the year so we believe that we will make progress overtime thanks to the continued resilience of Marlboro and a strong pipeline of innovative new products.
Indonesian industry volume grew by 3.5% in the second quarter while we outperform the industry through the volume expansion of 6% for the full year we now expect an industry growth rate of approximately 4% which were below the exception of the growth rate of the last two years is consistent with the historical average for the market.
Our market share grew by 0.9 points to total 6.1% driven by Sampoerna A U Mild and the Marlboro partly offset by the decline of (inaudible) which moved above the favorable 1000 rupiah per cigarette a steep price point.
Premium Sampoerna A is a clear leader and growing but increasingly price competitive (inaudible) and machine made process (ph) segment.
U-Mild is the leading unique price brand in the segment while Marlboro continued to strengthen it's position in the white cigarette segment where it develops a segment share of 7% to 6% during the second quarter.
The final market that I will talk is the Philippines the decline in the tax based industry volume moderated significantly during the second quarter where volume down by 7% despite the continued high prevalence of local non-tax paid cigarette that are not included in the data.
We increased our investments behind Fortune and lower price brands to seek to achieve more sustainable price cuts.
However despite the very large tax increase our local competitors Mighty and Marvel brand have remained at last year’s attractive price point at 1 peso per cig.
This gives the competitor a clear price advantage in the market where fixed sales (ph) account for about 70% of the volume.
We want the limited improvements in tax enforcement wide spread availability of non-tax based domestic cigarettes remain a critical issue.
This is driving a greater level of down trading and originally foreseen and that has impacted our volume our mix and our market share which declined to 82.9% in the quarter.
We are continuing to work with the Bureau of Internal Revenue to achieve a level playing field.
Our volume increased from 13.5 billion units in the first quarter to 19.1 billion units in the second quarter.
For the full year 2013 we forecasted our volume will be down around 20% to 25% but that the decline in consumption should be significantly less.
In conclusion we remain confident that we will deliver solid financial results in 2013 industry volumes remains a key challenge.
However we expect to continue to achieve solid market share as well as higher prices.
There is no change to our guidance attributable to business results.
Our revised 2013 reported diluted EPS guidance reflecting prevailing exchange rate is $5.43 to $5.53.
Our guidance continues to represent the full year growth rate of approximately 10% to 12% excluding currency compared to our 2012 adjusted diluted EPS of $5.22.
We anticipate strong free cash flow growth excluding currency in 2013 and remained steadfast in our commitment to reward our shareholders through attractive dividends and substantial share repurchase programs.
Our dividend yield last Friday was 3.8% and our target dividend payout ratio remained 65%.
During the second quarter we spent $1.5 billion in share repurchases and have now repurchased close to 25% of the shares outstanding at the time of the spin.
Thank you.
And I will be now happy to answer your questions.
Thank you.
We will now conduct the question-and-answer portion of the conference.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog with Wells Fargo.
Hi Olczak.
Good morning Bonnie.
Good morning.
I guess my first question is in terms of the quarter where did it fall relative to your expectations and shipping since your volume in overall business has to improve quite substantially to hit even the low end of your 10% to 12% currency neutral EPS growth what gives you the confidence that you can hit these targets and then what are the key drivers of this? Well to start with the quarter second quarter I mean nothing frankly speaking came in the second quarter as a surprise to us.
I mean we knew that we will have an inventory adjustment in Japan and maybe at this stage I can give you a little bit more details over the margin instead of that adjustment if our shipment was down in Japan by about 10% if you take the market decline down it’s about 8%.
So on shipments you are talking well around the 1 billion of the adjustments or around the 1 billion of adjustments.
You know that Japan is a pretty profitable market to us as the volumes are expensive.
And in Asia we also knew that we are going to scale up the investment behind the defending the price points in Philippines for just these two countries to market put the drag on the results but as expected I mean we knew it.
As a surprise I think came a bit weak start in June in Japan and I think the sudden resurgence of the illicit trade in Turkey.
I mean it is where the things were at the beginning of the quarter where we have been heading in our market.
When it comes to second half of the year as you have seen we had a very strong pricing in the first half of the year $1 billion I mean it clearly gives us and the pricing is – pricing environment supported by the tax environment I mean (it wasn’t) pretty comfortable about delivering a strong pricing in the second half of the year.
Second thing is there is just the timing of the annualization of our investment from last year to this year.
If you look at our total cost variance which you will have on the cost of goods sold and the total cost of the company essentially the negative variance which we have for the first half of the year that is for the year.
So in second half of the year we should be essentially closing flat versus 2012.
So as I said we have a strong pricing.
The tax environment is reasonable.
The cost comps is going to be definitely easier for the second half of the year and needless to say that the business performance measured by the performance of our brands in essentially most of the geographies I mean we’re doing pretty well.
So this gives us the confidence that we can deliver the results for the full year.
Okay that was really helpful I appreciate that and you mentioned pricing has been strong and you expect that to continue in the second half.
I’m trying to understand you know how your volume could be impacted for the second half and the full year.
You suggested last quarter that your volume growth ex-Philippines would be positive this year.
I would like to if you think that’s still possible given again how weak the volume has been last quarter and this quarter and then certainly especially given some Marlboro volumes.
Sequentially we see the improvement in the volumes in most of the geography so when we were revising the guidance the outlook for the full year it's much more critical than I said some of this improvement are not as growth as maybe initially that we expected but there are improvements so clearly the volumes of our quarter three and quarter four I mean it's going to work a little bit better but clearly the total market volumes I mean for us is a key challenge for the year.
I think major what will help you if you look at how we see ourselves how we’re going to do the quarters Q3 and Q4 and you know that it is our practice not to give there a specific guidance for the quarter.
I was expecting the EPS level for the quarter free to be somewhat comparable to what we had in the quarter one and then we will have all alignment of the revenue and the cost qualms are fully materializing at the backend of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of David Adelman with Morgan Stanley.
Just to be clear on that last point you think you’re going to have an absolute level of earnings per share in the third quarter that’s comparable to what you earned in the first quarter of this year? Well I said you know that our practice and this is what I said to Bonnie our practice is not to be very specific in guidance on the cost that we break.
I was just trying to give the outsight community a little bit of color on what will be the pricing of the growth.
On ex-currency basis more EPS in Q3 growth rate should be comparable maybe slightly above where they have been in Q1 so clearly you see that… Comparable growth rate not a comparable level of earnings just to be clear.
Yes that’s correct.
Okay.
Jacek can you help us understand sort of the magnitude of the change in the enforcement of the non-duty paid volumes in the Philippines in other words if it's started and the level of enforcement was at zero and a 100 is sort of standard and optimal where are we as we’re going through month-by-month.
Well the 100 the last year I have to I think start from the last year.
I think the last year the under declaration from that particular competitor we estimate was in the range of 80% of the entire volume.
We brought it down while the government somehow brought it down to say about 20%-25% under declaration but just the magnitude of the tax burden which is at the new rate is that you still can sell the product profitability even at 75% of the volume and under declare 25%.
So the issue is now and that is for is presumably that particular competitor still sitting on a 1 peso price point which you know if you pay the full cost economically it's completely not doable.
So the question is now will the government continue or will there be not willingness on the government side to make sure that 100% of the volumes are being declared is my case and some other competitors in the market.
So that’s the magnitude so yes there is an improvement we’re about to reach this tipping point in Philippines but we have not reached the tipping point and there is sort of a relaxation if you like on a tax collection tax administration from the government and we might be going back to square one.
As it does improve the hope and expectation would be you would in effect buy down Fortune at a lower rate correct? And improve the profitability in the market? Yes and this is what I refer to with our increased spend in Q1 it's going to continue next year behind Fortune is buying down the price at resale so this is sales allowances (ph) and other forms of supporting the brand to bring closer to the ideal price of say 1.50 1.60 and the same time we have reintroduced two brands at the 1 peso (inaudible) which clearly put the pressure on our financials you can imagine.
What we are doing is this our strategy was two-pronged strategy bring down the price don’t lose the volumes and in the meantime work with the government so they bring up the bottom of the market but making sure the government pays taxes.
Now we have been delivering pretty well on our part but I have to admit it is financially expensive strategy but we also have to make sure that the government delivers on the second part of the strategy.
There are still capital working things otherwise we were kind of integrated.
Okay.
And then last quarter Jacek on cash flow you reiterated again you expect a strong increase in free cash flow for the year it was down in the first quarter versus the year ago first quarter you mentioned on the last conference call that had to do with the phasing of the repatriation of profits to the United States and the related tax issue paid but it’s down again even on a currency neutral basis in the second quarter what why? There is nothing structural is that the timing of our income foreign income tax payments in our attribute and we just headed in the second quarter.
I think as of quarter three quarter four you will see that these things will level out.
So what we initially said is still valid that we expect the free cash flow to grow faster than earnings for this year.
Okay.
And actually Jacek one last thing do you feel the growth of illicit trade that you mentioned in the number of markets do you think is that getting to a point where it’s perhaps inhibiting or will inhibit your future capacity to take pricing? Not really I mean as you could see I mean we had a very strong pricing first half of the year.
We expect the strong pricing second half of the year.
So it’s not there.
So I think what is more behind the illicit trade is not just the pricing which we are taking but the whole macro situation okay.
I mean the pricing without an erosion of the consumer purchasing power is the one impact and the pricing value have erosion of the consumer purchasing power is the other impact.
And I think deal is exactly that sort of situation that the pricing is pretty moderate as is the tax environment so that’s good on that type.
But if you have continuous growth of unemployment various austerity measures etcetera I mean it has (put the event) on the consumer spending.
Lastly frankly speaking also like this you have a reduction of the increases of many utilities in Russia are well above inflation well above the rate of the increases last year because utilities in Russia went up by about 10% in the first half of the year last year it was only 5%.
Pricing yes it is pretty high pricing but we had to pass on the price and not just be improve our margins.
So therefore we see a little bit of the softness on the market but it is not the pricing it is much more the macro – the unemployment and other governmental measures to improve their state deficit.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Hi Jacek.
Hi Judy.
Good morning.
Just a couple of questions from my end.
First just I am looking at your Asia margins and clearly you had a pretty significant decline in Q2 and I know that there are sort of big buckets of the drivers of the margin decline you had the negative geographic mix with Japan being down 10%.
You have the Indonesia margin pressure from higher cost and then you got the Philippines step up in the investments but I wanted to just see if you can actually quantify sort of thinking about these big buckets can you quantify the drivers of the margin decline in Asia? Well I think you pointed them all I mean is Japan which is more one-off in the quarter.
And I expect that the margin instead of an adjustment in inventories you are talking in the range of 1 billion billion times the margins which we heard in the Japan that’s clearly (put the event) on the performance of the region and the spending in Philippines okay.
So it’s working on putting the pressure on the cost.
Now Indonesia is still – about this time Indonesia is in the situations when we fully passed on the tax plus also we had a lap on the clove prices and the leaf prices so that pressure is being released from Indonesia.
Japan as I said was the one-off.
Okay Philippines going to continue.
All in all actually I think Asia is going to have we will expect Asia to have a nice growth of the margin strong growth of the margin actually in the second half of the year and all the regions of PMI and we expect for the full year that the operating margin for entire PMI will be up versus last year.
So we expect the margin growth on the total PMI and as I said the second half of the year you should see the improvement in our regions.
So when you think about Japan and then outside of Japan in Asia so is Japan margins down also because you’re spending more given the competitive pressure and outside of Japan is the Philippines really the only region where you’re seeing just at the country level the margins being down year-over-year.
No I think it's more for the shipment discussion which I said in Japan there was we continue spending in Japan launching our product so there is top order but this is more due to the so one off the inventories and Philippines which is a support of the Fortune and our lower price breaks to counter price points.
So these are two items reach essentially drag the margins in the second quarter of Asia region.
Okay and just on Japan so it sounds like you’re not expecting much of a market share improvement in the back half of the year even though you have a bit of a spending in that market.
Can you just talk about sort of what you’re seeing competitively it sounds like really the intense competitive situation continued in the second quarter? Do you think that just from a new product perspective you don’t have enough to really deal with some of the competitive pressure? I’m just curious why you think the market share doesn’t necessarily get better in the back half.
Well I mean JT continues with the promotional spending than the new product offering I think especially the regarding of our share for June I most attribute this also to the successful I’ve to admit that initially free product volumes actual product volumes from our Mevius.
As you know Marlboro Philip Morris and Marlboro was the leading of best (ph) part of the menthol segment in Japan was been very successful so we get a lot of share in the past mild also Mild Seven at that time was one of the big brands which was not participating so you know the whole competition is a little bit of contained about the (inaudible) of the market which is the menthol and we have our nice share there.
We actually over represent in that segment.
I think if we’re going to continue we will be under pressure with share but we also still have the capital of initial activity in our sleeves for the second half of the year.
Last we have very good performance from the brand which we launched in the first couple of years so there won't be a pressure on the share but you lose share you can gain share.
So let remain optimistic.
Okay and lastly just in Russia I think you called out some of the competitors were lagging in terms of the pricing in that armlet.
I mean JTI took pricing recently.
So is your view sort of from a pricing perspective at least the competitive situation has become a little bit more rational in that it's really just more about the volume situation and are consumer starting to react to the pricing increase in a more modest way now that you have sort of had the six months of pricing in place with the tax increase in place? Well the consumer if you look at the smoking incidents and rarely maybe is rarely reacted (ph) but we don’t see much of the movement if at all but as I said maybe it's too early to read the end part of this price increase.
Remember that Russia was taking the price since year-over-year and at the year twice the year the prices used to go up in Russia.
This year is different because the size of the package increase was larger so obviously the price increase is much more is larger as well.
I think if I look at my portfolio that I came with just 0.2 losses knowing that my brand lost the price gap of a 6 rubles to 7 rubles because this was the price increase on the beginning of the year versus competitors and then I feel very strong about the portfolio and actually I start seeing a good pay off of the investment which we had in Russia this year and continuing this year because as I demonstrated as trend of the portfolio the quote (ph) is temporary but they defend to show this part despite the advantages of pricing.
Now you have the logging (ph) in some other markets as well so I don’t think is something which a systematic it happens to somebody that the focus on something else.
For us it has been a very clear Russia is getting into maturity.
I mean the volumes are very exciting but we’re much more excited about the grow in the top-line and grow in the bottom-line and I think for us the focus on Russia is generate the value of the market rather than contemplate too much a bit of the volume on market share losses.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jon Leinster with UBS.
Gentlemen yes just apologies but going back to sort of Bonnie’s question with regards to the good guidance I think clearly no change to the EPS guidance except currency but volumes here is basically quite substantially worse than probably initially thought? I mean can I just push you is there any sort of number you would give full year ex the Philippines is and presumably the swing factor in the second half is mentioned that pricing and costs so that mean the second quarter increase in costs in the Philippines and Indonesia sort of are dropping out again? I mean was the price moves on ‘14 in the Philippines is temporary item or is that going to be a permanent reduction? Well I said on the total cost in answering one of the questions before is that on the total costs for the company the variance which you have ex-currency on the first half of the year then it’s essentially for the full year.
And then I will have much better cost comparisons in the second half of the year.
Pricing 1 billion I would say will qualify there is a strong pricing and we don’t see any sort of headwinds at this stage to our pricing.
I think we are going to continue with a strong pricing going forward.
You will have heard we have announced prices recently also in the Germany France number of other locations so this obviously is going to help the year.
And volume volume and total market volumes is not our performance is our market share is pretty strong and we grow in terms of our market share in a number of places.
I think the single biggest challenge which we have this year is the total market size and this I have to admit them where if you know the number of the factors which plays that is one which makes a little bit forecasting more difficult that might be in other years but this is the year when we have significant challenges on the total market.
But it is (inaudible) that will be the response the company has been to ramp pricing probably more than they expected in the second half to offset that volume the market volume declines? Yes.
We always were focused on growing the revenue and the bottom line.
So as I think we don’t have any major switch in our – change in our strategy.
Just totally separate subject the famous e-cigarettes is the strategy of the great remained as it was in July 2011 with a sort of very much focused on heat not burn products rather than e-cigarettes or is that something which is flexible depending on the way the market develops? No we are pretty flexible because we said we are working on three platforms I mean two platforms which are very strong heat versus burn and the third platform which is potentially one could say that for e-cigarette.
So we are making progress on all three and we are also watching what are the developments in the market? So I think our three platforms assessing what we see today in a market that should be able to address all opportunities which may exist in that market.
But I mean given the way in which the markets develop would you be emphasizing more the e-cigarette now rather than heat not burn or is that not really changed because originally I think the first – couple of the first two platforms that you fully bring to market were heat not burn? I think e-cigarettes as they are today I don’t think the situation has changed much as to our assessment as some time ago.
I mean you need to have a product which is palatable to the consumer.
A product has to be liked by the consumer.
I don’t think e-cigarettes that they are delivering on that front.
Heat versus burn clearly addresses both the element of the reduction and delivers on the taste expectations of consumers.
So I think heat versus burn in our opinion is closer to this ideal sort of a product which you should have in the market.
E-cigarette as I said the prices earlier (inaudible) of the category development of the more focus than investment is needed in order to bring the palatability again of this product into some level of acceptance by consumers.
I mean we see the e-cigarette in some markets is essentially in some markets not in all EU but there is a (inaudible) so it confirms that there was some needs of the consumers but we also have to remember that the early days of cigarettes in the environment when there was talks.
So what I see in some countries is much more phenomenon of the pricing rather than a phenomenon of the hard reduction or price.
I mean people are compromising because they get a discomfort so the cigarette going into 40% 50% or 70% rate.
It's nothing substantial I don’t think we could call it a substantial at this stage but it's the early days of the category.
So we continue working on our free (ph) platforms and we’re making a progress as per plan and I think when we will be ready we will go to market.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lavery with CLSA.
Just looking at your business in Indonesia the volume growth in the first half was about 2% if it's 4% for the year I will say that’s a pretty sharp acceleration that you would expect and I know that it can’t get easier but you’ve also got some potential consumer headwinds with higher fuel prices and those can pass through to other products and then some big competitive launches.
So what do you see driving an acceleration in category growth there? Well we expect 4% but no one can say that you know I think a quarter ago would have been more closer to the 6% of the growth so we lower a little of expectations for the market 4% is the historical average growth of that market if I take out the last very exceptional the last two years which were very exceptional.
I think the fewer subsidies I mean the part of that thing was mitigated by the government by returning some subsidies in other forms to the lower income people.
I think the opening of the year was a bit slower 1% I think what the growth rate of the market in the first quarter was presumably more impacted by some spikes in the food crisis in Indonesia.
So I think it's pretty doable and it's actually somehow reflects the pricing of the seasonality that like pacing of the development in the market.
I think 4% for the market should be doable for the total market.
Our volumes in our market share is pretty strong not as strong growth as the last year because we’re leaving some attractive price points behind us but still for the first half year and the second quarter first quarter we had a nice share advancement.
So I think we can expect some share growth moderate share growth going forward in the year.
And then at the category level is it the easier comps that are the big driver for the acceleration in the second half or is there anything else to that? No I think the market is slowly going through it's historical growth rate it's just the pricing of the quarter it's okay.
And the just package opinion for what you expect that’s factored into your guidance would you need to regain share there to be on track for what you expect reflected in our guidance or do you have it where you just need to hold or I realize that pacing in this past quarter had an impact.
Is your expectation that that’s going to swing back or you not necessarily need that to happen? We put into our guidance we included in our guidance for understanding that share in Japan is going to be under pressure.
I won't give you the number but it's the exact share we targeting for the year but we do recognize that there was a pressure on the share on the market share in Japan.
As I said we still have a few initiatives to be launched in the market let’s see how the whole thing unfolds I mean in the Q3 we presumably will have either better position to say and what is the realistic expectation for the full year.
And I realize it's just early in the quarter you know just a little over couple of weeks but in Japan say specifically or any major markets have you seen trends so far that look like an acceleration or specifically in Japan has there been from a consumer retail share trends that look more promising that suggest you will see the shipments share regain some count? No no but as I said earlier I mean the biggest challenge which we have this year is there is the total market and you know total market needs a little bit of time to estimate properly I mean not on the weekly basis.
So we are pretty confident on our chart.
As I said we are pretty confident about the pricing but we will have to see how this unfolds in the remaining two quarters of the year relative to the total market sizes.
So this is what it is but nothing at the beginning of this month which would focus from a perspective that our guidance or outlook for the second half of the year would change versus let me (jump enough).
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Hi.
Just had two questions for you.
I want to ask a little bit more about your events just understand through the quarter this is a better volume performance than I expected actually.
It seems like you had sequentially better given you had a pretty soft April.
So the expectation we have increased your estimate for the decline for the division for the year.
Do you expect conditions to worsen in the second half of the year or remain about the same? I guess what I saw in the quarter was an improvement throughout the quarter? Yes that means you had total industry was if I remember 10% down in the Q1 is 8% down so you have a blended 9.2 9.3 for the first half of the year.
So yes even with our revised outlook for the full year we do assume that there will be some improvements going forward.
It’s a little bit of accounts but yes sequentially we see that the volumes.
We had exceptional low quarter first quarter.
Okay so that this is already in the book so you can’t change it as well.
But yes there was some sequential improvements in the quarter but obviously if you look at our shipments it’s much better than the market because EU has delivered fabulous market share performance first quarter and the second quarter and is very much on the back of Marlboro.
So you remember at least in the past I said the EU is definitely much more total market than a mix problem for us but that is part of the positive news about the EU performance this year.
Okay.
And just one follow-up question for you which is on the investments that you have made of last year in Russia or in Indonesia those kind of markets or even behind the Marlboro brand overall we will be lapping a lot of those in the second half of the year.
Do you expect that those investments then are going to remain at the same level or did they start to come down on a year-over-year basis? Is that a benefit in the second half or it’s just lots of a drag as to what’s said? No this is what I am saying the second half of this year is going to be more comparable to the second half of last year that (variance) is going to be flat.
So yes on the full 12-month basis this year you will see that we have increased year-on-year.
However the pricing of the thing was that we started to accelerate it increase the investment in the second half third fourth quarter in some places of last year and that if I am lapping this now in the second half of this year.
Okay.
And as you quantified the degree of investments you have made over the last year let’s say of what your increase was overall say in sort of marketing distribution in those kind of areas? Chris I could and I know the number but I am afraid so many people is now on the call then I cannot reveal it.
Understood I thought I’d try.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer with Citi.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
My first question have to do with Indonesia your guidance for 4% volume growth has come down pretty sharply in just a little over a month.
So what gives you comfort that that 4% is the right number to the extent that you see continued food inflations in that market? Well I mean that we got the reading now of the second quarter.
So yes I mean the second quarter came nicely and the volumes grew by total industry volumes grew by 3.5.
So once you have the two quarters it’s a little bit easier to forecast the full year.
So this is due to – I think there was some impact in the first quarter of the food inflation.
There is some flooding in some regions territories in Indonesia I think all that together I mean they might put the market on a bit of slower opening of this year.
So the quarter sequentially now should be better but I think will to be more realistic we should rather put an estimate of the total market into the range of 4% rather than stayed with the previous one.
And we frankly speaking 4% is a very solid nice growth rate for this market and we’re okay with this.
Sure.
In the EU you previously stated that you would hope to hold your local currency EBIT flat with your prior volume assumption.
So can you give an update on that outlook for local currency EBIT growth in the EU? Well EU again I mean they improve sequentially the total industry improved in the Q2.
I would say might be initial that we thought the improvement is going to be more than just 8% decline and I think once you have 10% and 8% in the pocket already in actuals then you have to again you’re in tense situations that you better can predict what forecast for the full year is going to be.
There is not much improvement on the contraband I mean we don’t have a the full reading for the EU where the illicit trade span however run it off through the market and beneath the market so many markets indicate that the contraband the illicit trade continues to grow it's not easy.
So France I think is one of the recent examples in the illicit trade despite that continues to grow.
So all in all I think to be more realistic will size it to revise the outlook for the industry.
Maybe it's come back (ph) I don’t know.
Our biggest challenge would be the biggest challenge we have this year is the total size of the industry not our business performance is not our ability to the deliver strong pricing is not our ability to manage the cost the investment et cetera is essentially the total industry volumes.
Far enough and my last question has to be with e-cigarette as well.
Do you have an estimate on what impact the e-cigarettes could have had for the total EU or maybe specifically for some of the markets where it's integrating (ph) you just called plans where you have seen a sequential acceleration and the market declines on the substantially easier comp and as I understand that is one of the bigger e-cigarette markets in the region.
I wouldn’t give a number I mean we’re looking at this carefully because as you know one of our platform is cigarette so it's not that we’re not closely looking at this category it's difficult to estimate.
You have this sometimes this information some travel to Italy to Rome and have seen his friends and the cigarette you go 100 kilometers outside the Rome but no one has heard about e-cigarette.
So we have to look at this unlike the total sort of the information is a little bit of a conscious.
I don’t eco-consciousness (ph).
I don’t think today is the size of the market of these cigarette is in the range higher than a 1% and presumably that might be on the high side.
I don’t have a number I mean it's a pure speculation you would have to I think we need more time to really assess that I don’t think it's comparable to what you have for example in the U.S.
But yes we understand they are resulted (ph) in London once you go to other towns outside London not necessary is the case.
I mean I had seen in Greece and there is just another alternative to smoking that significant at lower price than this stuff came and the market disappeared whatever the market at the beginning.
So this is barely stages of the category in Europe.
As I said we’re very closing watching this thing and looking where is the right moment when this market can create opportunity for us but I wouldn’t volunteer today to turn a solid number with regards to the impact of the e-cigarettes the size of e-cigarettes in Europe.
Your next question comes from the line of Thilo Wrede with Jefferies.
Is this the most challenging environment that you’ve operated in since the spin-off or is it too much of pessimistic interpretation of your results? It is solid the whole year is challenging.
There is different challenge from here I mean than the retrospect we presumably.
We’re much more focused we keep eye on the ball quarter two is quarter two we reported quarter two.
I’m glad it's over we focus on a quarter three quarter four 2014-15 so at the retrospect we will just treat it as a quarter.
We’re not managing the business of the quarterly basis but for us it's much more how we’re confident about the full year what is front of us for the 2014-15 et cetera 16-17 I mean we have a lot of exciting things in front of us so I wouldn’t I understand the interest around the quarter but wouldn’t be overexcited about the quarter.
So you wouldn’t say that the overall pricing environment is any worse than what you have seen in the last five or six years? It’s challenging environment.
I mean that this year the challenge is the total market sizes I mean there are some other areas you had other challenges I mean the business was not performing well if you go back to the spring time I mean we today are much more confident much much more confident in our ability to grow market share to grow Marlboro to be innovative as such well I mean I wouldn’t think I don’t think we were that stronger had such strong feelings about the best part of our business in the 2008 or 2009.
Okay so listen business is business I mean you always have some challenges no point.
Fair enough.
We don’t want you to get forward right.
I have a question out for you Jacek is can you give us an update on the impact of claim packaging in Australia? Well if you look from the total market perspective and the market share the market was slightly down that it is the mature market.
So I don’t think there is what can really give you more of the impact was the impact of the claim package.
There is some acceleration of the down trading.
This is attributable to claim pack.
We will have to see but there is some down trading but also market is pretty expensive market in terms of the level of the prices.
Prices went up.
We have seen the down trading before the claim pack.
Can claim pack meet long-term accelerator trading? Yes there is a risk.
We always put you open about it and I wouldn’t conclude that sort of a statement just based on one quarter I mean its ability.
In Australia it’s developing nicely strong.
Right.
And any changes to the illicit trade in Australia that you can see? No no no.
Okay.
Alright that’s all I had for you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bloomquist with Berenberg.
Hi good morning Jacek.
Good morning Erik.
I would like to circle back to Russia and just firstly the reason for the decrease in the outlook for Russian volume it sounded like from your previous comments that’s really due to a change in the macro environment and the effect that’s having on consumer disposable income.
I was hoping you could help clarify that? And then secondly I was wondering if there is a sense that the Russian government with this greater decline in volumes now will be taking that into account as they look at tax rates going forward at the end of the year? Well I think when it comes to the market as what we see as we have a slowdown in the economy.
So Russia has still the quarters.
We are talking in the quarters of GDP growth but the growth dynamic is different than it used to be in the past.
So there is a slowdown in the economy.
There is a clearly less governmental spending which presumably also goes back into the overall stage of side of the economy.
There was clearly a low range dynamic.
I mean the ranges are growing up in Russia but not at the rates but last year or year before.
And for the first half of the year I think the utilities prices prices for utilities water gas fuel etcetera went up I think in the range of about 10%.
I think Russia is in the inflation of about 7% 7% to 8% so clearly above inflation and above the range of the growth which we observed last year because first half last year utilities were up by about 5%.
So there is something around the consumer purchasing the power of disposable income which we are confronted with.
Now Russia is good thing about Russia is we have a good cost structure.
We have a visibility of the taxation for the next three years.
Next year there is still in front of us quite a sizable cost increase which we would like to pass – to pass on to consumers.
I mean it’s slightly above this year because the impact of this year of the pure tax was about RUB5 if I am not mistaken and we have in front of us about RUB8 of the tax increase just tax increase for the market.
So I don’t think the government will change this one.
In the outer years of the long-term tax plan the government may take the different view from the indexation but anyway in the plan there is a moderation because 2015 to ‘16 that is what we understand the taxes should go at the lower rate and this year and the next year.
One thing which we have to watch for last year because this other experience from other places and I called the government also will helpfully look at the illicit trade okay because this is what the such a situation may open the door to illicit trade but I hope the Russian government and the Russian administration will defend strongly their market share.
Okay.
Thank you and then my last question was with respect to the evolution of the TPDs as you see it at this stage given the various entities have kind had a first go at it and then related to that is what looks to be the risk plain packaging in Ireland given the UK’s decision to abandon that policy.
Thanks.
Well logically Ireland should follow the same thing thinking as (inaudible) less rate for the evident and down then (inaudible) make sure that the legislation you propose is come from the evidence scientific perspective.
The process in Ireland has not started we have just heard that they have an intention to look into plain packaging other than I can say.
On the TPD I will paint the whole debate about the Tobacco Product Directive will have the parliamentary sessions of the Parliament around mid of September now depends how the outcome of or how the directive is going to be for at the end of the parliament versus what the council have decided and they will go to the reconciliation process I think they will know the final shape of the directive before year end maybe early next year around the year around and have heard about the two years for transposition into Member State Law will have to see what transition period the Member States will give in the domestic market and the domestic jurisdiction so specifically to same analogy say you have the number of committees in the parliament the opinions are highly divided it's not that there is a unanimous support for the ban of (inaudible) or menthol et cetera but I don’t know it's difficult to speculate at which the directives from now where it's going to be finished.
Your next question comes from the line of Rogerio Fujimori with Credit Suisse.
I just have one quick question in the context of the proposed EU TPD changes also if you could talk a little bit of Poland the 20% is meant for nearly 30% is (inaudible).
Would you expect to switch to other cigarettes if and when the ban is in place or more likely that you will see a surge in nearly substantial volumes from Eastern Europe.
Thank you.
I think for that is too important to address the illicit trade.
I mean I think some consumers you know can go and find a similar product in the early cig market already today and this was one of the arguments which we’re bringing to the EU office at the Member State that first of all there is no scientific ways to ban any of this product it's a pure discrimination in the market without any scientific base.
It is difficult to argue that the (inaudible) are more harmful or less harmful that the regular cigarette.
Yes it's an illicit trade some consumers it's a speculation but some consumers will go back to regular cigarette and in some countries in Europe consumers also know how to menthol cigarette themselves so I don’t know in which direction it's going to go (inaudible) designed the policy if this space like it is it's will not be proven will deliver on the stated objective but yes it's well created this portion in the market.
So let’s see how that will unfold.
Your next question comes from the line of Ann Gurkin with Davenport.
We’re two quarters into the year is there any change in the contribution from pricing variance for the full year versus expectations when we started the year? No the pricing variance the billion I just indicate that we’re looking for the various pricing variance for the full year so no.
Okay great and then in the release you comment on lower industry volume and I understand that’s reflecting excise tax increase as trade inventory movement illicit trade et cetera but is there any fundamental change and consumption patterns in any markets that is contributing to that lower volume for total industry? No it’s presumably that we are very excited that the biggest challenge this year we have on the total industry volume.
I think the price increase which is taking place that is not something significantly higher than in the previous years the average is etcetera.
I think what we confronted is that in some geographies we confronted with the slowdowns of economy the difficult market etcetera.
So whatever you have an erosion in the disposable income that has an impact.
The illicit trade obviously started playing more important low this is a challenge which we have illicit trade in the form of a typical contraband crossing the borders but also in some places like Philippines are the very low law enforcement which resulted as you know some people don’t pay their taxes which they should pay and then other phenomenon which we are confronted with.
But in terms of consumption part of smoking incident if you look at the mature market yes there was a natural rate of decline but nothing which you would today attribute that this is the year when people that the incidents go down faster of the daily consumption rates decline in fact that actually in many countries they get out (inaudible) etcetera.
The smoking incident in many countries stays flat and the daily consumption stays flat of the total tobacco products.
That is great.
That helps.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Hayes with Nomura.
Good morning good afternoon gentlemen.
Just in terms of looking up on a comment you made earlier about the price lags by some competitors you mentioned Russia and then some other markets you had seen that I guess two questions on that.
One is is that something you feel in terms of that price lagging is it bit of a growing trend? And then secondly is there any markets apart from the Philippines which you code out where you have actually reversed pricing – haven’t taken pricing during the year? Thank you.
The price lagging it happens every year in different places okay.
I think it’s sometimes is amount sometimes is a capital market and the Russia was a little bit on the longer side so that’s clearly is something which put the pressure but finally prices were implemented.
I mean it’s more of the tactics rather than I think the sort of a strategy.
And second question no it’s just Philippines when we had the very specific situations when we had to react with the pricing.
Okay thanks.
So just looking on e-cigarettes and kind of have some of these comments earlier I mean my understanding or my understanding at least is that your plan is to come into e-cigarettes through next generation products commercially 2016 through ‘17? Is that still the right understanding or are you saying that if the market develops further you are positioning yourselves to coming with other products ahead of that chronological approach that you talked about in the past? To be precise look I have said in the 2016-17 it was focused on the two platforms the first two platforms and this is where we were going to start constructing the factory this year etcetera but we are working essentially at the same time on the three platforms in the different stages of development but even the platform third platform which is close to – can be treated as e-cigarette is also on our agenda.
Okay.
So you could come to market with something commercially in that area earlier than 2016 potentially? When we will go to the market we will announce when we will go to market.
Okay.
And then my final question is to clarify I guess just in terms of the guidance and some of the trends that people highlighted I guess you talked about the fact that these markets Indonesia Russia EU Turkey obviously the volumes have lowered since the beginning of the year in terms of outlook but then you just made the point that pricing wise you have not changed your outlook since the beginning of the year in terms of the pricing you expected to take through the year.
So I am just still trying to equate why the guidance is so unchanged what the moving part offsets that volume declines that you have seen in a number of key markets that you have mentioned today? Well listen I mean it’s the guidance because we were taking into consideration all elements which we knew at that time.
I mean there are pricing at the beginning of the year if I am not mistaken.
We have about 75% of the pricing realized.
So we know what we are going to have in the pricing.
There were some prices also change more recently so I am a little bit earlier for different reasons and their timing of the target increases plus change et cetera.
So in the whole guidance the blend is whole number of facts.
But I guess there is also maybe a little bit less expenditure plan for the beginning of the year or more cost savings potentially is that any area where the 300 million could actually be higher to help delivery.
The cost savings in terms of productivity to plan of the $300 million I mean we’re delivering on schedule so we had it already in our guidance and no there was a comp we knew that we will have a comp in the second half of the year much better than the first half of the year and the fact we’re (inaudible).
Your next question comes from the line of Thomas Russo with Gardner Russo &amp; Gardner.
The two quick questions one involves the pension liabilities in light of the rise of the long term interest rate you’re fully higher the fund status might lead some restatement upwards or down to the liability and I’m curious if that’s second in Spain what steps can you take it sounded like the cigarette volume declined 12% and the (inaudible) were up 26 I think you said that’s quite staggering your depiction any under a way to reverse those trends? Well one thing price is we show (inaudible) all our pension funds are well funded I mean well above the statutory limits so if I have read your questions properly we don’t expect any prices on the front when it comes to Spain yes I mean actually with the government going into finally reorganize that there was a too much of the (inaudible) taxation overall and there is manufacture of cigarette is very helpful.
So now in few quarters we should see very hopefully some improvement.
I think we have seen it in Italy when the government taxes all your fine cut products a little bit more you could see all within out that you have some reverse of the trend which is obviously helpful for our cigarette manufactured cigarette category.
In Italy the number has seem to indicate that what is the level of market share for all your own in Spain at this time? I think it's in the range of 12% if I’m not mistaken.
Ladies and gentlemen we have time for one additional question.
Your final question comes from the line of Chris Burritt with Bloomberg News.
I wanted to ask are you surprised by the volatility and the movement in the currencies and are there new steps or additional steps that you’re taking because of this.
Well I think I’m surprised as everyone is surprised because the whole market there is development and as you know we gave announcement (inaudible) Central Bank and are reacting to the same.
I mean you see our announcement the outlook for the currency is revised by mainly because of the Russian Ruble Mexican Peso trillion dollar et cetera and actually on the Japanese Yen and on the Euro we’re at it work pretty well hedged at the beginning of the year there were some opportunities during the year because the currency was a little bit volatility and we use this opportunity so we feel much more confident about the yen now the euro in progress but the rest of the currency is yes there is a volatility in the market.
May I ask you one last question on electronic cigarettes can you give a little color on I guess how they fall short to the taste and the feel of the consumer and would you go as far as saying that the popularity that the demand for e-cigarettes may actually falter over time? They may not become as big as some project? Well in Europe and myself visualize testing the product the product is not a product which is very close to the conventional cigarette and I think the consumers are looking for something which is at least similar.
So the product has it's own deficiencies but it's a new category so everyone is working on how to improve it.
I mean year from now the situation might be different but I don’t think that the product is performing well on the taste fact okay it's pretty tasteless in (inaudible) as well as question of a good manufacturing practices.
You know the product is not regulated so I don’t think the consumer have a (inaudible) for what they buy and it's really something which they would like to use and as I said earlier I think today is marginal for moment of the price than it is and when the price comes to play you know consumers are really sometimes to compromise a lot.
Will it last long is I don’t know it's remained to be seen.
Thank you and now I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any closing remarks.
Well thank you very much.
That concludes our call.
I apologize for going over a little bit but we did want to make sure that we took all the calls over the queue.
If you do have any follow-up questions you can contact the Investor Relations team.
We’re here in Switzerland the numbers are posted on the materials.
Again thank you all for joining us.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
And welcome to the Philip Morris International Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Philip Morris International management and the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Media representatives on the call will also be invited to ask questions at the conclusion of questions from the investment community.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Nick Rolli Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Welcome.
Thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we issued a press release containing detailed information on our 2013 third quarter results.
You may access the release on our website at www.pmi.com.
During our call we will be talking about results for the third quarter 2013 and comparing them to the same period in 2012 unless otherwise stated.
References to volumes are for PMI shipments industry volume and market shares are the latest data available from a number of internal and external sources.
Organic volume refers to volume excluding acquisitions.
Net revenues exclude excise taxes.
Operating companies’ income or OCI is defined as operating income before general corporate expenses and the amortization of intangibles.
You will find data tables showing adjustments to net revenues and OCI for currency acquisitions asset impairment exit and other costs free cash flow calculations and adjustments to earnings per share or EPS as well as reconciliations to U.S.
GAAP measures at the end of this presentation which is also posted on our website.
Today’s remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results.
I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statements disclosure in today’s presentation and press release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections or forward-looking statements.
It’s now my pleasure to introduce Jacek Olczak our Chief Financial Officer.
Jacek? Thank you Nick and welcome ladies and gentlemen.
As anticipated we achieved improved financial results in the third quarter compared to the first half of the year despite the persistent severe macro-economic challenges and their extraordinary impact on industry volume adjusted diluted EPS excluding currency increased by 10.9% in the quarter.
A key driver of our performance has been the strength of our brand portfolio despite its strong premium skew in a weak economy.
We have strong market share momentum in the majority of our main markets with the key exception of Japan and the Philippines where the issues are known.
In the quarter our market share increased in the EU EEMA and Latin America and Canada regions while the international share of Marlboro excluding China and the Philippines increased to 9.3%.
Our quarterly share in Asia was impacted by the timing of our shipments in Pakistan as well as the share losses in the Philippines.
On a year-to-date September basis our international share excluding China and the Philippines is stable at 26.7%.
The second key driver has been pricing.
During the third quarter we achieved a pricing variance of $488 million bringing our total pricing variance for 2013 to over $1.5 billion.
This compares favorably to the $1.3 billion achieved during the same period in 2012 and significantly more than offset the $900 million in unfavorable volume mix.
In addition to the substantial amount of pricing taken at the beginning of the year we have increased prices in a number of markets since May.
These include Argentina Australia France Germany Indonesia Kazakhstan Russia Spain and Ukraine.
Strong pricing coupled with the timing of certain cost items enabled us to increase our adjusted OCI margin ex-currency between the first half and the third quarter of this year from 45.2% to 47.5% behind a strong expansion in the EU EEMA and Latin America and Canada region.
We anticipate a strong fourth quarter.
The adjustment to our reported diluted 2013 earnings per share guidance today reflects the impact of changes in exchange rate and estimated fourth quarter charge for restructuring and the cautious outlook regarding certain markets.
In July we forecast a reported diluted EPS guidance for 2013 of $5.43 to $5.53.
Today’s guidance includes an additional $0.02 in unfavorable currency at prevailing exchange rates for a total of $0.33 per share for the full year.
This also includes approximately $0.03 per share for a fourth quarter charge related to the restructuring program that we announced at the end of last month and the $0.01 charge related to the American Tax Payer Relief Act of 2012 which we reported in the first quarter of 2013.
Our reported diluted EPS guidance for 2013 is now $5.35 to $5.40.
Excluding currency and the aforementioned charges this represents a growth rate of approximately 10% compared to our adjusted diluted EPS of $5.22 in 2012.
Let me now review a number of our key geographies starting with the EU region.
While unemployment continued to rise throughout 2012 in the 28 EU member states it has remained stable this year at an average rate of 10.9%.
However unemployment has continued to increase notably in France and Italy.
Despite a continued weak macroeconomic environment the rate of decline in cigarette industry volume has gradually moderated throughout the year.
After a decline of 10.6% and 8% respectively in the first and second quarters cigarette industry volume in the EU region declined by 5.4% in the third quarter helped by the reduction in the excise tax differential between the cigarette and fine cut in several Southern European countries and stabilization in the prevalence of illicit trade albeit at a high level.
For the full year we are still expecting total cigarette industry volume to be down between 7% and 8% while fine cut industry volume should be up slightly.
Going forward we expect market declines to remain above historical level until European government successfully tackled the issue of unemployment and the illicit trade and consumer sentiment and purchasing power improved.
Our business fundamentals remained strong across the EU region.
We have gained share so far this year in all of the six largest cigarette markets in the region namely France Germany Italy Poland Spain and the U.K.
In addition we have successfully leveraged our cigarette brand in the fine cut category gaining one share point year to date September on a regional basis to reach 14.4%.
While our OCI excluding currency remained below last year level through September it increased by 5.4% in the third quarter and we expect an improvement in profitability in the fourth quarter.
Our four key brands Marlboro L&amp;M Chesterfield and Philip Morris continued to perform well.
They all gained cigarette market share in the EU region in the third quarter.
During the quarter the share of Marlboro was higher notably in Belgium France Greece Italy the Netherlands Poland and Spain; a remarkable result in view of the economy while L&amp;M was the fastest growing brand in the region as a whole in terms of market share.
I will complete my overview of the EU region with an update on the status of the Tobacco Product Directive.
The European parliament debated the proposal last week and accepted several amendments.
The parliament notably agrees to a 65% health warning rather than the proposed 75%; that flavored cigarettes including menthol variants should be prohibited after a transition period of five years following the transposition of the TPD; that slim cigarettes should continue to be allowed and that e-cigarettes would not be treated as medical devices but rather be more strictly regulated under the TPD with higher nicotine thresholds than originally foreseen.
We welcome these marginal improvements but regret that the European Parliament voted to ban an entire segment of the legal market despite the inevitable increase in illicit trade that this will fuel.
They have failed to provide a comprehensive framework for reduced harm products and have continued to include oversized health warnings without any apparent concern for property rights that the EU Charter protects and restrictions on pack formats.
Finally the proposal still contains an unworkable and discriminatory anti-illicit trade solution which adds complexity to the legitimate supply chain without addressing the core problem.
The next step is for the European Parliament the Council of Ministers and the European Commission to reach a final consensus.
While the timing remains uncertain the TPD is expected to be adopted before the end of this year or during the first quarter of 2014.
There will then be a period of 18 to 24 months for the Directive to be transposed into national legislation at the Member State level so that it may become effective across the EU by the end of 2015.
Let me now turn to the two key EEMA markets starting with Russia.
We implemented an additional price increase of 4 rubles per pack during the June-July period on most of our brands thus enhancing unit margins.
Due to the higher prices a deteriorating economic environment and the implementation in June of workplace smoking restrictions there was an acceleration in the rate of cigarette industry volume decline in the third quarter to an estimated 9% mainly impacting the super-low segment.
For the full-year we expect industry volume to be down by about 7% to 8%.
Our market share performance continues to be resilient in spite of competitors again lagging our price increases this year.
Our August year-to-date market share was 26.1% down by 0.1 share point with Parliament in particular performing very well in the above premium price segment.
Despite the lower volume our strong pricing enabled us to increase our profitability ex-currency at a double-digit rate in the third quarter.
In September the Russian Duma approved the excise tax rates on cigarettes for the period 2014 through 2016.
In line with expectations the ad-valorem rate will increase from 8.0% to 8.5% next January while the specific excise tax will increase from 550 to 800 rubles per thousand cigarettes.
The pass-on for Marlboro would be around eight rubles per pack or approximately 11%.
The increase in the specific excise tax is 45% in 2014 while the increases in 2015 and 2016 are slated to be 20% to 25%.
In Turkey cigarette industry volume declined by an estimated 5% in the third quarter.
Illicit trade declined only marginally from the second quarter.
For the full year we are forecasting an industry volume decline of around 7% to 8%.
Our business fundamentals remain strong with sequential volume improvements.
Our market share was up by 0.1 point in the quarter through August to 46.1% with further gains from premium Parliament and at mid-price Muratti.
Both Lark and L&amp;M suffered some share erosion at the 6.50 Lira per pack price due to the rapid emergence of a 6 Lira and below per pack segment.
This was partly offset by our successful launch of Chesterfield at 6 Lira.
The brand achieved a 1.2% market share in August just three months after its introduction.
Finally Asia where I will start with the Philippines.
Tax-paid industry volume in the third quarter declined at a rate of 6.7% to 23 billion units and this in line with the second-quarter trend and a significant improvement over the first quarter decline rate of nearly 40%.
However Nielsen consumer uptake adult smoking incidence and adult daily consumption data indicate that cigarette consumption is essentially stable while down-trading has been significant.
The difference can be explained by the huge under-declaration by our main local competitor.
While it increases its tax declared volume from an average of 500 million units per month in the first quarter to 1.1 billion units in the second quarter and 1.4 billion units in August we estimate that this represented less than half of the volume it showed during this period.
The retail price of its main brand Mighty has remained as one peso per cigarette.
This is an economically unsustainable level when paying full taxes.
We continue to work with the Bureau of Internal Revenue and Bureau of Customs in our government authorities to address this issue.
During the third quarter we started to reduce our pricing support behind fortune and especially our lowest price brand.
As a result our monthly volume declined and our share of the tax paid market drop from 82.5% in the second quarter to 77.2% in the third quarter.
We will continue to statistically balance the volume and profitability equation but until the authorities address the issue decisively the Philippines will remain a significant challenge.
Let me now turn to Japan where cigarette industry volume was down by just over 1% in the third quarter and remains on track to decline by about 2% for the full year.
We have Tokyo objectives in Japan to reinforce our leadership in the growing menthol segment and to improve our performance in the larger non-menthol segment.
To address the latter we launch a new smoother tasting Marlboro (inaudible) September.
This was to widen the feel of the brand to mainstream non-menthol adult smokers and improve Marlboro’s relatively small 6.2% share of this segment.
We still accounted for 73.7% of the total market (inaudible) September.
Our market share decreased by one point in the third quarter to 26.5% reflecting the impact of competitor’s launches in the second quarter on Marlboro’s menthol segment share and continued our switching from the more traditional (inaudible) and Philip Morris non-menthol volume.
Marlboro’s market share of 12.2% was however in line with the previous quarter held by the launch of Marlboro clear.
This new (inaudible) strengthened our pipeline of consumer relevant innovative offers should enable us to gradually stabilize our market share in Japan.
Our optimizes is backed by the gradual reduction in the quarter-to-quarter share decline during the year and positive preliminary adult consumer update data for September.
Earlier this month the Japanese government confirmed its intentions to raise the consumption tax from 5% to 8% in next April.
The percent for Marlboro would be about ¥14 per pack.
But keep in mind that any price increase in Japan requires approval from the Ministry of Finance.
Let me now turn to Indonesia where the economic slowdown and the increase in the cost of basic foods and fuel impacted the cigarette industry which grew by just 0.03% during the third quarter.
As a result we are now expecting full year industry volume growth to be about 2%.
The pressure on consumer purchasing power has be most acute around the lower income strata resulting in 7.6% quarterly decline in cigarette volume in the low price segment while the premium at this price segments were PMI index grew by 3.5% and 1.4% respectively.
This development (inaudible) growing adult consumer preference for machine (inaudible) has enabled us to continue to grow share.
Sampoerna A and U Mild gained 0.6 points and 0.9 points respectively in the quarter.
In addition Marlboro has strong momentum.
It gained 0.5 point to reach a quarterly share of 5.4%.
Meanwhile (inaudible) has lost share since it became the first major brand to move about the (inaudible) price point ahead of competitive brands.
We have continued to increase prices on a regular basis and it has now fully offset the impact of the January export tax increase as well as higher clove cost.
Effective October 1 the government enacted an amended regulation that addresses the loophole whereby large manufacturers could spread their production volume across sister companies and benefit from lower excise tax rates.
This will affect around 2% of our volume while the impact will be much more significant for several of our competitors.
We await the government’s decision as to whether the regular annual excise tax increase will be eliminated in 2014 or at least moderated to take into account the anticipated imposition of a new regional tax of 10%.
Let me also say a few words about the exciting business development projects that we have recently completed.
The purchase of the remaining 20% interest in our Mexican affiliate for $703 million closed in the third quarter.
This is a profitable 34 billion unit cigarette market in which we achieved a 72.8% market share through September this year.
Marlboro had a 51.7% share over the same period one of the highest in the world.
The acquisition is projected to be marginally accretive as of the fourth quarter this year.
The second deal that closed during the third quarter was the acquisition of a 49% stake in Arab Investors-TA for $625 million.
Algeria is a profitable $30 billion unit cigarette market in which we achieved an estimated 40% share this year through September driven by Marlboro.
This investment significantly enhances our prospects in this important North African market.
The agreement also opens the door to additional business opportunities in certain other North African and Middle Eastern markets such as Egypt.
The acquisition is projected to be accretive as of 2014.
Our free cash flow was up by 45.5% excluding currency in the third quarter due mainly to a reduction in working capital and higher net earnings.
In September this year our Board approved a 10.6% increase in our quarterly dividend which now stands at $3.76 per share on an annualized basis.
It has more than doubled since the $1.84 rate at the time of the spin.
Our target dividend payout ratio remains 65%.
This reflects our strong confidence in our business fundamentals and future prospects.
Our dividend yield is currently around 4.4%.
We spent a further $1.5 billion on share repurchases in the third quarter and expect a similar level of expenditures in the fourth quarter.
By year end we will have spent about half of the $18 billion three-year program that was authorized by the Board in August 2012.
Since the spin through this September we have repurchased 539 million shares representing approximately 26% of our shares outstanding at that time at an average price of $60.02 per share.
During this time we have been able to sustain our very solid balance sheet and remain committed to maintaining our single-A credit rating.
In conclusion our business fundamentals are solid and our commitment to reward our shareholders remains steadfast.
Despite persistently difficult macroeconomic conditions our third quarter results were in line with our expectations and we anticipate a strong fourth quarter.
We have updated our guidance to reflect prevailing exchange rates and the fourth quarter restructuring charge as well as a cautious outlook regarding certain markets.
Our 2013 reported diluted EPS guidance is $5.35 to $5.40 and represents a full year growth rate of approximately 10% excluding currency and charges compared to our 2012 adjusted diluted EPS of $5.22.
Thank you.
I will now be happy to answer your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So Jacek I guess first question is is just looking at the Asia region and I think at the corporate level the pricing variance was very strong but within Asia I think sequentially the pricing variance actually decelerated.
So I’m wondering if you can just give us some perspective of how much pricing you've taken in Indonesia what was the timing of that and then how much of that was offset by the Philippines lowering other price and how we should think about that in the fourth the quarter? Is this something that we'll continue to drive down to fourth quarter or is it the timing of the Indonesia pricing such that pricing actually accelerates in the fourth quarter and does that help your margins in Asia? It might just (inaudible) could give you some color.
I mean Asia if I exclude Philippines Asia margin for the quarter essentially would be flat so the Philippines is driving the margin performance in Asia in the quarter.
Pricing wise I mean Indonesia is going as per planned as you know we have a regular pretty often I should say as the price increases there.
And as we said on the second quarter call around this time of the year we should offset the pressure from offset the impact excise tax and clock prices.
So Indonesia now is in a positive territory when it comes to margin improved that should remain like this for the remaining fourth quarter.
One thing which we have to remember which we don't have in Asia is that lack of pricing in Japan right.
So that is something which just appears from time to time.
Okay.
And then just following up in Indonesia can you just give us your thoughts on the likelihood of the new website tax going in Indonesia next year and then just in light of the magnitude of the potential excise tax can increase if all of that goes through next year how you are thinking about kind of the volume outlook as we go into 2014 and your ability to pats on the pricing in Indonesia.
Well I mean pricing Indonesia remain strong for this and in the previous year so despite the tax increases and also the price on the input cost but I mean I don't see today anything on a horizon which were to put that question mark on our ability to price in Indonesia.
So pricing remains strong in Indonesia.
What we know at this stage is that there will be local tax of 10% increase to the current rate under the question is our national government will like to put something on the top of that and (inaudible).
I think at this stage I think it's more of a speculation.
I'm we'll know for sure what is the tax for Indonesia by the end of November that is on a pricing in Indonesia.
I mean last question (inaudible) just looking at the volume decline obviously in EEMA and Ukraine first just in terms of the outlook for those market you've kind of given the rest of this year but is this illicit trade situation really a problem that you think will continue to impact as we get into 2014 and then I think there are some charter about the government potential looking at reversing excise tax increases or were there plans to reverse the excise tax increases unless we are given the illicit trade ramp up so I'm just wondering if you have any thoughts on that prospect? Hi (inaudible) there is more of these show really situated in Ukraine than in Russia.
In Russia we started of serving some incidents I think of about 3% as of second quarter in Russia.
I think it stays about the level that actually is better reason for Prime Minister being interviewed in which we think that might be the issue to looking to the tax rate growth of the tax rate in the three year plan.
For a time being what we know is that the tax will be the specific component and a little bit of that will go up in January next year; this will create a pass on or for the pass on the (inaudible).
And then if you follow the three year plan the remaining three year the platform should be 5 and 8 so 5 in 2015 and 8 in 2016.
So for me it might be pretty much a speculation today but I think they are more refers to the tax increase in the last year of the three year plan and on the third year of the plan.
We are also watching I think it's a very welcome by art I mean Russian government started watching how their prices is compared to the surrounding conflicts which we know also plays the factor in any incentive if you like really sits straight.
So now as long as a Russian government on alert and they try to think proactively I mean we very much welcome this development.
Okay.
Got it.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Adelman with Morgan Stanley.
Hi Jacek.
Hi David.
Couple of questions.
First of all Jacek what’s the prospect that in trying to manage the business in what’s clearly a difficult macro and difficult volume environment that you feel that in retrospect six months from now nine months from now that you haven’t done sufficient -- either sufficient marketing in certain of the markets or that maybe that you in retrospect will push pricing a bit too hard? No.
My spent behind the brands is I mean for the total year my spent will be above the last year’s level.
I mean we -- I know that we have some comps -- various competitions this year I mean quarters-on-quarters but over -- for the full year we will actually invest more than the last year.
And as you will see also from our brand portfolio perspective I mean if the brands wouldn’t grow market share we would -- if they would be lacking any investment.
So I think we are doing right job is the deployment in the commercial organization the number of innovations which we are bringing behind the Marlboro and all other brands I think that -- the brand portfolio in terms of the equity the help of the brands I think might be a strongest year we ever had since the spin of how the portfolio performs.
Now you mentioned the macros which we had there are macros in a country.
They are not macros on a global basis.
So we need to start looking into this a little bit more selectively because yes there was a bit of acceleration in Russia for the wrong reasons.
Yes we have a big challenge in -- major challenge in Philippines but we also have a markets frankly speaking where the total industrial volumes are growing and there is uptrading.
So I would be very careful how we talk about the thing the macro does not necessarily mean global.
Okay.
Second question Jacek presumably your budgeting is not done for next year you don’t know all of the excise tax increases that you would necessarily face and I am not asking for a specific prediction? But broadly speaking what’s your confidence level today looking out to next year that the company can deliver financial results that are consistent with the mid-to long-term plans that you have? Well it is pretty challenging this year as many have noticed and we still have in our guidance today we said that we are going to deliver approximate 10% growth.
So and we have the number.
We had a number of challenges this year.
Some of them may fade out some of this may continue next year.
I think when I feel strong when I feel confident is the number of quarters which we demonstrated the dollar brands are very strong including Marlboro despite the adverse microeconomic in some countries especially European Union.
Pricing power I mean you have seen our pricing power for the first three quarters of this year is $1.5 billion I mean that is very strong and that remains and I don’t see anything on the horizon which could challenge this one.
I think a tax structure is applying into our hand and frankly speaking at this stage we are not aware we don’t feel that there was any attempt to have a disruptive tax increase in the near future.
So there are a number of factors which plays into our hand.
Total markets are priced driven by various factors in some geographies may continue through the 2014.
I mean this we’ll have to see.
I mean you notice that EU is getting sequentially better and better but I don’t see under like data which would give me more opportunities.
I am referring to unemployment because employment is spread like pancakes since January this year although the industry volumes development is encouraged.
But I think I need another quarter or so and then we will be more confident to say more firmly how do we expect our performance for ‘14 and beyond.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer with Citi.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Vivien.
I wanted to touch on price elasticities globally given some of the buy downs that you have seen across some of your major market and Indonesia really comes to mind.
I am curious I appreciate that inflation is becoming a bigger and bigger issue but have you noticed the deterioration in your price elasticity as well? No.
I think on a global basis where the elasticities are between minus 0.3 to minus 0.5.
This is -- and in some countries you will see the higher elasticities but they are driven by the fact that the consumers disposable income is on the negative side right.
So in the real terms our price increases may trigger the higher elasticity.
I think Italy Spain and a couple of the Southern European countries they presume (inaudible) in a heightened elasticity levels just because there was an erosion on the disposable income.
Indonesia as you referred to I don’t think we have the (inaudible) would be fairly in the range which I gave at the beginning.
So for Indonesia I mean it’s the third guide down in terms of your outlook for volume growth in that market in roughly four months.
So in your mind then it’s strictly that inflation has just gotten that much worse that quickly? (Inaudible) have a different (inaudible) inflation and the food inflation and I think the food inflation impacts more in relative terms some of the consumer growth therefore we see the volumes in the lower part of the market actually declining and the volumes in the premium segment going up to make the total market growing.
I think you will have a different elasticity defined on the -- again on a disposable income of consumer.
I think the underlying grade for Indonesia the growth rate for Indonesia for the summer December in the range of … maybe about 2%.
I mean this (inaudible) from the demographic and some positive GDP per capital -- develop.
Okay thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Hi good morning Jacek.
Good morning Chris.
Good morning.
So I just have a couple of questions for you.
I wonder as first of all to Philippines it sounds like there has been some sequential improvement in tax collection there.
You gave some number on that which is great.
And so if you have any color on that and basically what's going on in the market? My following question for that would be the tax increase goes -- there’s a tax increase in the Philippines next year as well.
It’s more heavily focused on the low end.
If they’re going to see something like that to help move those low end prices up was there enough that government can do in this (inaudible) to get more tax collection among these low price brands?  Yes.
That’s true that there was an increase in sequential tax collection.
But you know the vision in Philippines is not about the colleting more taxes but collecting the right amount of taxes.
If somebody is paying more but they’re still under declaring frankly speaking of a little hedge so the same sort of a tax evasion or cheating or whatever is the appropriate word for the situation.
Now there is a tax increase next year.
I think partially also why we are now moving with the prices up is to (inaudible) in the lower prices at the bottom of the market and waiting for the government to take the actions there the government was immune by the fact that I was paying the taxes on a lower price portfolio.
One of my competitors was not paying.
So I think partially as going with the prices they’re bringing the government into the play because somebody is going to also suffer by not collecting the taxes.
So we see how those (inaudible).
I mean Philippines remains challenging.
But situations might change in Philippines.
The government is really decisive and its Law Enforcement Act enforcement authorities are decisive.
They can fix the problem in a month.
But we have to wait for this month.
Okay.
And I had just one more question for you just sort of a broad question.
You had a set of investments in several key markets that started last year.
You’ve now wrapped a lot of those investments.
I guess as we see softer volumes is that indication that the investments weren’t enough that you need to invest some more? I’m just trying to look ahead and think about what you can do to help spend some of the declines in volume is it something you can do from an investment standpoint more about the total market decline? No I see the softening of my market share as the market shares decline.
I think it would be an indicator for me that I am underinvested with regards to that support.
My investment marketing sales investment et cetera I mean in cannot mitigate the impact of the total market decline especially that in some countries I am competing with illicit products.
I mean that’s not a function of the marketing investment (inaudible).
As I said with the earlier question this year we’re going to spend more than last year (inaudible) in the quarters.
But the market share advancement of all of our brands most of our brands including Marlboro in a number of the geographies I mean it’s the best testimony that we’re doing the right thing and we’re supporting the brands in the right way.
Okay thank you for your answer Jacek.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog with Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Hi Bonnie.
I guess I’m still trying to understand how realistic your 10% EPS guidance is given what this implies for volume growth in Q4.
In other words I think your volume growth needs to be positive in the quarter with pretty strong pricing to get close to your revised 10% EPS guidance.
So how realistic is that for you to generate positive volume growth and then I guess what gives you the confidence that this is achievable? Well my total volume outlook for this year -- the total PMI’s volume outlook for this year is about in a range which we will have now for the nine months.
So I think it is about 3% ex-Philipines there is about our volume outlook.
Pricing will continue as you’ll see quarter after quarter we’re delivering strong pricing.
There were some prices which were into some places we’ll implement the pricing in the third quarter.
So that will have a full benefit in the forth quarter plus as we said that the earlier -- at the Q2 call we’ll have some better comps on the cost side.
So I feel very confident that we will deliver the forth quarter.
Although we’re fully aware that the fourth quarter growth rate will be significantly higher than what we had demonstrated in the third quarter.
But this is all going as per plan as you remember I have started from the beginning of the year was that we’ll have a low start over the year and in the second part of the year third and the forth quarter this is where we expect to deliver the growth of this whole year.
So everything’s falling in mind relative to your expectation? Yes.
Okay.
And I guess just my final question I think is the EU Directive decided not to ban e-cigs as medicine.
So I’m curious how does this change your thinking on the category and your timing for entering if at all? Well I mean we -- you know about our plan right that we said that we are working on three platforms and we’ve showed that we aim to 216 217 for this whole commercialization.
I think we stay on track with this one.
I mean the directive -- what we’re missing in the directive is a little bit more time spend -- just later and trying to figure out what the frame work legislation should be for us meeting new product being e-cigarettes or others new generation products that modified to risk tobacco product into the market.
The lot of focus was to spend on some other elements which I don’t think addressing really public health council which directive was suppose to authorize that the whole novel product territories are not fully addressed.
But yes I mean if a good development that the e-cigarettes will be in the tobacco product directive rather than under the farmer’s legislation we will see.
Also the other reasons I can’t talk where we would enter the market and how we could accelerate our entrance to the market but we are very excited about this category working on our plan on -- we’re making a progress in accordance with the critical part delivering the clinical status.
We are searching the consumers and organizing our -- building our capacity to be on time of -- everything goes okay maybe ahead of time with the products in the market.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Leinster with UBS.
Morning gentlemen.
I’ve got a few questions actually.
According to me the market volume guidance was 2% for the full year seems to imply as to 3% to 4% in the last quarter I mean is there any reasons the industry volume should improve quite rapidly in the forth quarter after relatively weak third quarter? And secondly the Italy was quite a major -- market volumes down 4% in the third quarter.
So quite a significant improvement than what we’ve seen in the past.
Is there some particular fact behind that and do you expect that to be sustained with recent sort of that increases.
Is that -- is that likely to deteriorate again? Okay.
I may start with Italy.
I may Italy -- yes it has had some improvements in the decline rate of the total industry volumes.
I think what we have said also in Italy is a little bit of less of illicit product and I think it also partially might have contributed to the better results in the quarter.
We will have to see what -- how that thing how the lower incident of illicit product versus the beginning of the year as you remember I think they had spike to 11%.
This lower illicit incidents I don’t know how long it’s going to stay.
So that may support the volumes.
I mean as the VAT increase I mean it's an average sort of government trying to impose some extra taxes and are hoping for the better consumption.
So that's a little bit not very welcome but let's see how does it unfolds in Italy.
In Indonesia I think there are some seasonality also behind the quarters and I think this is what drive us to believe that we will have a Indonesia will deliver on above the 2% for the full year and are little bit calls for the better or stronger volume performance in the fourth quarter of this year.
Thank.
Then we just going back to the Philippines you are low with prices; I'm just going to get the timeline right.
So you are low with prices in Q2 and then what that's appeared in Q3 did you actually sort of increased them again? We lowered prices actually we start lowering the prices at the end of Q1.
We were in full fledge in the Q2 and I think towards the end of the Q3 we started moving the prices up.
So certainly in the end of Q3 you started raising them.
So in spite with the price reductions really didn't help at all in terms of market share.
There was a down trading.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Thilo Wrede with Jefferies.
I saw that German course have spent the use of it (inaudible) campaign in Germany how does it impact your business? They've banned some execution aspect of that campaign.
But now considering you know that's available to our (inaudible) it's how we're going to go forward because we are pretty confident that we have not violated in local legislation.
I don't think -- you know that the other forms of the market going to support to brand which we can continue delivering there because they are just questioning some aspect of that campaign.
So I don't think we'll have a -- we should have any negative input of a suspension of this executional element of this company.
Any concerns that other European cords will pick the same line of argument? Well I mean Germany is one of the few if not the only one country in the year which still allows you to bill board right so they were questioning the bill board and so I think (inaudible) commercial in was with the other European countries the campaign is being delivered to consumers more for the one to one and other means.
So no I don't think have any repercussion in the remaining European countries.
And then I've also seen reports out of Australia the convenience stores are now reporting an increase in illicit trade after the standard packaging and all that went into effect at the beginning of the year are you seeing the same thing? We are seeing the same thing.
I don't have the hard data but the early information which we received from our obsolete in Australia indicates that there was about illicit traded about doubled versus what it used to be before the implementation of (inaudible) on illicit trade but I'm not extremely surprised by this because we taught that the play impact may facilitate the illicit trade and fortunately this is happening.
Do you think that the fact that the data is now starting to come out and make the legal challenge easier? Well sorry the data will -- I think on the illicit trade will come out soon once it's started out to confirm.
I mean this speculation -- I mean we've -- when it comes to our claim under the VAT VAT in Hong Kong I mean that we are progressing there as per the calendar but yes I mean there is enough element which we have been raising with the government before the playing packaging is not addressing consumption frankly speaking it will not get the total volume developments in Australia.
You don't see any declines in total volumes as you have the appear of the heightened appearance of illicit trade and I think also you might say that you see some acceleration in the down trading.
This is all as we were saying this will be the impact of a playing packing.
Okay.
Thanks.
(Inaudible) Okay Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lavery with CLSA Hello.
Just back on the Indonesia for a second.
Obviously the inflationary pressures are some of what’s slowing category growth but it also was the easiest comp of the year in the third quarter? What did it look like sequentially was there improvement coming out of the quarter I guess I want to understand a little better where the strength would come in 4Q because that was one of the toughest comps last year as well? Well usually I think the first quarter in the Asia was the strong quarter that is what I was referring that there is some seasonality impact et cetera which you have in Indonesia.
So therefore yes we expect the stronger quarter this year.
As I said earlier I don’t think that the growth rate of the industry in the third quarter is underlying growth rate of the industry right.
I think the underlying growth rate is a closer to 2% about 2%].
So yes you will have the fluctuations between a quarter.
No.
I understand that I guess but the two things I am trying to get out is if there’s seasonality but it’s -- a stronger growth rate in the fourth quarter does that give more and more exaggerated every year? And then just back to the third quarter can -- do you have any visibility on what the progression was throughout the quarter was it same down in July and then flat in August and up whatever percent in September that you can see the consumers adjusting to the inflation pressure that some of that momentum should continue into 4Q? Well consumer are adjusting to that inflation pressures I would just say earlier I mean you have a different rate sorry different impact by consumer income classes okay.
So if you have a second I think it was second spike in a food inflation this year one was at the beginning of the year one was in the third quarter well this has an impact on the consumption levels in the lower price classes presumably more on the daily consumptions of smoking incidence but this is what we have serve.
So there will be adjustments in this -- in the consumer pattern.
So that’s of -- that is on the volume side this will happen.
Okay.
And then just on Japan for a moment you reminded us that the Ministry of Finance needs to approve the price increases which is of course true? Are you worried about getting that approve at all or you -- was that just stating that term kind of highlight the procedures involved? The role in Japan that if you want to change the prices you have to seek the approval of the Minister of Finance so that’s going to stay also some Prime Minister and others have publicly I think before when the discussion was about the sales tax that talking about the fact that it wouldn’t like necessary to spike inflations while having the sales tax increase.
So we will have to see.
We have not filed for the tax -- for the excuse me for the price registration in Japan and there is still a time before the sales tax is implemented.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then I just want to make sure I have one clarification earlier in the call but as you said you expect profitability improvement in 4Q was that versus 3Q '13 or versus 4Q ’12? I was referring to the growth rate of the EPS ex-currency in the fourth quarter over fourth quarter.
Okay.
And then just lastly following upon e-cigarettes I understand you have your next-generation products that you’re developing and the EU TPD doesn’t really directly involve I think I don’t believe? But just in terms of e-cigarettes and then having what’s impact maybe little bit more of a Regulatory Green Light? At what point do you consider that a threat enough if those keep growing that you would want maybe getting involved in something on earlier timeline than your NPGs with something like in e-cigarette is there a launch you would consider obviously you’ve got the U.S.
market where the big three are getting involved and Lorillard is coming to the U.K.? Do you think that’s a place that you want to play or you intend to just wait for the next-generation products that you have coming? I’d said we are very closely watching the developments in the category.
I think between the reasons why we said earlier that we’re working on the three platforms and one of the platform is essentially in the territory of e-cigarette is that we believe there will be a reason there will be a market for all three platforms.
Now the question still remains and if you look at the performance of e-cigarette category a lot of attention is more on the marketing side side and to our knowledge that the tension is on the product side.
I think what is extremely important is in our (inaudible) strategy is to get to the product right.
So I don’t think -- I’ve said it on a number of occasions it’s not that you need to be first to the market you need to go to the market with the right product.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bloomquist with Berenberg.
Hello.
I was hoping you could comment on Russia in particular and why the premium shipment volume was down so severely in the third quarter (inaudible) were down 17%.
That seems a bit odd with what's been relatively stable to rising trend for the mid to higher price segments.
So I was wondering if something had been going on there that would explain that as an aberration or is that something that we should be considering as something that could have some continuing effects? The difference between our shipments to the distributor versus what is happening in the market so the companies would (inaudible) these issues.
Now if you look at the total market size in Russia maybe to give you a more color on this one I mean the market was down about 7.9% if I remember correctly for the quarter.
If you look at the composition of the decline about up to 17% of the decline came from the low price segment but the value went about -- the value (inaudible) in a premium segment they declined by a little bit by less than 3.5%.
That’s 3.3%.
So you could see that the (inaudible) segments in Russia are doing relatively well.
This price impacted the (inaudible) price increases and the lower segments have the more ease under more pressure.
But again I think it has been the same explanation to the use for Indonesia.
I mean a different consumer growth that impacted differently by the price increases.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Oksenhendler with Bank of America.
Hey good morning Jacek.
Good morning.
I just had a question regarding Japan in terms of the pricing that you would consider taking; have you thought about I guess which brand may get which level of pricing? I think you mentioned that it’s ¥14 per pack.
But I think you want to probably increase it in ¥10 increments.
How much -- is there a focus on maybe your price gaps versus (inaudible) and which brands will get what level of pricing? (Inaudible) we have decided our pricing strategy and I think it wouldn’t be appropriate for me to comment further on this at this time.
Okay.
And then just regarding the illicit trade that you’re seeing in certain countries like -- Turkey you said it’s still pretty bad maybe you’ve got a little better sequentially.
Ukraine and Russia are still also pretty bad.
Does it have to get worse maybe before the government really steps in there and it actually starts to get better?  No actually I mentioned earlier (inaudible) referring also to some incidents higher incidents of illicit product tobacco illicit products and I think alcohol and that the government is considering now the option how to tackle the problem at the early stages is very welcomed.
I wish many other governments would act so promptly when the problem is small rather than let the problem to grow to the almost in some places difficult to manage the levels.
Ukraine is a little bit of a different story.
Ukraine is also the story of the counterfeit products not only illicit product.
So every country has its own sort of the background in that.
Turkey sequential there was a slight improvement.
We know from the part of the Turkish government was highly very decisive and acted very promptly to address the issue which they can repeat more of the same.
So let’s wait.
Okay thanks for that and just my last question.
Is it possible to get some insight in terms of what the FX impact would be overflowing to fiscal ’14? I think you’re (inaudible) some yen hedges as well as can you give me -- give us some magnitude of what you see in fiscal ’14?  it will may continue to next year depend where the yen is going to look.
Our issue is when we will revise the forecast now -- guidance now is essentially not because of yen is very much because of developing currency -- developing countries currencies.
So I think Indonesian rupiah was the biggest driver of our revised currency guidance -- variance guidance.
All right guys.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from line of David Hayes with Nomura.
All right gentlemen.
Hi.
Just in terms of coming back to the underlying EPS cuts since the second quarter.
You’ve obviously called out Russia is little bit worse since then Indonesia as well Turkey looks a little bit better EU about the same.
I just wonder whether there is anything else outside of those markets it was driving that slightly low underlying EPS outlook that we haven’t spoken out.
And then I guess related to that in terms of the Russian side of things.
You mentioned in the second quarter stage despite the volumes down more than you expected you still saw profitability you said explicitly the profitability will be up year-on-year on the slide it wasn’t there this time.
I just wonder you can confirm that you still see profitability in Russia itself being up for the full year? Thanks very much.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean we see the profitability in Russia being very strong year-on-year as we demonstrated in this quarter.
In terms of the countries or the market reach we referring now at the guidance.
I think yeah it’s Philippines which is on the list.
In the Japan share of market since we had okay sequentially we’re still seeing stabilization in Japan but yeah we lost that one share point one full share point on a quarter.
The Indonesia total market is softer in terms of the growth rate that we initially thought for the full year so we’ll have to acknowledge that one.
That’s about it.
I think the main drivers.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your final question comes from the line of Chris Burritt with Bloomberg News.
Thank you for taking my questions Jacek.
First I wanted to ask about… My pleasure.
… in light of your recent success in Thailand and postponing the placement of those big health warnings on packages.
What’s your -- what’s PM’s outlook for regulatory efforts in emerging markets? Which markets do you see your biggest threats on that front? Frankly speaking it is not much that we cover more news on the regulatory front because yes I mean the TPD the regulatory developments which we’ll have to wait there’s still a few months until we see what is the final conclusion on this one.
And yes I mean here and there you might have some regulatory initiatives but nothing actually on the horizon which would not allow me to sleep at this stage.
Okay.
And if I may ask one last quick question a bit of an oddball given the rise in the popularity of electronic cigarettes hear in the U.S.
what’s the policy for PM in terms of employees in your New York office consuming e-cigs.
Is that always been allowed to something you’re allowing now given the popularity what are you guys doing with that? Well our New York office is a non-smoking office.
This is for the convention of cigarettes.
I know myself that presumably you will see me on number of occasions and I’m smoking my NGP.
I think we would have to -- it's much more to that element of how disturbing you’re actually for others around you.
It’s more of the matter of a heart disease than defining in the policy.
Thanks for your time.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
That was our final question.
Now I’d like to turn the floor back over to Nick Rolli for any closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
That concludes our call for today.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact the investor relations team here in Switzerland.
Again thank you for joining us and have a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Philip Morris International Fourth Quarter 2013 Full Year Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Philip Morris International management and a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Media representatives on the call will also be invited to ask questions at the conclusion of questions from the investment community.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Nick Rolli Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead Sir.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we issued a press release containing detailed information on our 2013 fourth quarter and full year results and you may access the release on our web site at www.pmi.com.
During our call today we will be talking about results for the fourth quarter and full year 2013 and comparing them to the same periods in 2012 unless otherwise stated.
Our references to PMI volumes are to PMI shipments industry volume and market shares are the latest data available from a number of internal and external sources.
Net revenues exclude excise taxes operating companies' income or OCI is defined as operating income excluding general corporate expenses and the amortization of intangibles plus equity income or loss in unconsolidated subsidiaries net.
Our OCI growth rates are on an adjusted basis which excludes asset impairment exit and other costs.
Data tables showing adjustments to net revenues and OCI for currency asset impairment exit and other costs free cash flow calculations and adjustments to earnings per share or EPS as well as reconciliations to U.S.
GAAP measures are at the end of today's webcast slides which are posted on our web site.
Today's remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results.
I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statements disclosure in today’s presentation and press release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections or forward-looking statements.
It's now my pleasure to introduce André Calantzopoulos our Chief Executive Officer.
Jacek Olczak our Chief Financial Officer will join André for the question-and-answer period.
André? Thank you Nick and welcome ladies and gentlemen.
As expected we finished 2013 with a strong fourth quarter.
While our cigarette volume declined by 1.9% excluding the Philippines our net revenues and adjusted OCI increased by 2.5% and 12.7% respectively excluding currency.
Most importantly our adjusted diluted earnings per share grew by 19.4% on an ex-currency basis.
Our results were strong across all four regions.
Adjusted OCI excluding currency increased in the fourth quarter by 2.6% in the EU region 22.5% in EEMA 7.4% in Asia and by 34.9% in the Latin America and Canada region.
On a full year basis EEMA and Latin America and Canada grew adjusted OCI at a double-digit rate in 2013 excluding currency.
For the full year 2013 our reported diluted EPS reached $5.26.
This includes the $0.10 charge for the restructuring of our business in Egypt which we announced last week as well as $0.04 in charges that we had previously disclosed.
Consequently our adjusted diluted EPS was $5.40 in 2013.
Excluding the unfavorable currency of $0.34 per share this represents a growth rate of 10% compared to the previous year's adjusted diluted earnings per share of $5.22.
Currencies particularly in emerging markets continue to be extremely volatile.
At prevailing exchange rates we project $0.71 in unfavorable currency in our EPS guidance for 2014.
Emerging markets account for nearly 60% of this total.
The fact that we are currently hedged for approximately 60% of our forecast sales to Japan with an effective rate of ¥ 95 to the $1 is included in this projection.
Our results confirm that our business fundamentals are robust.
However as I outlined in November we expect to continue to face specific challenges in 2014.
Those affected our full year 2013 results.
Furthermore we intend to make significant investments in and increase expenditures behind our reduced-risk products in preparation for city pilot tests later this year and our first national launch in 2015 as well as additional investments behind our current portfolio.
Our reported diluted EPS guidance for 2014 at prevailing exchange rates is in a range of $5.02 to $5.12 versus $5.16 in 2013.
Our 2014 guidance corresponds to a growth rate excluding currency of approximately 6% to 8% compared to our adjusted diluted EPS of $5.40 in 2013.
Japan is projected to remain a challenging market for us in 2014.
The government is increasing the consumption tax in April from 5% to 8%.
The related retail price pass on is around ¥ 14 per pack.
We have applied to the Minister of Finance for approval to increase the prices of our Marlboro Lark and Philip Morris brands by ¥ 20 per pack and other brands by up to ¥ 10 per pack.
Subject to approval by the Minister of Finance the new prices are expected to take effect on April 3.
The new prices are expected to result in a slight acceleration of the total market decline to around 3% to 3.5% in 2014 compared to the 2% decline of 2015.
Our overall market share declined in 2013 from 27.7% to 26.7% and to 25.9% in the fourth quarter.
This was driven principally by the success of new competitive products in the menthol segment and was somewhat distorted by the pipelining of competitive product launches in the fourth quarter.
Marlboro remains resilient and should be boosted by the rollout of the Don’t Be A Maybe Be Marlboro campaign that has been successful in numerous markets in the European Union and other regions.
We also have plans to introduce various new product offers under the Marlboro and Lark trademarks.
Barring any unforeseen adverse competitive price reaction we expect that these launches coupled with increased spending to support them should enable us to stabilize our market share during the year.
However we do expect that our 2014 average share will be below the 2013 average.
The second challenging market in Asia is the Philippines.
We estimate the local manufacturer Mighty Corporation is producing about double the volume that it declares to the Bureau of Internal Revenue.
This has prevented us from being able to operate on a level playing field and continues to result in a significant tax revenue loss for the government.
The planned implementation of a system of fiscal stamps in the second quarter this year will hopefully help to address this issue.
We are continuing to encourage the authorities to act decisively and welcome the decision of Congress to hold hearings on this matter as well as the decision of the Bureau of Customs to suspend the license of Mighty Corporation to operate a customs bonded warehouse.
Since the end of November we have seen the Mighty brand stick price gradually rise from PHP1 to PHP1.50 and the Marvels brand stick price rise to PHP1.25.
This is a positive development.
However their Marvels brand is still selling at a wholesale price of PHP183 per carton which is below the PHP191 required merely to cover the new excise tax and VAT enforced as of January this year.
We do not know at this stage how Mighty Corporation intends to reflect the new tax levels.
On the demand side the good news is that while tax paid industry volume was down by 15.6% to an estimated 86.3 billion units in 2013 Nielsen data indicates that there was only a minor decline in actual consumption.
Adult smoking incidence and adult daily consumption remained at similar levels in the second half of 2013 to those that prevailed in 2012.
In light of the significant tax driven price increases incurred by Marlboro and Fortune total consumption was sustained by adult smoker down-trading to the then PHP 1 per stick price segment.
This super-low price segment increased its share from 17.1% in the fourth quarter of 2012 to 41.2% in the same period in 2013 mainly at the expense of our premium and mid-price brands.
While we have enforced our segment participation our overall market share in the fourth quarter declined by 14.9 points to 72.3%.
Our ability to enhance our profitability through higher prices remains constrained by the flexibility that Mighty Corporation derives from its tax under declaration.
In the meantime the investments we are making to defend our business are shared with our partners.
We continue to hold a clear leading share in the market - in a market where annual adult consumption is estimated at around 100 billion units and we have the brand portfolio and the national distribution to take advantage of the planned future tax equalization.
We thus remain optimistic that once the current hurdles are overcome the Philippines will be a significant contributor to our profit growth in the region.
While discussing Asian markets let me provide an update on Indonesia where total industry volume increased by 1.9% in 2013 to an estimated 380 billion units.
The slower industry volume growth can be in large part attributed to the economic slowdown and the impact of higher fuel and food prices on lower income adult consumers.
In fact during 2013 the volume of premium and mid-priced cigarettes increased by 5.2% and 3.4% respectively while the volume of low-priced brands declined by 6.6%.
In 2014 we expect industry volume growth to moderate to around 1% due to the weaker economy and expected significant price increases in the low price category following the introduction of a new regulation restricting the preferential tax treatment of so-called sister companies.
In 2013 our market share grew by 0.5 points to 36.1% driven by the strong performance of our lighter-tasting machine-made kretek brands Sampoerna A and U Mild as well as by Marlboro in the White segment.
In the fourth quarter their share growth was more than offset by a weaker performance of our hand-rolled kretek brands Dji Sam Soe and Sampoerna Kretek due to the segment's decline and the fact that they both sell currently at disadvantageous price points compared to competitive brands.
In 2014 we expect to benefit from the continued growth of the lighter-tasting machine made kretek segment which increased by 1.9 points to 40.5% last year in which Sampoerna A and U Mild had a growing 46.4% segment share.
In addition we are gaining share in the full flavor machine-made kretek segment with Dji Sam Soe Magnum.
Finally we believe that the government's introduction in January of a regional tax of 10% should be manageable as it equates to a pass on of between 3% and 6%.
Let me now turn to the European Union region.
In the fourth quarter cigarette industry volume in the region declined by 5.8% at rate of decline similar to the third quarter reflecting a tangible moderation compared to the trend we witnessed in the first half of 2013.
Illicit trade appears to have stabilized albeit at a high level.
The expansion of the fine-cut category has slowed given the compression of the tax and price differential with cigarettes.
Finally while still expanding in some markets such as France Spain and the U.K.
the growth in demand for electronic cigarette in the region as a whole has decelerated.
We therefore expect cigarette industry volume trends to show an improvement compared to the 7.5% decline in 2013 and are currently forecasting a decline in 2014 in a range of 6% to 7%.
The improvement is taking place in an environment where excise tax increases have been reasonable and structural improvements continue to take place.
One market of concern is Italy where the predominantly ad valorem structure is encouraging the growth of a super-low €4 per pack price segment and eroding the tax revenue base of the government.
We hope that the Italian government will rapidly address this issue and implement the necessary tax reform.
Until this materializes we will prudently balance the delicate price volume and profit equation in Italy.
In 2013 we increased our overall market share in the European Union region by 0.5 points to 38.5%.
This was driven by the strength of our brand portfolio with Marlboro L&amp;M Chesterfield and Philip Morris all gaining share in the region.
We expect this momentum to continue as our market share grew further to 38.6% in the fourth quarter.
Our share gains are very broadly based.
We increased our market share in each of the six largest cigarette markets by volume in the full year 2013.
Our continued share momentum positions us well for 2014 and we expect to be able to again outperform the industry.
I would also like to highlight our strong performance in the EEMA region notably in Russia.
Our strong pricing actions enabled us to continue to significantly expand our profitability in 2013 even though cigarette industry volume declined by an estimated 7.6%.
Despite the slower implementation of new retail prices by some of our competitors we recorded only a modest share decline of 0.3 points to 26.1%.
This was achieved in particular by the continued outperformance of above premium price Parliament.
In January of this year the government implemented the next planned and largest excise tax increase resulting in an average pass on of RUB 8 a pack.
In anticipation we increased most of our maximum retail selling prices by RUB 9 per pack in December last year while prices will only go up at retail later this month.
For the full year 2014 we expect to continue to expand our profitability at a high single-digit rate even though cigarette industry volume is expected to decline by between 9% and 11% reflecting price elasticity illicit trade and a weaker economy.
Cigarette industry volume in Turkey was impacted by significant trade loading at the end of 2012 and by an increase in illicit trade in 2013.
As a result industry volume declined by an estimated 7.6% last year while we estimate that the underlying decline was approximately 3.5%.
Provided there is no further increase in illicit trade we expect underlying cigarette industry volume to stabilize in 2014.
Our share has remained resilient in the face of increased price competition in the low and super low price segments with a decline of just 0.2 points to 45.5% in 2013.
We successfully line extended Chesterfield into the super low price segment and continued to improve our mix.
Thanks to the success of Parliament in the premium and Muratti in the mid-price segments.
This January the government increased the specific excise tax and the minimum tax while maintaining the ad valorem rate unchanged.
This resulted in a pass on of around TRY 0.28 per pack at the retail level.
We increased the prices of our brands by around TRY 0.5 on average thus boosting our unit margins.
We achieved strong results across our Latin America and Canada region with share gains in Argentina Brazil Canada and Colombia and a stable 73.5% market share in Mexico.
Looking at our top 30 OCI markets worldwide we increased our share in 2013 by 0.5 points to 34.9%.
Our market share grew or was stable in 23 of these markets further emphasizing that our underlying business remains strong.
Marlboro has been a key driver of this excellent share momentum.
In 2013 excluding China and the Philippines Marlboro gained share in all four regions with a particularly strong performance not only in the EU region but also in the Latin America and Canada region and across North Africa.
Our strong market share momentum should enable us to improve our volume performance in 2014 and outperform the industry.
In 2013 we estimate that global cigarette industry volume excluding the U.S.A.
and China declined by 3%.
This year we are forecasting a decline in a range of 2% to 3%.
Pricing was the key driver behind our income improvement excluding currency in 2013.
We achieved a pricing variance of $2.1 billion.
This was above our historical average reflecting the timing of tax driven price increases and unusually large gains due to inventory movements most notably in the Philippines.
In 2014 we expect these gains to be lower.
Consequently the first quarter's EPS growth rate excluding currency is expected to be below our average for the year.
Please note that as of today we have implemented or announced almost 60% of the pricing that is built into our 2014 earnings per share guidance.
While revenue growth remains the key driver of our business growth we continue to be very focused on cost controls and productivity gains.
Our adjusted OCI margin increased by 0.6 points in 2013 excluding currency from 45.4% to 46%.
This is in part attributable to the successful completion of cost savings and productivity improvement programs which generated over $300 million in 2013.
We target a further $300 million in annual productivity gains in 2014 which should moderate inflationary input cost increases.
We have recently completed four business development projects that will be accretive to earnings in 2014.
We repurchased the remaining 20% shareholding from our business partner in Mexico.
We took a 49% participation in Arab Investors-TA which is involved in the manufacturing and distribution of international brands of cigarettes in Algeria.
We purchased a 20% shareholding in our Russian distributor Megapolis.
Finally we have restructured our business in Egypt to enhance our growth and income potential in this 80 billion unit market.
These business development projects are expected to have a net positive EPS impact of approximately $0.10 in 2014.
In 2013 we increased our free cash flow excluding unfavorable currency by 11.8% to $9.4 billion.
As foreseen the growth rate exceeded that of net earnings driven largely by a reduction in working capital.
In 2014 we expect free cash flow to be unfavorably impacted by currency and a foreseen increase in working capital at the end of this year attributable to the timing of excise tax increases and related inventory movements.
We remain committed to generously rewarding our shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
In September last year we increased our dividend by a further 10.6% bringing the cumulative increase since 2008 to 104.3%.
Our target dividend payout ratio remains an attractive 65% and our dividend yield last Friday was 4.8% Last year we spent $6 billion to repurchase 67.2 million shares.
We also spent over $2 billion on the four business development opportunities that I described.
As a result given both the projected significant unfavorable currency impact on our reported results in 2014 and the fact that we are approaching the high end of the ratios supporting our credit rating we are scaling back our target share repurchases in 2014 $4 billion.
Please note that the rating agencies use different methodologies some preferring to use gross rather than net debt measures and some weighting the company's cash position differently from other.
As we emphasized last November 2014 is going to be a pivotal year for reduced risk products our greatest growth opportunity.
Last month we announced that we are building a new manufacturing facility near Bologna Italy.
That along with a pilot plant in the same area will provide an annual capacity of up to 30 billion units.
The associated capital expenditures of up to €500 million are within the previously disclosed range of €500 to €600 million.
This year we will obtain the results of the clinical trials that we started in 2013.
The data from these studies will be an essential part of our evidence package to substantiate the use of our Platform 1 product results in a biological impact profile close to that of cessation.
During the first half of this year we will continue with our perception and behavioral studies and finalize the packaging and labeling anticipation of planned city pilot tests in the second half of 2014 and our first national launch in 2015.
In addition we plan to enter the electronic cigarette market during the second half of 2014.
As previously disclosed we will increase our reduced risk product-related expenditures in R&amp;D operations and commercial activities by more than $100 million this year in order to meet this accelerated schedule.
In conclusion 2014 will be a very important year as we increase our investments behind both our conventional and our reduced-risk products.
The outlook for the Philippines and for the EU region as a whole is improving while Japan remains a significant challenge.
We enter 2014 with robust fundamentals and good market share momentum behind our superior brand portfolio led by Marlboro.
In addition our profitability will benefit from the four business development projects that I outlined.
However currency volatility in emerging markets has increased significantly and we are only one month into the year.
Our expectation is that we should be able as of 2015 to meet our annual currency-neutral net revenues and adjusted OCI targets.
Of course the level of our share repurchases will depend on the impact of exchange rates the interest rate environment and corporate tax reform here in the U.S.
There are a number of important factors that underpin our belief sequential improvements in the performance of challenging markets in particular the Philippines further structural improvements in excise tax systems notably in the EU region; a superior brand portfolio led by a reinvigorated Marlboro; strong pricing power based on our brands an increased focus on cost controls and productivity gains and our commercialization of reduced risk products.
Finally our strong free cash flow will be used to reward our shareholders through general dividends and share repurchase programs.
Thank you.
Jacek and I will now be happy to answer your questions.
Thank you.
We will now conduct the question and answer session of the conference.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is coming from the line of David Adelman with Morgan Stanley.
Hi André.
A couple of quick things André.
First on the dividend.
It's obviously a Board decision but do you think there is a willingness this year to further take the payout ratio above the 65% target so that there could be dividend growth?  David you said it yourself.
It's the Board decision.
However the Board takes into consideration a number of factors 65% target being one.
Clearly if you look at our history we have a history of rewarding generously our shareholders even in turbulent times.
That's what I can tell you.
Okay.
Then Andre in the Philippines you gave a lot of statistics and data but could you explain? If you don't look necessarily at declared tax volume by your competitor what really ultimately matters to you right is what's being reflected in the marketplace in terms of competitive pricing and if you were to benchmark Mighty's price point versus Marlboro or Mighty's price point versus Fortune's how much progress has there been made? How much more evident does it appear if there is competitively reflecting reality?  David clearly there is an improvement as I also said in my remarks.
Clearly we are seeing [the price] [ph] of the Mighty brand greater than 70% of the portfolio of Mighty Corporation going up to PHP1.50 although the price per carton does not yet reflect the second excise tax increase if we speak about reasonable economic returns.
What has also happened is they left behind one of their brands called Marvel that represents 30% of the portfolio and roughly 6% to 7% of the market.
Until this brand also goes to the right price point and price gap clearly we are also obliged to maintain some presence in the segment.
In summary this is all about achieving the right price gaps as I have previously explained but in general to fix the price gaps either you do it from the top or from the bottom it appears that some progress is made to achieve this from the bottom.
We need to wait until the new tax is reflected across the Mighty Corporation portfolio.
Then as I said there may be some upside in there.
Now they are still under declaring from what we understand based on mix and tax stamp [inaudible] a very large part roughly half of their volume which helps them subsidize the lower price but there is progress.
There is increasing pressure on them.
There are hearings in the Congress and also the fact that they lost their bonded warehouse which we understand they were used to kind of declare that the products or the raw materials are for exports but essentially been used locally so that the pressure is mounted.
We are kind of optimistic but we'll know better as the year unfolds.
Also to say if we look at the outlook for next year clearly I think in terms of Philippines probably we'll reach the bottom of the negative impact and we can only go better next year both in comparative and even in absolute terms.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Okay.
Thank you.
I wanted to ask you first André in relation to the Philippines and having the government pressure in the company.
Obviously the price point still being too low but can you give some information about the warehouse being shut down and taken the license away.
Is that not forcing like in a more immediate movement by the company to raise prices at retail.
That's not happening as quickly as you maybe thought it would?  Difficult question to answer.
Yes.
The pressure should be there because it's becoming extremely visible to the general public and the media so we should expect some move but we need to see this move.
That's all.
Okay? Now the other limitation on the Philippines that I explained in previous times is that over the long-term the tax system clearly is locked in our favor because it closes the gaps top to bottom in a normal operating market and also allows us as the two tax tiers equalize to unleash a bit more pricing power of the mid-price brand because today the mid-price brands are down.
By the way the excise tax or the price of the different excise tax tiers is calculated which as you take the retail price you remove VAT and the excise tax and government ignores completely the retail margin which as we know is pretty hefty up to 20% and that's the price and that ex-factory price that determines the price tier which are classified and we have to be very careful on how much pricing we can take for Fortune for example not to jump in the upper tier.
As the two tiers close over time one or two years then you have much more pricing power from that perspective.
Other development also that is positive in the Philippines good at least is that there will be pack stickers implemented towards the end of the first half of the year and we have to see how this impacts Mighty but definitely is another positive to us so that's why longer term we are very optimistic about the Philippines but still this year it has the impact I described on our profitability it was about [inaudible].
Okay.
That's good color.
Thank you.
I just had a quick follow-up question for you on Japan.
Understand that you are calling it still a significantly challenged market I think it was the term you used.
It seems like they are going to get some pricing through that.
I just want to be clear is that going to be more than the tax increase? And if that is the case even if it declines a little bit more than the 2% underlying rate wouldn’t that make for a better Japan in 2014 maybe that which you assume before?  This is very early days in Japan.
We have submitted our request to the Ministry of Finance but it is subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance.
If that holds and we hold it well yes it will give some positive pricing in Japan.
However we need to put this in the context of and that depends also what other competitors are doing of some additional potential impact on our share and also the fact that we may need to put some promotional additional money to support that price level.
Again it's early days.
It's subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance but there is some small upside over there.
Okay.
Thank you very much for the answers.
Our next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Hi everyone.
André we can appreciate the fact that you are willing to invest more into the business in 2014 to compete more effectively in some of your challenged markets.
If I take a step back though one of the drivers that's causing you to perhaps spend a little bit more is maybe the emergence of some of the newer competition whether it's the local discount player like Mighty or JTI getting more aggressive in Japan or you've got the illicit trade that's picked up? I just want to get your perspective on why you think you are confident that the spending you are making in 2014 is really enough to put you in a position to compete more effectively to drive the company to grow in line with your long-term target in 2015 and beyond.
Okay.
First of all the investment as we described is one part is going behind our reduced risk product okay? Clearly this is longer term as we were starting some volume in this product [in 2013] [ph] okay.
Now regarding the existing business of course there is need for investment in Japan and that is also to support our product introductions at the Marlboro campaign and other initiatives that I described.
Some other markets where business needs are we are ramping the investment.
For example Indonesia okay? That's part of that normal business spending.
Clearly the investment in the Philippines is another type of investment.
It's not a promotion or a marketing investment.
It's more investing in our margins by holding the right price gaps and that's where the big investment is.
As I explained this one I believe this year clearly we see the bottom of the problem and we can grow significantly out of this just remaining flat year-to-year in the Philippines in terms of profitability it will increase by 1% of growth [it just swings] [ph] 2 growth points okay.
I think also that for 2016 one element is our cost base in terms of manufacturing cost will gradually improve.
Already if we see the growth of our manufacturing cost it was 3.8% in 2013.
It's going down to 3.2% this year and will further decrease next year and that's a positive addition.
The conditions in Europe I think will slightly improve.
We still have strong price base and we have a number of portfolio initiatives including new initiatives on Marlboro I will describe in more detail in CAGNY.
All that makes me fairly confident that after 2015 we can reach our revenue and operating companies' income target.
And I don't even take into consideration Japan which can certainly improve compared to the impact we have this year as we are lapping the year where the actual product introductions happened in Japan and where Japan Tobacco got their fair share of excitement which I remind everybody that were not existing before.
Thank you.
Okay.
Then just on the share buyback outlook for 2014 I can appreciate you're sort of looking at the rating agencies and the metrics that they looked at.
We also looked at your stock price and valuation and it seems like really an opportune time if – certainly if the fundamentals are improving as we expect them to that it might be more of an opportune time to get more aggressive on the buyback.
So I just want to understand kind of your thinking process on the moderation in terms of the buyback.
Is it really the currency issue? Are you willing to take on more U.S.
dollar-denominated debt to kind of fund the buyback? What's sort of the thinking process there?  Okay.
I mean currency clearly plays an important role here.
Different agencies look at ratings in different ways as I said ranging from total debt to EBITDA to net debt or adjusted net debt and one element in the adjusted net debt is that rating agencies start taking cash abroad at a discount because I mean applying a theoretical say corporate income tax rate if that cost were to be repatriated in the U.S.
so that reduces the capacity and you can do the math very easily yourself.
The currency impact we just announced at prevailing rates that is to stick for the year.
It's at the cash flow levels it's roughly $1.1 billion and at your EBITDA level is $1.3 billion $1.4 billion so that takes a lot of share repurchase capacity out and as the year unfolds we need to reevaluate the situation so the other thing we need to note is we had $2 billion of business development projects that we just accomplished and frankly speaking they're much more accretive to the shareholders than the share buybacks.
The 2 billion I'd say that's the $0.10 accretion that you called out in the…?  It is net.
It is the net? Okay.
It is net of the impact it has on the lesser share repurchase.
Understood.
Okay.
Got it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jon Leinster with UBS.
Good afternoon Gentlemen.
Just sort of a bit of a follow on.
Just to clarify again.
Apologies for this one on the share repurchase.
When you say getting towards the high end of your ratios for the credit rating agencies do you mean that that by the end of 2014 you'll be towards planned and/or currently believe and therefore in essence you're flagging that perhaps in 2015 they'll have the cash returns or – will have to be more in line with cash flow and leverage held sort of more flat in 2015? Is that a reasonable assumption?  Well first of all our current ratios are already at close to the upper end and had we continued with the $6 billion share buyback we will have exceeded the ratios during the year if the currencies remain where they are today.
Okay? This is one of the reasons because what I would reiterate is that we want to absolutely maintain our rating.
We had to moderate our share repurchase product.
Now looking at 2015 is a bit early days to say exactly what the target share buyback is going to be.
I mean I would like to see how the situation in the currencies unfolds during the year and then we'll take a decision later on.
It's a bit very early to call it.
I mean clearly we are [Inaudible] share buybacks and the corridor in which we operate is on one side a credit rating upper limit and on the other side 100% cash outflow to the shareholders through dividends and share buybacks and we will always operate within that corridor in the future.
That depends on currencies interest rates and longer term tax reforms in the U.S.
I'm stating the obvious.
Okay? But you are going to maintain that credit rating?  Yes.
Okay.
Secondly the Latin America or/and Canada region in the fourth quarter looks very strong profit performance in the fourth quarter.
Is there anything can you detail anything in particular that's behind that? Particular market or.
It's a bit across the market okay? It's also depending on the timing of price increases in Argentina as we know Argentina is an inflationary environment and we need approval from the Ministry of Finance all the time the Minister of Economy.
So sometimes we have a delayed approval and that's partially what happened also in last quarter.
We got the approval later so we had to time differently the price increases.
Got it.
Lastly just on the EU if you see EU volumes are down sort of 5.5 or thereabouts in the second half of 2013.
Why do you expect to get somewhat worse in 2014 sort of six to seven?  This is the best we can see to-date okay.
There is still some pricing that has to take place.
The situation clearly looks slightly better last two quarters and I hope it's going to be confirmed in the first quarter 2014 okay? So that's the forecast to the best of my knowledge to-date.
There's no change in terms of there's no obvious signs that the governments particularly in Southern Europe are cracking down on illicit or something's changing in the market?  We don't have the latest latest figure of the global survey in the European Union.
What I hear from the different markets it seems to have stabilized.
Clearly it has improved in Italy.
It's slightly up in France but we see stability although the base remains high so I think that if it doesn't get lost during the year and frankly we don't have disruptive taxes in the European Union.
Maybe we'll be slightly better but today I cannot confirm that.
I want a quarter more to be in a position to confirm.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Erik Bloomquist with Berenberg.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Firstly with respect to the foreign exchange headwind could you break apart in that 13% or $0.71 how much is transactional and within that how much is related directly to Japan.
Then with respect to the transactional component at prevailing rates is it fair to think that that would disappear in 2015?  Okay.
Look I can't give you the absolute precise number for the breakdown between translational and transactional.
I think [Inaudible] 20% but Jacek is here.
He can give you a breakdown.
No.
You are right.
André is right about last year.
It's about 80% of our import was coming from translations and the remaining 20% was the transactional.
With regards to the impact our $0.71 per share currency impact about 30% of the $0.71 versus the last year is coming from yen and 70% is essentially across all currencies and then there is a strong impact coming from Indonesian rupiah ruble Turkish lira and a number of other currencies.
Okay.
Thank you.
Then with respect to the plain packaging I was just wondering if you could comment on an article that appeared in The Scotsman suggesting that PMI was suggesting if plain packaging was passed in Scotland that country could be liable for GBP 500 million in compensation for the intellectual property.
I was wondering what does that imply.
Then if plain packaging goes forward in markets like Ireland and the U.K.
can we gross up the amounts that might be expected based on the volumes there.
Then just wondering what the status was of the WTO challenge and the BIT arbitration? Thank you.
Okay.
The article you are referring to Erik I have no idea.
Frankly speaking it is pure speculation because I haven't seen or articulated any related number.
Okay first of all we are far away from being in this situation as you know both into the U.K.
and Ireland.
It's just political talk for the time being and I don't see any new evidence has appeared in the horizon to justify even the U.K.
reopening the issue.
Now coming to the real concrete case we have in front of us which is Australia.
Okay? If you look at the facts in Australia is that plain packaging has no impact on prevalence or incidence after a year it is in the market okay? I don't know where you can find stronger evidence about the impact and yes we see a little bit of down trading but we had foreseen this and that's part of what we explained in the BIT case.
Regarding the cases WTO is proceeding and the BIT case if I'm not mistaking a fresh hearing after submissions of written arguments from both parties is towards the end of February actually this month so we will see how this unfolds.
As we always said this is not a process that is going to take months.
It's going to take still a year-and-a-half two years okay?  Okay.
Thank you.
My last question then was with respect to illicit and I was just wondering I appreciated the comments on illicit in Europe but how would you characterize it globally for PMI's markets? Related to that what are the prospects of recapturing illicit volume and what are the factors necessary for that? Thanks.
Look the only outburst of illicit is clearly the Philippines okay? I think I have explained lengthily the situation.
We are all aware of the problem but that's illicit trend in a different form.
That's a form we see increasingly in some places and that's probably the form that is the easiest finally to address because it takes action from the government.
A painful process in the Philippines but that can be addressed.
For the rest of the illicit trade which is essentially illicit wide we always said that the best way to address this is through the supply chain and especially asset in total and I think we are making very good progress in that area.
Not yet done but the progress the awareness amongst the companies that produced in their efforts fairly confident and hopeful that by the end of the year we'll see tangible results.
That’s one of the best ways to tackle illicit trade.
I think that our prospects to reduce the illicit trade our objective is over the next one to two years to stabilize it and we are working with many governments as you know around the planet to achieve this and then gradually reduce it but even stabilizing it is a great thing to achieve.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Thilo Wrede with Jefferies.
Andre I think this time last year you had already 75% of the pricing that you needed for your guidance.
I think you just said that you are now at 60%.
Can you give us the details why it's so much lower?  Nothing particular that I can point to okay? As we said last year we had a bit more of inventory movement in the Philippines that was lower this year because the tax increase was lesser.
That’s one thing and the rest is pure timing.
Indonesia is every year is the same.
We start with the tax at the beginning of the year and gradually increase so nothing particular to worry about.
We shouldn’t read into that you are may be taking a more cautious approach to your pace of price increases.
I think our pricing policy is very simple.
We take a lot of factors into consideration affordability price gaps excise tax and our pricing is every year very strong.
I think I explained in my remarks there's slight differences compared to this year.
Okay and then the other question I had in your conclusion of your prepared remarks.
You pointed out that you expect to get back to your normal growth rate for revenue and operating income in 2015.
You didn't mention EPS.
Is there a reason for that?  EPS depends on our share repurchases okay? That's the bridge and I explained what are the driving factors behind our decisions in share repurchases so in any given time we may be slightly above or slightly below that bridge.
As I said it is too early to call next year okay? Understood.
Okay.
That's all I had.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lavery with CLSA.
We've covered Philippines fairly well but I just wanted to get one more question on that about the Marlboro flavor code launch in Mindanao.
Have you seen that have a big impact there? Is it helping drive share? What's your thinking about how that's positioned and how it's working so far?  Early days.
The launch is both tactical and strategic so it's not meant yet to be expanded so we will see how it reacts there but that's kind of hedging also the price gaps in the Philippines.
Thank you.
That's helpful.
In terms of margins or the cost structure how different is it and what kind of impact does it add to the mix of your business?  I can't answer by heart these margins.
The margins are not very different but this is a very small volume okay? So I don’t think that impacts our margins.
Cut to skin in the Philippines as I said by maintaining artificially low price for a period of time brands like Jackpot for example where we have to subsidize to a large degree the excise tax and that’s much more impactful and it would correct this that will swing the profitability much more than Marlboro flavor code.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Then just looking at Indonesia in its 3Q when the inflation pressure on the consumer was the strongest and the category growth was the weakest you gained share sequentially and year-over-year even despite having such a premium skew to your portfolio.
Can you describe what changed in 4Q that would have gone down and what does it look like going forward? Is there some new competitive launches that are driving it or what are the big factors there?  Well I think the important thing is the performance as I said in my remarks of Dji Sam Soe and Sampoerna A the two hand rolled kretek brands but cost during the middle of the year the price points and competitive brands in the same category have not yet crossed that point.
I don’t know exactly their pricing but logic says that during the second half of this year they should cross that point and should help our share.
Okay? For the other brands in the portfolio are doing very well.
And as I also said we are increasing the marketing support of the brands so I'm fairly optimistic about the share situation in Indonesia.
But isn't likely to have pressure in 1H '14 driven from those two brands until the price points on competitors cross some of the same thresholds?  I didn't hear the question?  You said that the competitors price points are likely to catch up crossing some of the same thresholds in the second half of this year so is there likely still a lot of pressure in the first half? How do you see that playing out?  I don't know how competitors are pricing.
I cannot predict this obviously but Indonesia in general the tradition is as I explained previously that at the beginning of the year your price is covering the excise tax increases and then you get net pricing during the year.
You always have gradual pricing in Indonesia during the year okay? As the year unfolds we have our plan for pricing.
I would expect also given the excise tax and continued pressure from the clubs other manufacturers are going to have a similar approach.
So yes we will be probably under some pressure for the next few months but overall we can see moderate share gains during the full year.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Clove prices I know were in issue last year.
There is not a whole lot of visibility on those but it does look like they are down from the peak levels pretty nicely.
How are you positioned there? Is that a tailwind in 2014?  I wouldn’t say they lower in rupee terms.
Clearly the evaluation in dollar terms they have come a little bit down.
Now the purchase has happened in the market.
We are quite I would say lucky this year that we had second year of a very decent cold but if you look at the impact on us we had a very big impact on our costs in 2012 '13 is going down and as we annualized the inventory replenishment the impact is going to be even lower in comparative terms next year so we our other price stability and our price is going down.
Okay.
That's great.
Thanks.
Then just back to Japan pricing.
Could you give a sense? I know you talked about how it looks like the applications you've put in should give some net pricing.
What's the split in the portfolio? Is my math about right that that would be around the 4-ish percent increase? If so how much of that do you see maybe being at risk of trading down? If your applications are approved what kind of net pricing do you think you might be realize?  Yes.
Day one if you do the math it's 4%.
You are right but then way also there Ministry of Finance is looking at areas what the end result is going to be including share some down trading from that portfolio.
As I said previously there will be some share movement.
As I also said we will put some additional promotional money for a period of time.
Overall if these prices are accepted we will have some net positive.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer with Citi.
My first question has to do with Indonesia.
I mean I think it seems reasonable enough to expect that that market will decelerate a little bit further into 2014 but can you offer a little bit more detail about kind of how you are thinking about the macro landscape in that market just to give us comfort on that plus one given kind of the challenges you had with guidance in that market last year.
Specifically are you expecting a reduction in the subsidy for fuel because there's some chatter about that in the market.
Okay.
Look the positives about Indonesia is it has positive demographics.
Also I think long-term account it has a lot of potential and we have seen that there is up trading this year last year and I expect up-trading to continue this year.
We had some particular issues.
The first one is the disappearance of the low tax tier but in a shortcut we call the sister companies.
That has a 3 billion cigarette impact on us and we have discontinued these brands actually but other competitors are much more affected.
Clearly it's either discontinue these brands or you take very substantial price increases which I think is reasonable to assume it will have some impact on total market this year.
Okay? This is one of the key factors why we have predicted its prediction 1% total market growth.
The other one is the devaluation of currency is bringing inflation and many of the goods in Indonesia including fuel are important so we are seeing some inflation happening.
That’s again unfortunately hit the low end consumers.
If we see some deceleration is at the low price segment and bigger the factor that I can describe today but long-term as I explained I think the country has tremendous potential.
Understood so just to clarify the embedded in your guidance is there no expectation for a change to fuel subsidies.
It's just the inflation?  To be honest with you Vivien I don’t take the fuel subsidies actions because I don’t know how to factor the mean but try to bake in all this factors I described and that’s the best guest we have.
Okay.
That's reasonable.
Yes complicated math to be sure.
Turning to Russia really quickly you called out price elasticity is one of the factors driving the 9% to 11%.
I just wanted to clarify is it just normal price elasticity or is it a change in price elasticity in Russia that’s causing your outlook for downturn for industry volumes at the mid-point?  I think if I recall correctly we took a slightly higher price elasticity given the magnitude of the increases.
We need to look at the history of Russia where with a tax plan which is very welcome because it gives us predictability.
We had three subsequent years of a substantial tax and price increases so it's not only one year.
Its three years.
I think it's reasonable to assume some higher elasticity.
Now whether 9% to 11% is the final number we'll see as the quarters unfold okay? I want to remind you two things.
First that this is the last year of large tax increases and we should be looking at a better tax environment although continuously predictable as of 2015 and beyond.
Secondly despite this projected quite large volume decline we also as I said in my remarks foresee a pretty substantially profitability growth in Russia due to margin improvement.
Understood.
A follow-up on Russia.
Embedded in that outlook are you seeing any negative impact to volumes from the implementation of wave one of the indoor smoking bans in that market?  Marginally it's always the case.
We have put this in our guidance obviously okay? We also have as I explained previously this year the disappearance of kiosks.
Although it's difficult to say that this will have an impact on total consumption we have to see also what it really does in terms of impact on consumers but always it's part of our estimate.
Wonderful.
Thank you very much.
Our final question comes from the line of Ryan Oksenhendler with Bank of America.
Good afternoon guys.
André question I guess going back to like the long-term targets in 2015 and I guess even beyond that.
In November you laid out the potential adult user base and margin potential for reduced risk product.
When thinking about your growth targets for OCI so I guess EPS will be impacted by FX but is getting back to the target growth rate contingent upon the success of reduced risk product or is that incremental?  If we look at 2015 clearly a contribution of reduced risk products is rather de minimis and we will be in investment mode because of the expansion or introduction of reduced risk products for the next two three years okay? Reality is for the time being the investment is going against our numbers so at least once we come even and breakeven on this the rest is incremental.
For the time being we are negative on reinvestment you appreciate that.
You feel still comfortable about your targets in '15 and '16?  Yes.
Got it.
I would leave it there guys.
Thanks.
That was our final question and I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much for joining us.
That concludes our call today.
If you have any follow-up questions the Investor Relations team is currently in New York.
As André reminded you our next presentation will be at the CAGNY Conference on Tuesday February 18<sup>th</sup>.
Thank you again and have a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's Philip Morris International fourth quarter 2013 full year earnings conference call.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Good day and welcome to the Philip Morris International First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Philip Morris International Management and the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Media representatives on the call will also be invited to ask questions at the conclusion of questions from the investment community.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Nick Rolli Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead Sir.
Welcome and thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we issued a press release containing detailed information on our 2014 first quarter results.
You may access the release on our website at www.pmi.com.
During our call today we'll be talking about results for the first quarter 2014 and comparing them to the same period in 2013 unless otherwise stated.
References to PMI volumes are to PMI shipments industry volume and market shares are PMI estimates based on the latest data available from a number of internal and external sources.
Net revenues exclude excise taxes operating companies' income or OCI is defined as operating income excluding general corporate expenses and the amortization of intangibles plus equity income or loss in unconsolidated subsidiaries net.
OCI growth rates are on an adjusted basis which excludes asset impairment exit and other costs.
Data tables showing adjustments to net revenues and OCI for currency asset impairment exit and other costs free cash flow calculations and adjustments to earnings per share or EPS as well as reconciliations to U.S.
GAAP measures are at the end of today's webcast slides which are posted on our website.
Today's remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results.
I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statements disclosure in today’s presentation and press release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections or forward-looking statements.
It's now my pleasure to introduce Jacek Olczak our Chief Financial Officer.
Jacek? Thank you Nick and welcome ladies and gentlemen.
Our business results in the first quarter are in line with the 2014 annual guidance that we shared with you in February.
The quarter was impacted by a number of distortions that marked a much better performance at the net revenue and OCI level.
Our business fundamentals remain solid and we are making progress in addressing the issues that we highlighted in February.
Today we are increasing our reported diluted earnings per share guidance for 2014 at prevailing exchange rate to a range of $5.09 to $5.19 versus $5.26 in 2013.
Our revised guidance includes $0.61 of unfavorable currency at prevailing exchange rate compared to the $0.71 previously disclosed and a $0.03 restructuring charge related to the closure of our manufacturing facility in Australia.
We have taken $0.01 of this charge this quarter to cover the cost of employee separation and expect to subsequently incur an estimated $0.02 of additional anticipated restructuring charges.
Our 2014 guidance represents a growth rate excluding currency and this restructuring charge of approximately 6% to 8% compared to our adjusted diluted earnings per share of $5.40 in 2013.
During the first quarter cigarette volume declined by 4.4% driven primarily by total industry volume contraction and unfavorable inventory movement.
We estimate that absent this inventory distortions our underlying volume was down by around 2%.
Net revenues and adjusted OCI both excluding currency declined by 1.6% and 3.1% respectively.
The lower revenues and OCI were attributable to Japan and the Philippines both of which were also impacted by timing distortions.
Net revenues and OCI excluding these unfavorable distortions as well as the impact of the change to PMI’s new business structure in Egypt were essentially stable.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share increased by 4.7% excluding currency.
Pricing was the key driver of our solid performance and a key reason why profits were impacted by a difficult year-on-year comparison.
Our pricing variance reached $406 million in the first quarter of 2014 compared to $531 million during the same period last year when we benefited from favorable pricing related to inventory movements in a number of markets and in particular in the Philippines following the very large January 2013 excise tax increase.
Since December of last year we have taken price increases in a wide range of markets including Argentina Australia Brazil Canada Egypt France Indonesia Japan Mexico Poland Russia Turkey and the U.K.
We recently announced to the trade in Germany that we will take a 20 Euro cent per pack price increase in June essentially across our entire cigarette portfolio.
Let me now turn to an update on key regions and markets.
In the EU Region we witnessed a 5.6% decline in cigarette industry volume in line with the decrease that occurred during the second half of last year.
This confirms a moderation in the unfavorable trend despite persistently high unemployment levels.
We attribute this moderation to an apparent overall stabilization in illicit trade during 2013 a significant slow-down in the growth of e-vapor products in many markets and reduced down-trading to fine cut products.
However we should remember that the comparisons with 2013 are easier in the first half of this year.
Consequently we still forecast that cigarette industry volume may decline within a range of 6% to 7% for the full year 2014 though we expect it to be closer to 6% than 7%.
We continue to outperform the industry in the EU Region.
Our regional market share increased by 0.9 points in the first quarter to 38.9%.
We achieved share growth in five out of the six largest markets in the region and expect our momentum to continue throughout the year.
Our strong share performance is driven by the strength of our key international brands.
Marlboro gained 0.4 points to reach a 19.1% regional share despite continued weak consumer purchasing power.
L&amp;M grew by 0.3 share points to 6.9% and Chesterfield performed particularly well gaining 0.6 points in the quarter to reach a regional share of 4.9%.
In the first quarter cigarette industry volume in Italy remained very resilient with a decline of just 0.5%.
This is attributable to a significant decline in the sales of e-vapor products a stabilization of illicit trade and lower fine cut volumes.
The key issue in Italy is the ineffective excise tax structure.
The country has the lowest specific-to-total excise tax ratio in the EU at 7.5%.
This has encouraged competitors to introduce or re-position brands to the super-low €4 per pack price segment and has resulted in an increase in the price gap to premium brands to €1 per pack which is a much wider gap than in markets such as France and Germany.
Consequently the super-low segment grew from 0.5% in the first quarter of last year to 11.9% this year driven predominantly by down-trading from the low and mid-price segments as well as in-switching from e-vapor products.
We successfully entered the super-low segment this year by repositioning Chesterfield which has already grown by 1.5 points to reach a level of 5.1% in the first quarter while Marlboro’s share remained resilient at 25.6%.
In 2013 the State incurred a decrease in excise tax revenues for the first time in over a decade and the decline accelerated in the first quarter.
We therefore hope that the government will soon address the issue of excise tax reform.
Let me now move to the Asia Region.
As foreseen the Japanese government increased the consumption tax from 5% to 8% on April 1.
The resulting pass-on at retail was about JPY14 per pack.
We received approval to increase our average retail prices only in line with the tax increase.
As previously mentioned we expect a slight acceleration in the rate of decline in cigarette industry volume from last year’s level of 2% to between 3% and 3.5% due to the impact of the consumption tax-driven price increases on the overall economy.
During the first quarter of this year however cigarette industry volume increased by 9.6% in Japan driven by trade and consumer purchases ahead of the April tax-driven price increases.
Our volume during this period was 9.1% lower principally due to the adverse timing of PMI shipments and a lower market share.
Our reported market share declined by two points to 25.5% during the first quarter.
However this partly reflected the greater degree of trade inventory build-up by competition which distorted market shares.
Our estimated share of 25.9% on an adjusted basis was in line with our 2013 fourth quarter share.
During the quarter we rolled-out the “Be Marlboro” marketing campaign that has been an integral part of the brand’s success in European and other markets.
The initial feedback has been very positive.
We believe that this campaign along with Marlboro’s resilience and our future new product initiatives should enable us to stabilize our share and eventually generate sequential gains.
Let me now move to the Philippines where tax-paid cigarette industry volume increased by 25.9% during the first quarter.
This was mainly due to a lower build-up of inventories by the trade at the end of 2013 compared to the same period in 2012 due to a more moderate excise tax increase in January 2014.
There are strong indications that Mighty Corporation continues to declare about half of its production volume for tax purposes.
The company is coming under increasing scrutiny from the Bureau of Internal Revenue.
We hope that the introduction of tax stamps in June will further reinforce these efforts.
While the price of the Mighty brand has gone up at retail from PHP1 to PHP1.50 per stick Marvels still retails at PHP1.25 per stick and currently wholesales at a price that does not cover the full taxes due.
We have responded with Jackpot at the same stick price as Marvels and Champion matching Mighty while maintaining the price of Fortune slightly below PHP2 per stick.
We were able to reach a share of the super-low price segment of over 50% in the first quarter.
Our overall market share of 83.7% was higher than both our 2013 full-year and fourth quarter shares but lower than our share in the first quarter of 2013.
Importantly the total share of the super-low price segment has been declining recently.
Going forward the price increases that have occurred at the bottom of the market and our marketing efforts behind Marlboro and Fortune should enable us to further improve our market share and product mix trends.
In Indonesia during the first quarter of the year cigarette industry volume declined by 1% and there was an acceleration of certain segment trends.
The industry volume decline was driven by a sharp contraction of the low-price segment which was down by 12.7%.
This was attributable to the impact of Decree 131 the legislation that eliminated the preferential excise tax for so-called “sister companies” of large manufacturers which resulted in significantly higher prices for a wide range of brands at the low end of the market.
In addition the reduction in fuel subsidies last year and food inflation significantly impacted low-income adult smokers.
In the quarter this particularly benefited the mid-price segment where we have a strong position with U Mild which gained 1.1 points to reach a share of 5.2%.
Although inflation has increased and the overall economic situation has somewhat softened GDP growth remains over 5%.
This together with the positive demographic trends and the overall stable political environment leads us to forecast total market growth of up to 1% in Indonesia for the full-year.
During the first quarter our market share in Indonesia declined by 1.6 share points to 34.6% reflecting unfavorable price points and the impact of segment trends.
There was an acceleration in the decline in the hand-rolled or “SKT” segment which incurred a volume erosion of 16.1% in the quarter.
The decline was particularly evident at the premium price end of the segment and this unfavorably impacted the volume and overall share of our Dji Sam Soe brand.
While we have lost segment share in SKT due to an unfavorable price point for Dji Sam Soe and a widening in the brand’s price gap with competitive brands PMI is performing well in the other taste segments.
We will be investing more heavily this year to further boost the equity of brands such as machine-made Sampoerna A Dji Sam Soe Magnum.
We therefore expect an improved market share performance during the second half of the year.
I will now turn to Russia where profit growth remains strong despite the impact of large tax-driven price increases.
Cigarette industry volume declined by an estimated 6.7% in the first quarter to 66.9 billion units though announced price increases of RUB6 to RUB9 per pack only started to impact adult smokers as of February 2014.
For the full-year we are forecasting an industry volume decline of between 9% and 11% mainly reflecting the impact of higher prices and a foreseen increase in illicit trade this despite the growing efforts of the authorities to stamp out counterfeit production and stop the import of contraband and illicit whites.
Our brand performance in the first quarter was strong.
Our market share of 26.7% through the end of February was up by 0.5 points versus a year earlier and up by 0.4 points compared to the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our segment share was higher in the premium and low-price segments notably behind the success of Parliament and Bond Street.
Our profits in the quarter grew at a double-digit rate excluding currency and this is before the contribution of our 20% shareholding in Megapolis an investment that is bringing about gradual improvements in our market penetration as well as providing an attractive financial return.
We remain optimistic about the prospects for our business this year and beyond in Russia.
Looking at our top 30 OCI markets worldwide our share in the first quarter of 2014 declined by 0.2 points to 36.5% driven notably by a lower share in Indonesia and Japan but largely offset by our strong performance in the EU Region.
Marlboro has been a key driver of our good share performance.
During the first quarter Marlboro progressed to reach an international share of 9.2%.
It gained share in three out of our four regions with a particularly strong performance in the EU region.
Its share decline in the Latin America and Canada region reflects consumer down-trading and distorted shipment patterns in Mexico while the brand performed well in other markets in the region.
We continue to be focused on costs and productivity to further drive the expansion of our profits.
We have an annual cost savings and productivity target of $300 million this year.
We have implemented a number of initiatives across our supply chain to achieve this objective.
We are also continuing to optimize our global footprint and announced the closure at the end of this year of our manufacturing facility in Melbourne Australia.
Production will be consolidated in our factory in South Korea.
We have entered into consultations with employee representatives in the Netherlands on a proposal to discontinue cigarette production at our Bergen op Zoom facility.
The proposal is subject to consultation with the Dutch Works Council and approval by the Philip Morris Holland Supervisory Board.
Consultation with the European Works Council is also required.
Subject to the final outcome of the consultations and fulfillment of certain other conditions we would anticipate to implement the contemplated decision by October 2014.
We remain committed to generously rewarding our shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
Our target dividend pay-out ratio remains an attractive 65% and our dividend yield last Friday was 4.5%.
During the first quarter we spent $1.25 billion to repurchase 15.4 million shares at an average price of $81.12 and are targeting to spend $4 billion during the full-year.
In conclusion our guidance reflects a full-year growth rate of approximately 6% to 8% in an adjusted diluted earnings per share excluding currency and the restructuring charge.
Our overall business is in good shape though the unfavorable volume mix remains a key challenge due to cigarette industry volume trends.
Our performance in the EU region is improving with our leading brands all gaining market share.
Furthermore trends in the first quarter confirm the slight moderation in cigarette industry volume decline.
We're starting to see signs of stabilization in our underlying share performance in Japan and the Philippines.
The accelerated decline of the hand-rolled segment and unfavorable price point in Indonesia have impacted our overall market share but we're performing well in the machine-made segment.
We are growing share and profit in Russia and our business across the EEMA region is performing well.
Our pricing remains the key driver of our performance.
This is being complemented by cost savings and productivity programs.
Finally we're ramping up our organization ahead of our exciting city tests later this year and our first national commercial launch in 2015 of reduced-risk products.
This is the term we use to refer to products that have the potential to reduce individual risk and population harm.
We will complete our eight clinical trials this year and are continuing our perception and behavioral studies.
We're preparing the packaging and the labeling of the products and as previously stated the increased investments this year will be around $100 million.
Finally we're moving forward with the constructions of a 30 billion unit HeatStick tobacco stick factory in Bologna Italy which will be completed by 2016.
Thank you.
And I will be now happy to answer your questions.
Inc.</strong> Thanks good morning.
Good morning Judy.
Inc.</strong> Jacek just Japan.
I'm trying to reconcile the 9% decline in your shipments in the second quarter and the inventory movement that we saw the market share losses.
Can you just bridge sort of that 9% decline for Japan in the quarter? And then as you think about then the upcoming quarter do we then see some of that benefit? So you actually would see a positive shipment in Japan as you flow through the inventory movement the other way? Well we have two things for Japan.
One is as we said our in-market sales actually for the quarter was about 300 million units higher than the first quarter of last year.
This was still a little bit lower participation in the trade purchases ahead of the price increases than our principal competitors and our share panel will be the lower on the reported basis and on a restated or adjusted basis we think it was flat versus Q4 last year.
Our shipment and this is how we recognize the revenue on the market essentially the purchases by our distributors to Japan so this is one step lower than the in-market sales and the shipments to the distributor were lower by about 1.3 billion units and this is where the distortions which we have for Japan.
When it comes to the next quarters I mean although we see the market to go down for the full year in the range of 3% to 3.5% the question is how much trade we'll need to be stock or unwind the higher purchases which have happened at the end of the last quarter.
So I don't think we should have that magnitude of the inventory adjustment and also obviously there is a function of how our shares is going to develop going forward.
I mean so far we see the first two quarters sequentially when our share comes flat.
I mean if that obviously would remain for the remaining part of the year we would have a much less of the distortions on the shipment.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just on that note so the underlying market share performance Jacek you sound like you're seeing a little bit of stabilization there and maybe cautiously optimistic that things will improve as the year progresses.
Can you just give us some color just in terms of what's driving that confidence at this point? We're encouraged -- as I said on an adjusted basis the share came flat versus Q4.
So this is the first sequential quarters which we have over the last good few quarters when we have not lost share.
And Marlboro came relatively strong.
L&amp;M and Lark continues to be under pressure.
There is a program in place to address the Lark performance.
And I think also the Be Marlboro campaign which we started to roll out in Japan in Q1 of this year will get the very positive response at the consumer level.
So we start the number of parameters or brand attributes which the campaign has helped us to address in the other regions mainly the European region.
We start seeing the same sort of an impact in Japan.
Preparedly when the campaign is rolled out but this is even more encouraging.
So let's stay cautiously optimistic for the year but this is still the long way for us to fully stabilize or to return to growth in the Japanese market.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then secondly just on Indonesia just a market share movement there.
You called out unfavorable price points.
Can you just talk about what drove that unfavorable price point? And then how you're addressing that issue? And how would you characterize your performance in Indonesia in the context of some of the other markets like Japan or the Philippines where obviously you have had some market share challenges? Is this a little bit more one-off situation or what do you think about the market share performance in Indonesia and how you think about that going forward? I think there are two factors which first of all impacted the total industry impacting the industry performance.
One is some sort of a pressure coming still from the last year the median removal partially of the fuel subsidies some pressure on inflation so it has an impact on the total market especially on the lower price points.
I mean this is what the consumers presumably are most impacted by that pressure from their disposable income.
Second thing is the market had an underlying trend of the consumer switching from hand-rolled cigarettes to machine-made cigarettes.
Obviously we present in those segments but our main brand Dji Sam Soe is the hand-made kretek cigarette.
That brand sit at premium price point of the segment actually it is one of the most expensive brands in the market.
The brands we started to sell after the price increases last year as of about mid of last year the brand price per pack was about IDR12 000 for the pack of 12.
So we crossed at the retail level the stick price of IDR1 000.
Other main competitors behind us in terms of the price gap.
So I think it's going to take some time until they will cross the market will cross that price point with another brand.
I would expect some moderations in the share pressure in Indonesia in the second half of the year and we just have to be patient.
We also are addressing the consumer taste preferences going for the machine -- from the hand-made cigarettes to machine-made by line extending Dji Sam Soe.
So we have two very well -- one very well performing variant and we are coming with the second variant Dji Sam Soe Magnum which is a filter kretek machine-made -- machine-made kretek cigarette.
So I think the share -- I mean overall I think we can get to the decent share performance but we have to wait a little bit.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Hi Jacek.
Hi David.
First a broader question Jacek.
So this quarter local currency OCI was down 3 EPS was up 5.
How do you envision the balance of the year unfolding? Clearly the results need to be better than this to hit the full year target.
The OCI on an ex-currency basis for the full year should be -- should obviously have a positive growth Right.
Otherwise it will be difficult to get to the 6% to 8% on the EPS level ex-currency obviously.
Okay.
And… You need to note into this thing that this distortion which we had on a shipment basis this year I'm sorry in the first quarter I mean at April 3rd the pressure on the overall OCI growth.
But as I said in my remarks if I would exclude the distortions which we have had in the first quarter my revenues and OCI would be flattish -- at least flattish for the quarter on ex-currency basis.
Okay.
And then second Jacek what are you seeing in the market in Russia now that the price increases are starting to come through at retail? It's very still early because the prices have started to appear at the retail level around second half of February.
I think as in the past we were at the beginning of the price changes in Philip Morris the competition I can see that the following.
There is one competitor which is slow but they usually were slow.
So I think we need still a few weeks to see the full impact on the market.
The market was less than 7% 6.7% diluted down for the quarter.
We still hold the forecast for the full year for the full market to be in a decline rate of 9% to 11%.
One thing which we have to watch that the current situation with the ruble having some pressure GDP growth forecast for Russia is coming a little bit lower than the previous forecast.
I mean the whole situation around that region is a little bit -- not extremely helpful so we just have to see how this going to unfold during the year.
But as our forecast for the market is at the 9% to 11% decline we don't see actually that we should revise anything else in our estimate for the year -- for this year at this stage.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Bonnie.
I just have -- my first question a quick follow-on on Japan.
Given the expected price increases in the market how much do you think this will increase the total profit pool? And then do you envision capturing I guess more than your fair share over the next few years? Well I can talk about this year as you know we have ended up and what I see generally the industry has ended up with price increase which essentially just passed on the VAT increase so I don't see much of the profit pool enhancement in the market.
If you deduct the estimated market decline for the year actually coming slightly negative rather than a positive that's for this year; and I think talking about the outer year would be a clear speculation because we also need to see what is the decision of the government with regards to the planned second step of the sales price increase from 8% to 10%.
Okay.
That's fair.
And then my second question is on Marlboro.
The volume performance was relatively weak during the quarter.
So I guess in light of this could you talk a little bit about Marlboro 2.0 the next generation brand and how this might reaccelerate growth for total Marlboro? And then possibly which markets Marlboro has the most opportunity or upside this year? Well we post -- essentially post the test market in a few locations for the Marlboro 2.0 architecture.
All tests all three locations reported very encouraging results.
I mean the perception of the Marlboro Red really start changing.
This is what the brand needed.
We think this is the right thing to do to reinvigorate Marlboro Red and somehow replicated I think a tremendous success which we have achieved with the Marlboro Gold a few years ago when we revamped Marlboro gold.
So I think it's overall the move in the right directions.
We will be rolling results sequentially in the number of markets.
To actually give you a one single out one or group of markets where Marlboro have the best of the potential if I am looking at the last couple of years Marlboro performance frankly speaking Marlboro has the potential in every geography.
And I think the Marlboro performance in the Europe against all of this negative macroeconomic trend is just confirming that the brand can serve the very stormy waters irregardless of the situation.
The brand is and I think is going to be then in a better shape than it used to be in the past.
So I will not volunteer to single one market when a Marlboro would benefit.
Obviously we can talk about the Russia but Marlboro Russia is more than just the Marlboro architecture it's the product propositions and a couple of other factors.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then my final question is on your dividend.
Given your negative EPS growth this year due primarily of course to the currency headwind could you share with us how you're thinking about your dividend? And then how comfortable or willing you are to let your payout ratio be above your target 65%? Well we're currently above the current ratio -- sorry the current payout ratio.
Listen the divined as you know is the decision of our Board so I think we need to be patient and wait until the September Board and see what decision the Board will make.
What I can say at this stage is that I think we have in every single year since we become independent; we've been rewarding shareholders irregardless of some headwinds which we had on our reported result.
And I can't say anything more at this stage but I think we had a track record of generously rewarding shareholders.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Hi.
Good morning Jacek.
Morning Chris.
Hi.
I just had two questions for you.
I wanted to ask a little bit more detail on the EU.
I just noticed -- and I don't recall seeing this of late -- but that the Marlboro brand was down in the quarter but you had growth in L&amp;M Chesterfield the Philip Morris brand more mid-tier type brands.
Was there any change in sort of the mix if you will the product mix in that market anything that worried you about any kind of trading down in some markets? No.
I think that L&amp;M continues to perform well in all markets.
Actually L&amp;M total share and Marlboro share was pretty strong -- came strong in the many markets.
You have -- and I think Marlboro actually for the quarter went up by the four times of a point if I'm not mistaken okay in the segment in the EU segment.
Chesterfield had a bit of acceleration.
I think Italy has contributed to that.
We had some situation in Italy when the former euro price segment has doubled up was the end of the last year.
I mean I have said it in my remarks the tax system in Italy is pretty inefficient.
Actually I would characterize it as one of the most inefficient systems within the European Union region.
We have entered the segment by repositioning Chesterfield.
The brand picked up very nicely so I think it also contributed to the overall performance of Chesterfield.
And I think in other larger market volume-wise when the Chesterfield picked up very nicely I think recently was Poland but I don't think it's much of the mix.
All brands across the price -- irregardless of the price segment positioning are delivering a very strong share growth.
Okay.
Thank you.
And I just had a follow-up question for you on the Philippines as well.
I guess just to be clear; there was another tax increase at the start of the year.
So it seemed like across at least some of your volume you are absorbing that today? Have you taken pricing may be on Marlboro but not on Fortune or Jackpot or one of the lower-priced brands? No.
We have fact that we need to restore the competitiveness and put our grip on all key price points in the market and this entailed that we have to absorb the tax.
And then if Marlboro continues selling at the equivalent of the PHP1 per stick.
Fortune we're now trading I think at the retail at the slightly below the PHP2.
And we have much the key brands of Mighty our key competitor there with the Marlboro and it's always the Jackpot and Champion.
And I think this is very much behind our market share performance but the part of our strategy and we have made it very clear I believe as of November or so last year that we need to regain our competitiveness in the market.
And one of the key elements of restoring the sort of a level playing field I think also in this market.
I had a related question then which is you're chasing some of this really low-end volume very unprofitable or maybe not at all profitable volume.
Is there a view that you could then trade that consumer up in the future or that you'll benefit if you hold onto that share as prices go higher? Is that the viewpoint or is it better to manage for profitability given your already high share? That's exactly the plan.
Okay.
Got you.
Thanks so much for your time.
Hi.
Good morning Jacek.
Good morning.
A couple of questions.
First of all on the underlying volume growth down 2% which inventory distortions are you including? Because it seemed to me the Philippines is probably the largest swing is that not included in that sort of underlying 2% down? No.
I think the major would come from Japan.
And you will have some movement across the number of the markets.
I think there was Russia slightly contributing in the things.
Yeah this would be the main one.
So it doesn't include the impact of the Philippines which was a sort of positive sort of move? No.
No.
Okay.
And the big question on pricing you mentioned obviously the inventory movements added a lot to pricing in the first quarter of 2013 and that's not going to recur.
So could we assume therefore that pricing for 2014 in general the overall mix the variance is likely to prove to be less than 2013? Well I think we had very a high pricing variance last year to some extent it’s driven also by the one-off in Bolivia and the Philippines right? So that thing will not repeat if you like this year.
But if I compare apples-to-apples frankly speaking the pricing variance this year we don’t see why this shouldn’t be in line with our historical average sort of annual pricing variance.
Right.
Okay.
And usually you make some comment about how much of the pricing you've already got through in terms of the market.
Is that something you are prepared to comment on at the moment? Well we have now made some advancement versus what we have announced in February.
So we’re approaching much higher number and frankly speaking there wasn’t – we have more advancement in terms of announced and realized pricing than we had in February.
And very quickly lastly; is there any signs that the Italian government is actually moving on the tax system? Well I think the decline in the governmental tax revenues in the last year and a continuing for Q1 is something that I believe makes the government looking more closely I mean what have led to the situation.
As I said the system is inefficient.
It’s very heavily – most heavily in the European Union scaled towards ad valorem component and many other markets also during the crisis.
If you look at Spain to some extent not fully but France – I mean that is typical of high ad valorem markets they have recognized the weakness of the structure and the system and they have moved ahead.
I believe Italian government will -- is closely looking and they will reach the same conclusion that the more specific component is actually better system also from the revenue the governmental revenues perspective.
But is there actually a proposal out there for any movement or is that yet to come? I think there are some discussions.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Back to Indonesia I just wanted to try to see if I could clarify a little bit or understand it better.
My understanding is that Djarum Super and Gudang Garam International have also hit those same price points.
I think it was late in the quarter so obviously it wouldn't have had much impact in these numbers but just in terms of the outlook for the rest of the year is the issue that there is a segment shift away from their brands and Dji Sam Soe because of the higher price point or is it that those two are gaining from you and that you should be able to get some of that back or how does that work? Well I think their price point has –is one of the key elements to play there.
As I said I mean Dji Sam Soe now I mean most of the packs sold in the market at 13 000 rupiah per pack of 12.
So I mean clearly we are well above the 1 rupiah price point and retailers try to even round up that price to 1 500 if not more.
While the Djarum and the GG I think if I not mistaking the key brand competing with Dji Sam Soe now still have sums volumes below 12 000 and I would think about the half of the volumes – maybe slightly more than half of the volumes at the 12 000 per pack.
So they are just now hitting the sum around price point.
I think the issue is the market when you have a pretty frequent sort of a pricing increase.
So I think it’s just a matter of a time when the pressure on the Dji Sam Soe should ease going forward.
This is from a price point perspective.
So just to make sure that I understand that you are saying some of the competitive pricing is scattered like within the country so that some markets probably in bigger cities have the higher price points but for the competitive brands but it's not everywhere? Well I think it is due to the size and the structure of the trade of the country you don't have the price increases which will hit the retail and consumers in one given point in a time.
You have this – you announced the prices you introduced the prices to the trade and you might at have in a given point in any given point a coexistence of the prices – two or three different price points per pack and… Got you okay.
And as part of the rolling price increases I mean you rather work for the average price in the market at the retail level in order to upset the competitors.
Now I thing to add maybe that you now historically the Djarum brand and the GG brand they were also trading or retailing below Dji Sam Soe right.
So there is maybe some element of the price cut but I believe it is more the element of the one price point of the 12 per pack – 12 000 rupiah per pack 1 000 per stick.
Well and so in terms – I guess it's almost two months now since they have announced those prices and to your point it may have flown through very widely.
But have you seen any improvement in your trends on Dji Sam Soe into April so far? Well we have been announcing the prices as well so this is like sort of the moving curve situation if you like.
Right? Right.
Okay.
The market in a given one moment – in a given moment will cross the ones price point.
We had a same situation with Dji Sam Soe when the Dji Sam Soe was crossing the 500 rupiah per stick.
So it’s not that we have not upselled with Dji Sam Soe that the brand was nicely growing.
We are the first ones to cross the round price point at that time as I said 500 rupiah per stick.
I mean we get there little bit of the share pressure and then we will recover.
So I mean let’s see how this is going to play this time.
And can you give any sense of what you expect for the second half or any part of the rest of the year just in terms of what your share position might look like given that it is obviously it came down but it was also down versus 4Q.
Do you expect it to stabilize or do you think it might get worse before it picks up again? Well I think that we should expect some less of the share pressure moderation or flattening of the share actually towards the second half or in the second half of this year.
Here Philip Morris in Indonesia had a little bit of pressure on the share if you look at the Q3 Q4 last year.
Okay.
So we planned it grow at a much faster rate until about the mid of the last year than – okay Dji Sam Soe again crossed this 12 000 price point we started observing the pressure.
I think we need to just let this period somehow lock.
Okay thanks.
That's helpful.
Then in Japan you mentioned you have some programs in place or starting to become in place on Lark.
Can you give a little color on what those are? I think we will have to stay a little bit of patient until everything is revealed in the market.
So when we’re talking about the future programs I can't actually tell you much more in detail than what in the market that they announced.
But obviously there is the things which drives so the element which drives the market i.e.
innovation modernization of the product perception et cetera I mean it’s something which is in the books.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just lastly I know you mentioned the next-generation products.
Is there any other details you can give us on those? Not at this stage.
I think that the last week of June the Investors Day which we will have here for the investors community is the great opportunity for us to disclose more details how and when and we’re going to go into the first market.
But we are very excited about it.
All right.
That sounds great.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
A couple of questions if I may.
Firstly I was just wondering if you could give some more details on what could be perceived as weaker pricing in EU.
I mean what is driving this? Is it the mix in Italy and is this likely to continue into the rest of the year? Secondly could you please give some more color on the business building initiatives in Brazil? And what these entail exactly and also how your share development is looking in Brazil? Thanks.
Okay.
I think the kind of pricing in Euro – I mean it’s actually Italy right because Italy is lacking some prices as I have said this earlier.
Yes.
That Italy has this significantly inefficient tax system.
I mean I was somehow compounded by the fact that it increased the VAT.
They have not -- there was no offset on follow on rate.
So that puts the pressure on the pricing in the region.
As I said I mean let's remain hopeful that the government sees what is the driver of the entire -- their revenue is also collection performance and how this going to be addressed.
Meanwhile we concentrated on holding a strong market share.
Our share essentially came flat.
Marlboro came flat.
This is despite the fact that we see some down trading between the medium and the low segment for this full euro price segment.
Chesterfield now is the significant player or key player actually in the full euro price segment so I think we have some grip in the market.
But that's essentially what is behind the pricing in euro which I think I said that we have recently announced the price increase in Germany over €0.20 per pack so I think this should also change the bigger picture going forward.
And when it comes to Brazil I don't know if you asked the question I think the market in Brazil for the quarter I remember was about 2.6% down I think the market was about $17.3 billion.
And our market share nicely grew to about 15.7% or I think improved by the 1.4 points -- it was 1.4 points for the quarter I think was our share.
Okay.
And just on the business building initiatives I'm just wondering what that is exactly? Is that significant or… As we know we've very much strong focus at in the south of Brazil.
And we had a plan of enlarging our presence there.
And we are going from the south slowly to the north of Brazil.
And this is also attracting volumes up.
So step-by-step I think we're making a very good progress in Brazil as we did however for the last couple of years.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Hello Jacek.
I had a question on -- you had mentioned in the commentary for France the growth of E-Vapor products and their impacts on combustible volumes.
And I have wondered if you could provide any color on any overall trends you're seeing as far as the impact on volumes and the growth of E-Vapor products? Yes.
I mean the color -- in terms of the color as always at the beginning of last year we observed 2013 we observed that sort of phenomena in Italy and not even a quarter later -- sorry four quarters later the product is actually or the attractiveness of this product is fading out and there is no volume no impact on the market.
Based on my knowledge of that category I don't see why France shouldn't play the same way.
I mean we know what are the negatives if you like of e-cigarettes cigarettes in terms of a satisfaction meeting the consumers' expectations etcetera.
So we now see this in France.
As I said I saw that last year in Italy.
I saw it sometime ago in Germany.
I saw it sometime ago in Greece.
I can start mentioning the market.
And essentially the trend is very much being repeated across the country.
So it goes for the rapid sort of a growth.
It's a lot of -- it confirms that there was an interest.
And I think for a good reason the consumer is looking to this alternative but the product as it is today in the market is not delivering on the consumer expectations.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay.
Well thank you very much for joining us.
That concludes our call today.
If you do have any follow-up questions the Investor Relations team is available.
We are currently in Switzerland and we'll be happy to take your follow-up questions.
Thank you again and have a nice day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day and welcome to the Philip Morris International Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Philip Morris International Management and the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Media representatives on the call will also be invited to ask questions at the conclusion of questions from the investment community.
I’ll now turn the call over to Mr.
Nick Rolli Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead Sir.
Welcome and thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we issued a press release containing detailed information on our 2014 second quarter results.
You may access the release on our Web site at www.pmi.com.
During our call today we'll be talking about results for the second quarter 2014 and comparing them to the same period in 2013 unless otherwise stated.
A glossary of terms data tables showing adjustments to net revenues and OCI for currency asset impairment exit and other costs free cash flow calculations and adjustments to earnings per share or EPS as well as reconciliations to U.S.
GAAP measures are at the end of today’s Webcast slides which are posted on our Web site.
Please note that reduced-risk products or RRPs is the term we use for products that have the potential to reduce individual risk and population harm.
Today’s remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results.
I direct your attention to the Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements disclosure in today’s presentation and press release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections or forward-looking statements.
It’s now my pleasure to introduce Jacek Olczak our Chief Financial Officer.
Jacek? Thank you Nick and welcome ladies and gentlemen.
As we expected we achieved strong results in the second quarter driven by a lower cigarette volume decline of 2.7% and a solid pricing variance of $494 million.
As a result net revenues excluding currency increased by 4.5% and adjusted OCI was up by 9.5% on the same basis.
Both the EEMA and Latin America &amp; Canada regions had a very strong quarter with adjusted OCI growing by 28.8% and 27.1% respectively excluding currency.
Furthermore the EU Region achieved a 3.3% increase in adjusted OCI excluding currency despite the adverse pricing impact in Italy.
The results in the Asia Region meanwhile continued to be impacted by challenges in specific markets although we are making progress in dealing with them.
Our adjusted diluted EPS excluding currency grew by 20% to $1.56 per share.
This was driven by our strong business results and a relatively easy comparison with the same quarter last year.
For the first half of the year our adjusted diluted EPS excluding currency increased by 12.4% to $2.91.
However we will face much more challenging comparisons during the second half of the year and in particular during the fourth quarter.
In the second half we will make investments behind the commercialization of reduced-risk products roll out Marlboro Red 2.0 and incur some underlying costs related to the optimization of our manufacturing footprint.
Overall our spending this year is skewed towards the second half.
As a result we’re anticipating a lower EPS growth excluding currency for the second half of this year.
As we announced at our Investor Day in June and reaffirmed today our reported diluted EPS guidance for 2014 at prevailing exchange rates is in a range of $4.87 to $4.97 versus $5.26 in 2013.
Our guidance continues to include approximately $0.61 per share of unfavorable currency at prevailing exchange rates; an after-tax charge of $0.24 per share recorded as asset impairment and exit costs in the second quarter related to the discontinuation of cigarette production in the Netherlands in 2014; and the $0.01 per share charge recorded in the first quarter relating to the decision to end production in Australia.
Our 2014 guidance represents a growth rate excluding currency and these restructuring charges of approximately 6% to 8% compared to our adjusted diluted EPS of $5.40 in 2013.
As stated in June given the down-trading and heavy price discounting in Australia in combination with plain packaging we anticipate that this could result in our currency-neutral adjusted diluted EPS being at the lower end of this range.
Let me now provide you with an update on key markets starting with the challenges we face this year in a number of Asian markets and the progress we’re making in addressing them.
In Japan cigarette industry volume declined by 14.4% in the quarter as the trade de-stocked following the April 1st tax-driven price increases.
Our shipment volume decreased by 16.4% reflecting the overall market decline and our lower market share.
On a June year-to-date basis industry volume declined by 2.8%.
As expected our market share in Japan rebounded during the second quarter reaching 26.4% following our 25.5% share in the first quarter when the trade built up higher inventory levels of competitive products.
Adjusting for trade inventory movements we estimate our share in the quarter was 25.8% indicating that the process of stabilizing our market share is under way and we believe that our share should level out during the second half a period during which we plan a number of new product launches including Marlboro Clear Hybrid a smooth-tasting regular-to-menthol capsule product.
In Indonesia we witnessed a rebound in cigarette industry volume with a second-quarter increase of 4.9% which brought the first half of the year to a 2% growth rate.
We are currently maintaining our forecast for the full-year of market growth of up to 1%.
Our market share increased sequentially from 34.6% in the first quarter to 34.9% in the second quarter though it was below the last year’s level of 36.1%.
While the unfavorable trends in the hand-rolled kretek segment continued to impact our overall share performance the decline moderated and we achieved strong share progression in the machine-made kretek segment.
This was helped by the April launch of Dji Sam Soe Magnum Blue which reached a quarterly share of 0.6%.
We expect this sequential improvement to continue during the second half of this year.
Total estimated tax-paid cigarette industry volume in the Philippines declined by 13.4% during the second quarter while consumption levels remained resilient as measured by adult smoking incidence and daily consumption.
The drop in tax-paid industry volume reflects the fact that Mighty Corporation’s tax-paid volume was down by around 40%.
In contrast we estimate that its total sales volume both tax-paid and non-tax-paid increased by about 20%.
PMI’s share of the tax-paid market increased to 85.9% during the second quarter representing an increase of 3.4 share points driven mainly by Marlboro and Fortune.
The pressure on Mighty Corporation continues and we hope that the introduction of tax stickers now expected in August will reduce its ability to avoid paying excise taxes and VAT.
Let me now move to Australia where the combination of a certain commoditization of the market induced by plain packaging large excise tax increases and heavy price discounting particularly at the bottom of the market has accelerated down-trading to lower price lower margin brands or even illicit products.
The super-low price segment has grown from 6.3% in 2011 to 28.3% in the first half of this year when the effective price gap between a premium brand such as Marlboro and a super-low price brand such as Bond Street widened to about AUD$1 per pack of 25 cigarettes or about 36%.
This compares to a gap of about 26% in 2011.
Our market share averaged 37.7% in the period 2011 through 2013 but came under significant pressure from competitive discounting in the first quarter of 2014 when it dropped to 32.9%.
We responded with increased investments in tactical price discounts for choice and Bond Street in order to regain our market position.
As a result in the second quarter we increased our segment shares in the low and super-low price segments from 31.4% and 11.2% last year to 36.8% and 14.5% respectively.
However the combination of increased price discounts and volume/mix deterioration due to the down-trading is impacting our profitability in Australia this year Let me now turn to the EEMA Region starting with Russia where our strong and diverse brand portfolio is driving market share gains and enabling us to increase prices.
On a May quarter-to-date basis our market share increased by 0.9 share points to 26.8% thanks to premium Parliament mid-price L&amp;M and low-price Bond Street.
We estimate that cigarette industry volume declined by around 10% during the second quarter.
This was driven by price increases averaging some 25% year-on-year an increase in the prevalence of illicit trade and the weakening economy.
As you know we announced in May a further price increase of RUB$4 per pack across most of our portfolio.
This should impact adult smokers later this month and along with the implementation of the restrictions on public smoking that were introduced in June this year is expected to result in a full-year decline of between 9% and 11% in cigarette industry volume.
In Turkey cigarette industry volume increased by an estimated 2.5% in the second quarter and was slightly up June year-to-date.
A stable underlying trend is expected during the second half of the year despite a mid-year upward adjustment in the specific and minimum excise tax of 5.1%.
We increased the prices of our low and super-low price portfolio Bond Street Chesterfield Lark and L&amp;M by TRY$0.50 per pack.
Our May quarter-to-date market share was marginally lower at 44.6%.
However the premium brands’ share of our portfolio increased driven by the 1.2 share points gained by Parliament which reached a record market share of 10.8%.
Let me now turn to the EU Region where June cigarette industry volume was stronger than expected and included a favorable inventory variance.
Cigarette industry volume declined by just 1.2% in the second quarter and by 3.4% in the first half compared to a 9.3% decrease during the same period last year.
The improvement in cigarette industry volume trends has taken place despite persistently high unemployment levels.
We attribute the moderation to a slight decline in illicit trade a slow-down in the growth of e-vapor products in many markets relatively less out-switching to fine cut products and some trade inventory movements.
We should also remember that the comparison with 2013 was easier in the first half of this year and in addition we’ve recently implemented or announced price increases in Germany Portugal and Spain.
Consequently we’re expecting the full-year decline in the EU Region to be approximately 5% which is a more modest rate of decline than the one forecast in June and a marked improvement on the 7.4% decline that occurred during 2013.
We continue to outperform the industry in the EU Region.
Our Regional market share increased by 0.9 share points in the second quarter to 40.4%.
We achieved share growth in five of the six largest markets in the Region and expect our positive momentum to continue throughout the year.
Absent trade inventory movements our market share would also have been up in Germany.
Our strong share performance is based on the strength of our key international brands.
Marlboro remained resilient with a 19.4% regional share despite the continued weak macro-economic environment.
L&amp;M grew by 0.3 share points to 7.2% driven by an outstanding performance in Germany and continued share gains in Poland.
Chesterfield performed particularly well gaining 1.4 share points in the quarter to reach a regional share of 5.8%.
Its market share has grown very rapidly since we repositioned the brand in Italy and it has also benefited from geographic expansion.
On a June year-to-date basis our cigarette volume in the EU Region was essentially stable at 91.6 billion units.
This was the key driver of the improvement in our adjusted OCI excluding currency during the first half of the year.
Our pricing variance on the other hand was lower than in recent years mainly driven by Italy where we remain cautiously optimistic that the government will implement excise tax reform.
In the second quarter we increased our market share in Italy by the 2 share points to reach 55.3% as Chesterfield which was repositioned in February to the super-low price segment achieved a 10% overall market share up by 6.5 share points although with lower unit margins while Marlboro’s share declined 0.8 share points to 25%.
On a global basis pricing remained the key driver of our higher adjusted OCI during the second quarter.
Our pricing variance reached $494 million in the quarter and $900 million in the first half broadly in line with our annual historical average of $1.8 billion.
Our strong second quarter pricing variance was led by Indonesia and Russia but was partially offset by an unfavorable pricing variances in Italy and the Philippines.
We achieved a 2.1 point improvement in PMI’s adjusted operating companies income margin excluding currency in the second quarter driven by pricing and helped by the timing of costs.
Looking at our top 30 OCI markets worldwide our share in the second quarter of 2014 increased by 0.2 points to 37.3%.
Marlboro is one of the key drivers of our favorable market share momentum.
During the second quarter Marlboro progressed to reach an international market share of 9.2% excluding China.
It gained share in three out of our four regions with a particularly strong performance in the EEMA region.
The decline in the Asia region was mainly attributable to Japan.
We remain committed to generously rewarding our shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
Our dividend yield last Friday was 4.4% which puts us at the upper end of the range of our peer groups.
During the second quarter we spent $1 billion to repurchase 11.6 million shares at an average price of $86.13 and continue to target spending of $4 billion during the full-year of 2014.
In conclusion the second quarter was financially a strong one helped by a favorable comparison with last year and hindered by some ongoing challenges in the Asia region.
The results in the EEMA and Latin America &amp; Canada regions were particularly strong driven mainly by pricing while better volume trends in the EU region enabled us to increase regional adjusted OCI excluding currency.
Our business fundamentals are solid although the comparisons are expected to be more challenging during the next two quarters.
We will make investments behind the commercialization of reduced-risk products roll out Marlboro Red 2.0 incur some underlying costs related to the optimization of our manufacturing footprint and overall our spending this year is skewed towards the second half.
This is already reflected in our EPS guidance and we remain confident in our ability to achieve a growth rate in adjusted diluted EPS of 6% to 8% excluding currency for the full-year 2014.
Thank you.
I’ll now be happy to answer your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of David Adelman with Morgan Stanley.
Hi Jacek.
Good morning David.
A couple of things.
First of all I realize you haven’t changed your outlook for the year but the second quarter come in higher than the internal plan or was this what you more or less had envisioned? No this came as per our plan.
We knew and we have highlighted at the beginning of the year that we expect particularly strong quarter partly driven by the comps as you remember the growth rate in the second quarter of last year was 0.7% on EPS level ex-currency.
So it was not really challenging comp which we’re facing but also we knew that we will expect some continuous step-by-step improvements in the key markets where which we try to address this year.
So you had the EU Japan Philippines etcetera.
So this all was baked in so it came as expected.
Okay.
Secondly two of your three major international competitors intend to make fairly sizeable investments in the U.S cigarette market to conventional cigarette market and I’m just curious you obviously exited that market but did their actions cause you to rethink at all the attraction and/or the risk of the U.S? Well not really.
I think we will make it very clear that the reasons are well-known why we focus on an international market.
We’re not looking in a conventional business at the U.S.
I think our plans are very clear that yes we do see U.S on the -- from the perspective of the reduced-risk products but as the separate part of this strategy.
So when it comes to the conventional cigarette cigarette markets I don’t really see any impact in terms of our thinking of that transaction which was I believe announced yesterday.
Okay.
Thank you very much Jacek.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Inc.</strong> Thank you.
Hi Jacek.
Hi.
Good morning Judy.
Inc.</strong> So a couple of questions.
First in the EU region obviously you had called out the pricing variance being negatively impacted by the price reposition in Italy.
So just wondering number one can you just quantify the Italy impact and whether the underlying -- the other market the pricing variance has also slowed and then you’ve taken some pricing in some of the European markets so would you expect pricing variance in the back half or EU to be much stronger? On Italy I think the Chesterfield repositioning obviously generated some negative pricing variance on the Italian market but this is largely offset by the volume gains.
So I think Italy is more of a question of the VAT absorption which we still have since the end of the last year and this is causing the negative pricing variance.
And this is very much linked to the way to discuss or debate in Italy the tax restructuring.
Italy to quantify -- the total pricing variance for Italy would be in a range on the year-to-date basis you’re talking in the range of about $100 million.
But as I said it’s more the higher component is the VAT absorption just the repositioning of the Chesterfield because you pick it up at the revenue level for the volume -- positive volume variance.
Inc.</strong> Right.
Okay.
And then other markets where you’re taking -- have taken more pricing so broadly speaking if you take total EU in the back half pricing variance would accelerate more meaningfully? Well just to conclude in Italy if you would add to the pricing variance on the EU the negative coming from Italy the EU would have already a pretty decent pricing variance for the first half of the year okay because Italy really depressed the pricing variance for the entire region.
And I think overall for the PMI the pricing variance is about equally spread between half of the years -- of the year.
Inc.</strong> Got it okay.
And then the second question is relating to the situation in Australia and wanted to just get a little bit better understanding of what actions you’ve actually taken already in that market and whether there more actions to come in the back half and just if you’re detecting any sort of competitive responses now that you’ve responded to the competitive behavior in that market.
Well what we did in Australia is as of the end of the first quarter essentially we will have increased some promotional spending -- price promotional spending behind mainly two brands Choice and Bond Street which are the brands which are competing in a low-price segment.
In other parts of the low price segment and they’re being challenged by the discount segment or the lower part of the segment.
So that investment there and our actions around this when we try to regain the competitiveness when it comes to the price point versus the key competitive brands.
This is a free pricing in Australia so the situation is pretty dynamic and you appreciate that I cannot comment on any future price moves but this is a price discounting situation when the price is being set individually by the key account by trade channel by territory etcetera.
So I mean that situations may change and may turn -- may change pretty rapidly.
So we will have to see.
I mean I think our share reacted as expected.
We would have gain the share especially behind this brands in the second quarter.
As you remember we lost some share significantly some share in the first quarter.
So so far that part of the strategy works.
Now well let’s see how the situation will prevail.
I think what is maybe important to say that you’ve some brands already in the market discounted in the low price segment there to the level that they essentially yield about zero margin okay.
So I think once it reach that point I think a fair question to ask is isn’t that the moment when the logic should start prevailing while you start to balancing your profit versus volume objective.
Inc.</strong> Right okay.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Hi.
Good morning Jacek.
Good morning Chris.
I just had two questions for you if I could.
The first would be if you look at the EU the first half benefiting from some inventory movements.
How much of that reverses in the second half of the year? I guess with the volumes being much stronger so far do you have to see -- sort of a major inventory reductions occurring in the second half of the year? Small component I think it was mainly in Germany but you’re not talking about the very important component.
So yes there will be obviously some reversal in Q3.
But I don’t think it would change our outlook when it comes for the full-year.
Hence as you noticed we have revised shortly after Investors Day while now having a full June data we’ve revised our total industry outlook for the year to the 5%.
So again obviously that some inventory movements between the quarters.
Okay.
And then just another question for you if I could on Japan which is that obviously the share of shipments was up in the quarter but it also was distorted by inventory movements.
I’m just curious like what’s -- is there a better metric or better measure for the ongoing share if you will in Japan this quarter 26.4% is that sustainable or …? The way we’re tracking the performance we look at retail off take at some key to change there so -- but the share performance there is somehow reflecting the trend with sequential trends which we see on our adjusted churn.
So we start -- we see the stabilization of the share over the last three quarters maybe 0.1 down sequentially Q2 versus Q1 but it is all pointing to what we expected in the second half of the year we should essentially have Japan share pressure behind this.
Okay.
Thanks for your time.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog with Wells Fargo.
Good morning Jacek.
Good morning Bonnie.
My first question is on the Philippines.
So despite progress being made with the tax underpayment issue by your main competitor the market was still down quite a bit in the second quarter.
Now how do you see this playing out for the rest of the year and when should we expect the market to stabilize? Then also do you think the tax stamps coming in? I think it sounds like in August now -- will fix or address the bulk of these problems? The market -- we have to be cautious when we talk about the total market size in Philippines because we essentially have a better visibility on a tax paid market rather on a total market.
Therefore I think also in our slides we’re using the data on the consumption the smoking incidence in a daily consumption which gives a better feel what is happening for the total market covering both tax paid non-tax paid.
I think there was the distortion coming a little bit from what has happened in Q2 last year with the Mighty supplying the market and the Mighty level of supplying the market in the second quarter of this year.
Hence you had a 14% decline.
When it comes to second question I think the tax stickers implementation is an important step in the whole portfolio of the steps which we wish the government should have already taken to address that issue.
I don’t think tax stamps is the only element which is going to address that issue.
I mean as you know when we’re dealing with an under declaration I mean you need to obviously demonstrate the same diligence and the vigilance when it comes to all the things that tax stickers etcetera.
But we’re very pleased that this is coming to its fruition to its realization and I think it’s going to help in overall addressing the situation.
Okay that's helpful.
Then I do have a second question on Russia.
Could you give us a little more color on how Marlboro is performing in that country? And then in light of the price increases you took could you talk about where price gaps are now? And are you seeing any changes in the consumer behaviors given the increases and then possibly from some of the smoking bans? Well when it comes to the price gaps because Russia essentially is having price increases the same absolute amount per pack across the price segment.
So it’s not much change over price gaps -- price gaps in absolute terms but obviously the price gaps in the relative terms tend to close.
When it comes to consumer reaction the price increase which we announced in May as I said in my remarks we’ll kick the market around this time early August.
So we will have to wait a month or so to have the reading how consumers -- what is the reaction of consumers.
I think we shouldn’t our outlook for the market total market size for this year.
I think there is a 9% to 11% range of decline for this year is valid which factored in the impact of the two price increases this year and also in this forecast it’s factored in the impact from smoking restriction in public places.
Okay.
Thank you Jacek.
Thank you Bonnie.
Our next question comes from the line of Erik Bloomquist with Berenberg.
Hello Jacek.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Couple of questions.
Firstly following on in Russia.
I was just wondering if you could confirm that you’re still seeing substantial up-trading as it looks like Bond Street was actually taking a bit more share say relative to Parliament.
And then related to that I was wondering two things if you're -- what you’re estimating is the effect from the greater smoking restrictions or is that going to be relatively modest? And how are you characterizing the risk of a greater tax increase than in the current rolling through your plan say in next year or in 2016? Up-trading in Russia and because you’re talking about the market which has a relatively high -- absolutely in the relative price gaps.
So the up-trading is better -- you’ll see up-trading better when it comes to the two segments next to each other.
And I think you’ll still see up-trading in the market.
So it’s not straight up-trading from the lower price product going to the premium product but in the segments next to each other I think you’ll see some uptick in the volume.
Hence the performance of the Parliament and also performance in the -- of our brands.
I mean usually our brands will tend to occupy the upper part of each respective segment.
The smoking ban I would say like there’s -- I mean we have experience in other markets from implementation of a similar regulations similar restrictions.
Yes you’ll have some impact at the beginning usually it comes to the moderation later on when consumer adjusts to the new consumption pattern or accommodate the fact there might be places or occasions when they cannot really smoke.
As I said this is all factored in our 9% to 11% forecast for the total volume decline.
And the key driver behind this 9% to 11% is that price increases on the back of excise increases which we’re taking this year.
So most of this 9% to 11% is the elasticity driven impact on the total market rather than accounting from a smoking restriction.
And the third part of your question we have now the second year where Russia is dealing or the Russian government is approaching the taxation of the cigarette market through this three year plan.
Every year the rates are getting reconfirmed around November I think in their legislative process I mean do mind the Cabinet.
Every year they reconfirm the next two years and they bring a rate for the third year in that plan is a rolling over plan.
So we’ll see how they reconfirm the rate this year.
I mean so far the government was very pragmatic in setting this rate on one hand balancing -- they desire to increase the tax level but on the other hand recognizing the unintended consequences namely the illicit trade which they wouldn’t like to have in that market quite right.
So I mean so far I don’t see anything which would change my opinion why the Russian Government should not act pragmatically this time.
But let’s see I mean we’ll have to wait until November.
Okay thank you.
And then just a short follow-on on Australia.
Where do you see the low and super low price segments stabilizing as a percentage of the market? Are we looking at those continuing to rise over time or do you think that they will kind of reach a natural ceiling and then stabilize? Well the prices in Australia overall the cigarette prices in Australia are pretty high.
But I haven’t seen that in other markets of the comparable maturity when the lower super low price segment will take it all.
I mean there is always medium segment there’s always a premium segment.
Usually the markets may go into polarization so it’s more the questions of the medium brand slowly being eroded by the low super low price segment and the premium somehow holds its position.
I mean obviously in Australia we’ll have to take it for the lances of the plain packaging and some equity presumably erosion of the brands.
But I don’t think it’s a 0-1 game.
I don’t think the whole market is going to go through the discount segment.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of James Bushnell with Exane.
Hi thanks and good morning.
Good morning.
I have firstly a question on Europe please.
Firstly could you give a bit more detail on the price increase in Germany? I think previously you raised prices and then pulled one so just how much is that and does it differ by brand at all? And also what do you see as the outlook for pricing in Europe as we go through the rest of the year? Here you have outlined that Italy is the drag but what about elsewhere? Would we expect that to improve in H2? In Germany the price increase was on average €0.20 per pack.
As you remember Germany has various stick counts for per pack sizes the pack of 19’s and the larger packs boxes.
So per pack individual SKU the price might be slightly different.
But on average its €0.20 across the portfolio in Marlboro to the low priced -- lower priced L&amp;M and Chesterfield.
When it comes to pricing in Europe again I think we should look a little bit at the pricing in Europe excluding Italy because Italy is really dragging the price in Europe low.
And I said earlier answer I think one of the questions that the pricing impact of Italy is in the range of about -- in the tune to $100 million for the first six months of this year and that’s significant.
You will add it back to the realized pricing and you’ll see that the pricing in Europe is not as being perceived by some that we’re falling a little bit behind.
I mean in all other markets the pricing was taking -- a lot of pricing was taking at the beginning of the year usually around the tax rate increases that is especially the case in Central Europe Poland.
I said on the -- during the remarks today we recently took also the pricing in Portugal in Spain.
So I think the pricing in Europe would have to take a little bit of different view on Italy and the rest because the rest of Europe in my opinion is not looking as low as one could see.
Okay thank you.
And just to come back on the Germany price increase.
Do I see now that that’s slightly different to your previous increase that was then pulled back in terms of price caps between different size packs or is it the same? No.
I think -- no I think it’s the same with the same principal.
Okay so sorry I don’t want to say its 100% the same because maybe there was some completely irrelevant fine tuning on one or two SKUs by the same principal its €0.20 across the board on average.
Okay thank you.
And my second question was just on Korea.
What from your perspective is the likelihood of a tax raise anytime soon? If it is an 80% rise in average prices which is one of the proposals that we’ve had do you think that would still be good news after any short-term disruption? Well taking into considerations that no one almost remembers when Korea had raised the tax last time.
I think this would be a good news but we’ll have to see how it unfolds.
I mean we’ve heard in the past also some rumors or some initiatives even to raise the taxes in Korea and this has not materialized.
So I think myself I’m more cautious about when Korea will have a tax increase.
Well we’ll have to see.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lavery with CLSA.
Hello.
Hi good morning.
Just a few question’s on Indonesia.
I'm curious with the 2% first half category growth what -- and with the easier comparisons in the back half why you expect the deceleration to -- second half basically flat to give the 1% category growth.
Is there some kind of headwind here you expect or consumer pressure or how do you see that unfolding? Well I mean we see so at the beginning of the year first half of the year some deceleration in the GDP growth.
So we’re always looking at the macros in order to feel more comfortable with the total industry outlook.
But I agree that 2% year-to-date growth rate for the market versus our forecast of 1% one could say that there is a potential for an upside.
And I would have to confront there is a potential for an upside.
I think I need one more quarter or at least one or two more months to reconfirm that Indonesia is moving to -- the total market is moving to the better growth rate.
I mean its good news for us but I think it was very clear in the remarks that despite the fact that the market is year-to-date 2% we still think for the 1% growth for the full-year.
Then just looking at your market share you've got the 60 basis point decline in Dji Sam Soe and the 60 basis points share from Dji Sam Soe Magnum Blue so obviously that nets to zero.
And you've got the increase over 1 point in U Mild only slightly offset by Marlboro but your total share is down over 1 point.
So how do we reconcile that as Dji Sam Soe Magnum the non-Blue down pretty significantly? No Dji Sam Soe in the machine made both Dji Sam Soe Magnum and the Magnum Blue in the machine made segment it’s actually growing as expected very nicely.
So increasing our share in this in the machine made part of the market.
Dji Sam Soe in the hand-rolled version the challenge is under one hand this consumer is going to the machine made but the prime challenge which the brand faces this year is the price point well as you see it’s above the round price point while the competitors are approaching but its still technically slightly below that price point.
So I think in Q3 we should see that sort of a headwind for the Dji Sam Soe to being removed.
And one more comment if I may when you look at the Marlboro share in Indonesia this is all weighted to the total market right by the white cigarettes market a non-kretek market and a kretek market are not necessarily highly interlinked markets which in the one cigarette market.
So I mean you’ll have sometimes the fluctuations on a Marlboro share just because the total market growth which happened last quarter came obviously for the kretek as the main driver.
So the rate of the kretek market will sometimes give you fluctuations on a Marlboro share.
That's helpful thanks.
And then on the hand-rolled price points have you seen a better balance in how the competition looks.
I know some of those have crossed the same (indiscernible) mark but it's a little scattered sort of regionally or by channels and things like that.
So is that looking like that's more consistent now across the competition? No this is as we’ve predicted that there will be a -- there’s a time needed when in a pricing [ph] [stats] in the region by region etcetera these brands or the SKUs will go in across this price point.
So some have already reached crossed some are still hanging slightly below.
I think the Q3 as we predicted initially is about the time when the Dji Sam Soe should have that price point pressure behind the (indiscernible) or in front.
Okay now that's great.
And then just last question on Indonesia as you’ve mentioned in the release how the optimizing production was -- contributed higher costs but certainly it seems like if you're optimizing production that would be a better cost profile.
So is it right to assume those are one-time and how significant was that and is that behind you now? Well Indonesia is optimization or production is essentially to manage the capacity between hand-rolled capacity and the machine made capacity.
So it’s a little bit different that optimizations which we undertook in Australia and in Holland in Bergen op Zoom.
Yes that’s it.
So they’ll have some cost associated with managing the hand-rolled capacity not transforming the hand-rolled to July capacity into machine made capacity.
Well I guess I'm just trying to understand what that is.
Do you have an ongoing cost like do you just have idle factories of people making hand-rolled that aren't producing – I mean what’s the cost that hit in this quarter is it a one-time plant closure cost or is it something ongoing? Well these are the costs associated with the down siding.
So they don’t really qualify into reporting adjustments therefore we have not carried out in our reconciliation from a reported to adjusted result they sit in our underlying numbers.
But the cost is essentially about what we need to unfortunately the results were the termination of the employment of hand-rollers and there are smaller and creating a capacity on the machine in the factories which are producing machine made cigarettes.
Okay now that’s helpful.
So even if we keep it in the adjusted number can you give any sense of what the magnitude is in terms of how to think about the comparison next year? No but what we’ve done is if you remember not in the case of Indonesia but if you remember in Q1 of this year we have said that our cost associated with the closure of the plant in Australia would be $0.03 out of $0.01 was recorded in Q1 which was reporting adjustment and the $0.02 which will pick up later on but not as reporting adjustment.
Now I will have a boss which also I’m incurring some costs which do not qualify by U.S GAAP rules as the reporting adjustments.
I will incur this cost this year in order to complete this project.
So in total if I take all the projects together in my underlying results you’re talking about the $0.02 to $0.04 which I associated with the cost of a closure or adjusting the -- or factoring the footprint and the capacity optimization.
Okay thanks.
That’s helpful.
(Indiscernible) underlying.
This is not part of the reporting adjustment.
Right Okay.
And then just on the Netherlands plant closure that scales if I believe for September 1<sup>st</sup> if that goes as planned some of that benefit would come in fourth quarter of this year correct? Very small I don’t think -- no this will not be material because you’ll need to take September 1 with the location of the production.
You obviously having rent rates in the meantime which we already produce etcetera.
So this will not materially impact this.
(Indiscernible) pick up the full impact of boss of a better (indiscernible) some restructuring next year 2015.
So it would lag even if the plant is closed for three or four months later this year.
There wouldn’t be a savings benefit really in 2014? No but I will have as I mentioned before I will have also some cost associated with the closure of that plant which I mean my underlying results the net of this project you will not see the material impact of that thing.
Actually I will be more out weighted on the cost than the benefit which I may pick up for the literally few weeks of this year.
Okay now that’s helpful thanks.
And then I know Australia has been covered a bit but just one last question there if we can.
Can you just help us understand some of the dynamics? It seemed like even with plain packaging coming in this didn't -- there wasn’t any real issue over the first kind of 13 months during last year and when it started in December.
And now certainly it looks like it's a different picture in 2014.
What started all this? I mean what was kind of the trigger that made the issues for you become something you would call out and is it directly related to plain packaging value brand erosion happening maybe more quickly than people might have thought or can you just explain some of those -- kind of what started all this? Well I mean what started when I start discounting was much earlier in the market in plain packaging.
So the market always was correct arising by some level of a discounting when people were essentially buying down the price for a consumer at the retail level.
What we have observed that towards the end of the last year frankly speaking there was an increased discounting activity by some of our competitors.
So when we look at our share erosions which I think was pretty visible in the first quarter I mean it was obvious decision that we had to react stay competitive and not allow the shares to further decline.
So yes there is obviously the element of the plain packing in the whole thing but I think we couldn’t just attribute the current situation entirely to plain packaging but plain packaging clearly but the fact that somebody took away your trademarks erodes the equity of my brand.
I mean erodes the equity of my product.
So there is an element of the thing how much you would attribute to this I mean it’s difficult to say at this stage.
You cannot ignore it but this is not the only element which was which is happening there.
This is all in the context of very significant tax increase which took historically in the last year and also will happen this year in the market because last year September you had 12.5% extra tax increase – excise tax increase.
We in September of this year we will have another 12.5% additional excise tax increase.
I mean that obviously makes the end of year after so it makes the significant price -- it drives to the significant price increases.
And obviously as the market already had the cigarettes at the price of average of about $17 per the pack of 25 of the 25 cigarettes you’ll have a natural sort of a tendency to go into the down-trading which can be further fueled if you active discounting because you open the gap.
Maybe if you look at the market and you realize that the price gaps are in the range of $6 to $8 I mean that’s the price level per pack in many other markets.
And in Australia we have the price gaps of that margin issue obviously because the underlying prices per pack are already pretty high.
But $6 or $8 sort of the erosion in the mix is already pretty significant.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Owen Bennett with Nomura.
Hi Jacek.
Hi good morning.
And just a quick one I’m just wondering on the EEMA top-line performance how much of this was driven by the change in Egypt business structure? How long will this benefit continue before it lapse or was it more a one-off influence in the quarter? Thank you.
Okay.
There was an impact of that in Egypt obviously because of the business structure but there was an underlying growth in Egypt and the entire very strong quarter for the region very much driven by the price came not only from Russia but came from North Africa some other markets in Egypt.
Egypt played the critical role but this is in addition of us now reporting Egypt the difference due to the business structure change this year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer with Cowen and Company.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Vivien.
In terms of the improvement in the EU I appreciate fully that you are waiting to get the full June results before you have the confidence to raise your guidance for the region.
I was curious if you could speak to the sequential trends through the quarter and if there was any one or two key markets that really kind of drove the improved outlook relative to what you had offered at your Analyst Day? Just to clarify we’re not giving guidance at the segment level Vivien so we’re giving an outlook when it comes to total market right? Certainly yes.
But that’s -- no I mean we’ll look at the June results.
I mean the markets which we -- I mean all of the market essentially confirmed what we’ve seen over the last five six seven months depending on the market trends.
If you look at the total market trend they are three markets which are today somehow lagging behind in terms of declined rate should be better i.e.
lower than the entire region.
One of this market is France.
So we have to watch it but I don’t think its going to change dramatically total EU picture.
And the two other markets they are relatively smaller market is Greece and Hungary.
So I have three markets which I wish would follow the trend line of the rest of the region.
But even in absence of this I think EU as we announced today in my remarks EU outlook for the full year is close it’s around 5% and its based on the sequential improvements which we saw.
Excellent.
Well that’s certainly good news.
Just a follow-up quickly on Indonesia I appreciate why you’re holding your guidance I think that makes a lot of sense.
I was curious whether embedded in that was an outlook for any change in the fuel subsidy I know we’re still waiting to see how the presidential election unfolds as they count the ballots but it does seem like that might be a reality in that market very late into ’14? To my recollections there is not much I haven’t -- I don’t really recall there was discussions about any changes to the fuel subsidies recently until -- unless I’ve missed something but I don’t think so.
On the presidential elections all fine and we will have to see how does it unfold and how what’s the new direction -- political direction there.
Now I was much more -- we’re much more looking into the GDP development the pricing development etcetera and based on this we’re trying to the best of our knowledge to estimate the market growth.
But as I indicated a moment before I do admit that with a 2% year-to-date our 1% outlook it maybe too cautious.
We will have to see.
I mean at this market -- as you know is a market which has a lot of stick sales the levels of the sales and the consumptions can pretty rapidly change in these places.
So we will have to see.
Yes that makes sense.
And lastly maybe it is still too early but I was wondering whether you wanted -- could offer any commentary as you go into your city tests on the iQOS can you dimensionalize for us how you’re thinking about the pricing of the iQOS system relative to other competitive novel tobacco systems and their respective markets of Japan and Italy? You know me; I’m a great fan of iQOS.
I’m using this product.
I wish I could share this with you but I can’t.
Fair enough.
One thing when we talk about the iQOS which is also to explain a little bit our cost variance this year.
And I know that I’m bridging from your questions to something else but its important to remember that the two test markets on iQOS will happen in Q4 this year okay.
And this obviously will also contribute -- one of the contributing element when we will have a less favorable cost towards the end of the year versus the previous period -- previous year.
That makes perfect sense.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Spielman with Citi.
Hello.
Thank you very much for taking the question.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
It’s a question about Italy and the outlook for changes in the tax situation there.
Now I believe or I’ve seen that there was an announcement I think in the last day or two of what I believe is a very small increase in tax but an increase nonetheless.
And I was wondering first of all if you could just confirm that I’m right that it’s pretty marginal.
And secondly and perhaps more importantly to comment if you can about how you think and when you think there will be a substantial change in the tax situation in Italy? Thank you.
You’re absolutely right.
There was a very small almost cosmetic sort of a change which resulted in I think a 0.1 -- I know it’s a 0.1 incident increase.
The increase the specific the minimum excise tax on cigarette by a €1 and the minimum excise tax on the fine cut products by €3.
So this is -- there is some sort of a legacy coming from still last year and just Italy was pretty late in translating this into the tax rate.
This has nothing to do with the tax restructuring which in our understanding is that the government is debating as we speak.
So we will see how does it unfold.
I mean I think there are number of people who are recognizing that the tax structure which Italy has today is pretty archaic.
I mean it doesn’t stand to the market requirements both on the government revenue side -- very much on the government revenue side but also into overall market.
So let’s see.
When would you expect to have news on a substantial reform? Well because it is Italy the expectations with regards to time you have to be pretty flexible.
Okay.
But this calendar year I guess? As I said it’s Italy so we will have to see.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from the line of Erik Bloomquist with Berenberg.
Thanks for taking that.
I was actually -- I had the same question as Adam.
So I’m all sorted.
Thank you.
So I will give the same answer I guess.
Superb.
And at this time we have no further questions.
I’d like to turn the floor back over to Nick for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
Thank you all for joining us.
That concludes our call for today.
If you have any follow-up questions the investor relations team is currently in Switzerland.
We’d be happy to talk to you.
Thanks again.
Have a great day.
Good day and welcome to the Philip Morris International Third Quarter 2014 Earnings conference call.
Today’s call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Philip Morris International management and the question and answer session.
In order to ask a question please press the star key followed by the number one on your touchtone phone at any time.
Media representatives on the call will also be invited to ask questions at the conclusion of the questions from the investment community.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Nick Rolli Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Welcome and thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we issued a press release containing detailed information on our 2014 third quarter results.
You may access the release on our website at <a href="http://www.pmi.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.pmi.com</u></a>.
During our call today we’ll be talking about results for the third quarter of 2014 and comparing them to the same period in 2013 unless otherwise stated.
A glossary of terms dated tables showing adjustments to net revenues and OCI for currency and acquisitions asset impairment exit and other costs free cash flow calculations and adjustments to earnings per share or EPS as well as reconciliations to U.S.
GAAP measures are at the end of today’s webcast slides which are posted on our website.
Please note that reduced risk products or RRPs is the term we use to refer to products with the potential to reduce individual risk and population harm in comparison to smoking combustible cigarettes.
Today’s remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results.
I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statements disclosure in today’s presentation and press release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections or forward-looking statements.
It’s now my pleasure to introduce Jacek Olczak our Chief Financial Officer.
Jacek? Thank you Nick and welcome ladies and gentlemen.
Our volume and financial results in the current quarter came in slightly above our expectations.
Our organic cigarette volume decreased by just 0.4% due to an improvement in industry volume trends and higher PMI market shares in the EU and EEMA regions which nearly offset relatively modest volume declines in the Asia and Latin America and Canada regions.
Net revenues excluding currency and acquisitions increased by 4% while adjusted OCI was up by 4.3% on the same basis.
This growth was driven by the EEMA and Latin America and Canada regions thanks in large part to higher pricing most notably in Russia.
It was partly offset by previously announced investments behind our brand and iQOS.
Adjusted diluted EPS excluding currency grew by 10.4% to $1.59 driven primarily by continued strong profit growth across the EEMA and Latin America and Canada regions.
For the first nine months of the year we achieved growth in currency-neutral adjusted diluted EPS of 11.9%.
Let me remind you however that we will face a much more challenging comparison in the fourth quarter.
Ex-currency adjusted diluted EPS grew by 19.4% in the fourth quarter of 2013 and the pattern of our expenses this year is weighted much more heavily to the remainder of the year.
In addition we will be making significant investments in the fourth quarter behind the pilot launches of our iQOS platform and Marlboro HeatSticks in Nagoya Japan and Milan in Italy.
We will also make additional investment in the continuation of the rollout of Marlboro Red 2.0 as well as the absorption of underlying costs attributable to the optimization of our manufacturing footprint.
As announced in our earnings release this morning we are revising our 2014 reported diluted EPS guidance to a range of $4.76 to $4.81 compared with $5.26 in 2013 due predominantly to the impact of unfavorable exchange rate movement.
Since July we have witnessed a sharp decline in the value of certain key currencies versus the U.S.
dollar in particular the Indonesian rupiah and the Russian ruble.
Accordingly at prevailing exchange rates our guidance now includes a full year unfavorable currency impact of approximately $0.72 per share versus $0.61 in our previous guidance.
In addition there was one additional cent in the third quarter in after-tax asset impairment and exit cost related to the termination of cigarette manufacturing in the Netherlands and it is anticipated that there will be a further one cent in the fourth quarter related to the closure of our factory in Australia.
Our underlying business performance is slightly better that our previous expectations.
While consumer downtrading and heavy discounting in Australia have persisted there has been an improvement in the EU region and Indonesia and continued strong profit momentum in the EEMA and Latin American and Canada regions.
Excluding the impact of currency and after-tax impairment and exit costs totaling $0.27 related to previously disclosed footprint optimization initiatives our adjusted diluted EPS are projected to increase by approximately 6.5 to 7.5% compared to the $5.40 achieved in 2013.
Our revised guidance results in a narrowing of the growth range around its midpoint.
I will now discuss the recent developments in key regions and markets starting with the EU region.
The third quarter confirmed the improving cigarette industry volume trend with a decline of 3.4% thereby bringing the year-to-date September decline rate also to 3.4%.
This represents a significant moderation compared to the 7.9% decline in the same period last year.
(Indiscernible) improvement to a slight decline in illicit rate a slowdown in the growth of e-vapor products in several markets and (indiscernible) switching to fine-cut product.
The improved trend in cigarette industry volume is visible across all six of the largest EU region markets by volume with a particularly strong improvement in the worst affected market in southern Europe.
While we do expect to see some acceleration in the decline in the fourth quarter due to recent price increases notably in Germany and the impact of the more challenging industry volume comparison versus the fourth quarter of 2013 we are now forecasting a full-year decline of approximately 4%.
Our market share performance in the EU region continues to be very strong with growth of 1.2 points in the third quarter to 39.7% and 1 point year-to-date September to 39.8%.
The growth has been broadly based with share gains this year in all six of the largest EU region markets by volume.
Our share growth reflects the strength of our key international brands Marlboro L&amp;M and Chesterfield.
These brands now represent the top 3 industry brands in the region.
In the third quarter Marlboro gained 0.2 share points to reach 19.1% the growth momentum being reinforced by the successful rollout of Marlboro Red 2.0.
L&amp;M’s share was stable at 7% with a notable performance in Germany.
Chesterfield continued its particularly strong performance gaining 1.4 share points to reach a regional share of 5.8%.
The share growth was driven by Italy where it was price repositioned in February of this year as well as by successful line extensions in Poland.
The combination of more modest cigarette industry volume declines and share gains has resulted in an improved PMI volume performance.
Were it not for the issues related to the excise tax structure in Italy this would have translated into ex-currency adjusted OCI growth in the EU region year-to-date September.
In addition our profits are being impacted by costs related to the ending of cigarette manufacturing in the Netherlands and to the build-up of our commercial infrastructure in the U.K.
We are cautiously optimistic that as of 2015 the EU region should contribute to PMI’s profit growth provided that improved cigarette industry volume trends continue.
I will now discuss some of our key markets in the Asia region beginning with Japan.
Year-to-date September industry volume in Japan declined by 3.2% which is in line with our forecast decline range of 3 to 3.5% for the full year.
The third quarter provided further evidence of our success in stabilizing our market share.
Excluding the impact of trade inventory movements our market share has remained around 25.9% since the fourth quarter of 2013.
The share stabilization has been driven primarily by Lark which is performing well following the successful morphing of the Philip Morris brand in April as well as the recent revamp of the Lark brand family.
Our share has also benefited from the rollout of the Be Marlboro marketing campaign and the August launch of Marlboro Clear Hybrid a smooth-tasting regular to menthol capsule product which achieved 0.6% market share in September.
Going forward we believe that our pipeline of new innovative products should further reinforce our competitive position in Japan.
In the Philippines third quarter tax paid cigarette industry volume was down by 3.2%; however as Mighty Corporation continues to significantly under-declare its sales volume for excise tax purposes the trends in the tax paid market remain distorted.
We estimate that Mighty is paying excise taxes on less than half of its total sales.
Market research (indiscernible) smoking incidents and at daily consumption showed continued resilience.
The Bureau of Internal Revenue issued its expected regulation on tax stamps.
This requires manufacturers to affix tax stamps on all locally manufactured packs of cigarettes; however there are still significant technical issues with the production of the stamps resulting in a delay in implementation.
In Indonesia cigarette industry volume trends are subject to quarterly fluctuations.
This was evident in the third quarter when industry volume increased by an unexpectedly vigorous 4.9% driven by growth in the machine-made kretek segment.
On a 12-month moving basis industry volume is up by 2.8% and for the full year we expect industry volume to grow by around 2%.
While our market share remained below the previous year’s level we continued to achieve positive sequential share momentum with 35.5% in the third quarter following shares of 34.6 and 34.9% in the first and second quarters respectively.
This growth has been driven by our strong performance in the growing lighter tasting machine-made kretek segment behind Sampoerna A U Mild and Dji Sam Soe Magnum Blue.
We have also seen a recent stabilization in the share of our key hand-rolled kretek brand Dji Sam Soe as competitive brands have crossed critical price points.
<br>Let me now turn to Russia where our business performance continues to be strong.
In (indiscernible) we reached a market share of 27.4% and on a year-to-date August basis our share increased by 0.9 points to 27%.
The strong performance was driven by (indiscernible) and Parliament mid price L&amp;M and low price Bond Street and Next.
2014 has been characterized by significant retail price increases driven in large part by the sizeable excise tax increase that took place at the beginning of the year.
Retail prices have increased by some 17% in the premium segment and 30% at the low end of the market.
This has resulted in an estimated September year-to-date cigarette industry volume decline of 9.4% and we expect a decline of 9 to 10% for the full year; however we have been able to boost margins through higher prices.
On September 20 the cabinet submitted draft amendments to the tax code including proposed excise tax rates for the period of 2015 to 2017.
This proposal was submitted to the Duma for further consideration and approval.
The amendments are essentially in line with previous legislation and do not include features that we consider to be particularly disruptive.
Should the amendment be signed into law by the president as foreseen this November the new excise tax rates would take effect on January 1 2015.
While cigarette industry volume has declined significantly this year in Russia it has remained essentially stable in the rest of the EEMA region.
This stability is attributable to Turkey the Middle East and North Africa.
Our business is performing well.
We grew our year-to-date September regional market share by 0.1 points to 25.1%.
Combined with strong pricing this led to an increase in original adjusted OCI excluding currency and acquisitions of 20.8% year-to-date September.
The business outlook remains very positive thanks to the strength of Marlboro and Parliament in many key markets.
Marlboro has been one of the key drivers of our favorable global market share momentum.
In the third quarter the brand gained 0.3 share points in the Latin America and Canada region and 0.2 share points in the EU and EEMA regions.
Its share was stable overall in the Asia region.
Parliament our (indiscernible) premium proposition has been a contributor not only to share growth but also to improved profits as its volume increased by 9.3% in the third quarter to 12.9 billion units.
The brand gained share across a broad range of markets including Japan Kazakhstan Russia Saudi Arabia and Turkey.
Pricing remained a key driver of our adjusted OCI growth during the third quarter.
Our pricing variance reached $491 million for the quarter and $1.4 billion for the first nine months of the year.
This has been boosted by our new business structure in Egypt partially offset by Italy.
During the third quarter we increased prices in a number of markets across the region most notably in Argentina Germany Indonesia and Spain.
We are on track to achieve again this year our historical average of approximately 1.8 billion in annual pricing variance.
Let me now take a moment to provide a brief update on our Reduced Risk product.
As I speak we are in the final stage of preparing for the pilot launches in Japan and Italy of our heat-not-burn iQOS product platform and Marlboro HeatSticks.
These launches will be made without any reduced exposure or reduced risk claims.
As already announced the official launch of iQOS in Nagoya Japan’s fourth largest city will take place on November 4.
iQOS kits and Marlboro HeatSticks will be available at over 1 000 retail outlets in Nagoya including the world’s first iQOS flagship store located in a city center.
The iQOS kit will have a recommended retail price of ¥6 980 or approximately $65 while Marlboro HeatSticks in regular and menthol variants will retail at ¥460 per pack or 20 or approximately $4.29 at price parity with Marlboro cigarettes.
Our HeatSticks have been classified by the Ministry of Finance in Japan in a category that results in an effective excise tax rate that is lower than cigarettes.
Our second pilot launch will take place in Milan in Italy later this year.
For competitive reasons we will not disclose any details at this time.
In September our board approved a 6.4% increase in our quarterly dividend to an annualized rate of $4 per share.
As a result this year we will exceed our target dividend payout ratio of 65% reflecting our strong confidence in our business fundamentals and future prospects.
Our dividend yield last Friday was 4.7%.
During the third quarter we spent $750 million to repurchase a further 8.9 million shares at an average price of $84.54 per share.
We continue to target total spending of $4 billion on share repurchases during 2014.
Since the spring through the end of September this year we have returned over $70 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
In conclusion third quarter and year-to-date results were slightly above our expectations.
As mentioned we will face a much more challenging comparison in the fourth quarter.
We have revised our 2014 reported diluted EPS guidance due predominantly to the impact of unfavorable exchange rate movement.
On a currency neutral adjusted diluted basis we have narrowed the growth range around the midpoint to approximately 6.5 to 7.5%.
While consumer downtrading and heavy discounting have unfortunately persisted in Australia we have been able to offset this through a better performance in the EU region and Indonesia while the EEMA and Latin America regions have continued to perform very strongly.
The iQOS pilot launches in Japan and Italy this quarter mark an important milestone for our Reduced Risk products portfolio.
We are excited to bring this product to market and strongly believe that this could represent the first step in a positive paradigm shift for both PMI and the tobacco industry.
Looking ahead to 2015 and 2016 we remain confident that our business fundamentals are improving and confirm our goal of returning to currency neutral net revenue and adjusted OCI annual growth within our mid to long-term annual target rate of 4 to 6% and 6 to 8% respectively after taking into account the anticipated investment behind the commercial expansion of our Reduced Risk product.
On this basis we target a currency neutral adjusted diluted EPS annual growth rate of 8 to 10% for this period.
Thank you.
I will be now happy to answer your questions.
Good morning Bonnie.
Hi Jacek.
I guess I’m trying to understand a few moving parts.
On one hand your total shipment volume was better than expected and you took share but on the other hand your operating margins were down 230 basis points so I’d be curious to hear how much of the margin pressure you experienced in the quarter was from a negative mix shift in the portfolio versus the higher costs you’ve been experiencing.
And then could you give us a sense of how downtrading pressures have been trending so far in Q4? There is some mix pressure obviously coming mainly from Asia from Australia but I think it’s more due to the increased investment as previously anticipated or announced in the second half of the year.
We have increased the investment in Q3 and we will have more of the investment going into Q4 for the reasons which I mentioned in my remarks so this is what stands behind the movement in operating margin.
Okay and then I have a few questions on Asia specifically Japan.
Are you seeing any shift in your portfolio mix due to the tax increase and then could you quantify for us the negative impact of inventory movements or maybe give us a sense of how much this impacted your volume and profits in the country in the quarter? Well we could see a better performance of Lark partially following the successful morphing from Philip Morris into Lark and also some marketing initiatives which we put behind the brand.
Lark obviously is also slightly more—you know lower price than the premium brands in the market.
I think it’s a little bit too early to say what this pricing move—you know unequal pricing moves over 20 and ¥10 have created in terms of a dynamic behind the brand but yes I think Lark is doing slightly better than Marlboro in this comparison.
When it comes to that adjustment which we’re making in Japan it’s essentially we’re trying to adjust the inventories to reflect the total market outlook and still year-on-year.
I mean our lower share as you might notice we stabilized our share on a sequential basis but versus last year we’re still down and these adjustments are essentially to represent (indiscernible).
So I think you have—just to give you a number I think on the inventory you have about half a billion units on inventory adjustment in Q3.
Okay that’s helpful.
Then my last question is on the e-vapor slowdown in the EU that you mentioned.
What are you seeing in terms of the key trends and pressures on this category and then does this give you even more confidence in your iQOS platform? Well the trends essentially are the same trends which I talked about that we talked about at the investors’ day on the second quarter.
The consumers aren’t moving into (indiscernible) system.
I think we all know the reasons behind it – I mean the first product launches in the e-cigarette category are not really satisfying the consumer so the acceptance rates are falling down.
That’s about the trend.
Most of the markets in essentially all of the markets we see the same so it’s just the continuation of the trend.
Now does this give us more optimism behind iQOS? I think it was more than a year or two years ago when we said that the current technology behind the e-cigarette doesn’t (indiscernible) that well.
We think that iQOS is by far a much better satisfying product.
We have confirmed it in our tests before going to the test market.
As you remember the acceptance rate—I mean consumers who fully switched from a conventional cigarette combustible cigarettes to iQOS proposition were really very high – they were reaching 30%.
I think we were encouraged by this result and hence we’re going to the test market.
So I don’t think this change in the trends or continuation of this negative trend in e-cigarettes gives us more confidence behind the iQOS.
Frankly speaking we have that confidence so we are a very high level of confidence when it comes to iQOS.
And then maybe lessons learned on pricing too just in terms of the affordability of the e-vapor category relative to where you’re pricing iQOS and the HeatSticks.
You’re pricing them you mentioned at parity I think with Marlboro I believe you mentioned.
Yes this is how we positioned the product in Japan although we are not disclosing the details for Milan but you understand our philosophy – I mean that has a benefit therefore I think that product deserves to be sold at a premium price so this is—I think we’d state what we have said before that that’s the positioning based on how much effort we have put into developing this product despite the fact that we’re not claiming other benefits in Japan.
But we are aware about also the science which we have put in validating the benefits of this product.
I think it all comes together and makes this product deserving of being put in the premium segment at the premium price.
All right thank you Jacek.
Thank you very much.
Hi Jacek.
So first just maybe on FX and obviously the currency market continues to be very volatile and if we just assume maybe prevailing rates just trying to gauge the impact on 2015 really and I get to number of something like a negative $0.35 or so.
So can you just confirm that that’s kind of in the ballpark of where you see the impact in 2015 at current rates especially when you take into consideration the effective hedge rates on the yen.
I wouldn’t go into 2015 at this stage.
You know that our practice was we always gave this—we talk about the impact of the currency at the time when we give the guidance for the year.
One thing which I’m not presumably disclosing anything new if you look what is happening in the currency market over the last 24 hours 48 hours away it’s an extremely volatile market so I think it’s another presumably reason when it’s better not to give any number or confirm any sort of range at this stage.
Just on the yen though Jacek I think the last time you talked about the effective hedge at 98 for this year has there been any change to that number as we think about the year-over-year impact? Yes there is a bit of the impact of the yen.
The effective rate will be higher than 98.
In the revised guidance for the currency at the spot rate which we gave today when we revised the impact by an additional negative $0.11 yen actually just (indiscernible) contribute $0.01.
I mean most of the impact which we get which we have in this $0.11 additional is coming from Russian ruble and the rupiah the Indonesian rupiah.
So yen just adds an additional $0.01 and very much because last portion of our cash flow to revenues from Japan is already—was already hedged.
Okay.
Then just in terms of what you’re seeing and the Russian market just wondering if any of the recent volatility in the currency fluctuation is having any impact in terms of demand or the pricing the competitive dynamics in that market.
Your volume in the third quarter in Russia was up 0.8% market share obviously was up but was there any benefit in terms of any year-over-year inventory movement that boosted your shipment number as well? No actually the volume the shipment volume I think was down by 0.4.
The shipment volume was not up.
Market share was up and this partially is why our shipment volume is better than overall market performance.
It’s partially coming from the strong performance of our brands.
The share advancements which we are realizing in Russia at the tune of the (indiscernible) so that’s significant.
There is obviously some timing of the shipment to our distributors but I think overall it’s the performance of both Parliament which you know that’s very positive if you take into consideration the magnitude of the pricing which we have realized in the market but also Bond Street so it nicely—you know I think the portfolio there is nicely complementary and that stands behind the better share and hence the better shipment versus the total market.
And any color on the recent trends given the recent volatility in that market? Yes sorry – I missed this one.
Not really.
I mean you see our outlook for the full year even taking into consideration the implemented and announced price increases in Russia it’s still that the market is going to decline in the range of 9 to 10%.
If you would just calculate what is the resulting price elasticity everyone would realize that Russia is a very normal for our category for a tobacco category elasticity range so that (indiscernible) at this stage any headwinds coming from the currency from inflation or other macros.
Now this is the situation as of today.
We will have to obviously watch and we do watch carefully how the situation may unfold into the next period but as I said I think our comfort on Russia is also coming through the well-laddered portfolio of brands and I’ll repeat myself starting with the premium Parliament in the premium going through the value mid-price brands low price brands.
So I think on that one I think we should be able to hedge any potential headwinds if they were to materialize.
Got it.
Okay thank you.
Thank you very much Judy.
Hi good morning.
Thanks Jacek.
Good morning and congratulations I guess right? Yes – thank you it’s exciting.
So two questions from me.
First I wanted to follow up on the price mix question specifically for Europe.
I’d expected to see some sequential improvement in pricing realization within the region given Germany Portugal Spain but that didn’t seem to materialize during the quarter but is more at the regional level.
Market share trends were very strong – maybe that’s positive but just wondering if you’re seeing incremental downtrading overall within your portfolio or shifts within Marlboro to some of the lower priced variants that are weighing on overall pricing realization.
I mean the pricing – yes it was very low pricing.
The variants coming from the EU this quarter it’s partially the timing when we took the price increase in Germany and obviously there was a negative – which is in this number – coming from Italy.
Just to remind we are in the VAT absorption for the three quarters of this year obviously including the third quarter is going to be about behind us around the mid of the fourth quarter and obviously there was a Chesterfield repositioning.
If I would look in detail market by market in the EU region I would see—I can see the positive pricing variance coming essentially from most of the countries with the exception as I mentioned of Italy so Italy is an overall drag if you like on the pricing variance in the region.
Obviously downtrading – I think again I would have to go to Italy.
I mean Chesterfield which is now—you know recorded market share well above 10% there is a bit of a decline of Marlboro to the tune of about a point.
So yes there is some downtrading but this is also the reason why we have lowered the beginning of the price of Chesterfield in order to stop total market share erosion on our side.
Okay.
And the brand responded very well so I think that part of the exercise went very well.
Okay.
So really the only thing that would change much sequentially in the fourth quarter would be the headwind from Italy becoming less severe.
On the pricing variance yes.
Okay.
On the pricing variance because on the OCI as I mentioned in my remarks one of the tests markets which we’ll be conducting is in Italy is in the European Union and the second EU was on the forefront and is on the forefront of the rollout of Marlboro 2.0 architecture; hence in our remarks I think I made this comment that despite the fact that the volumes and our shipment volume is performing very strongly and is great for this year and even greater for 2015 however this year our profitability will be impacted as we cannot convert it into the profitability growth due to Marlboro 2.0 iQOS and some underlying costs due to shutting down the cigarette manufacturing at our factory in Holland.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thanks.
Secondly just on currency specifically on hedging given the persistence and the magnitude of the currency headwind have you considered at all changing the internal philosophy toward how you manage FX risk perhaps including more active hedging or if not that maybe encouraging local country managers to more actively offset transactional FX through pricing or discretionary reductions in operating costs? This would require a significant change to the risk profile if you like which we’d like to have.
I mean as is presumably known to the community most of the impact of the currency on our results comes from the translation and the range of 70 to 80% of the impact which we have on our translation is not on the transactions.
So our philosophy obviously has an impact on our reported results but I don’t think we should be moving closer to something which would add an element of speculation into—volatility into our performance.
Okay.
Then just to confirm historically we’ve thought of your hedging practices as isolated within sort of euro-yen and perhaps dollar-yen.
Are there any others that you are actively hedging just when we’re thinking about the disconnects between our currency model and— There are some hedges which we’re doing on the—associated with the leaf purchases in Turkey but most of the hedges are around the yen and the balance sheet hedges on our positions on the euro.
Okay.
All right thank you again Jacek.
Thank you very much.
Hi good morning.
Hi Chris.
I just had a question for you to start off on—just to understand the third quarter and maybe the fourth quarter the phasing of costs that may be coming through.
If I could just list what I was—when I’ve been watching this obviously the Marlboro 2.0 obviously there are some costs related to that – I think that cuts across all regions – obviously the closure of Bergen op Zoom maybe a little bit of Australia.
And then I guess also related to that the Reduced Risk products is that heavier fourth quarter spending versus the third quarter and do you have any color you can add around the phasing and maybe in general how much those costs are a burden in profit right now? Certainly Chris I will give you color; but I would start with the 2013 fourth quarter because if you would look at our performance in 2013 you’ll realize that our phasing of the costs in the last year was much more skewed towards the first half of the year or the first three quarters of the year.
So adjusting apples to apples I had $200 million positive cost variance in Q4 of 2013 so that’s my starting position going into Q4 of this year.
It is now combined that the pattern of our spending on initiatives is much more skewed towards the second half and in particular to the Q4 of this year and that actually creates the swing on the cost Q4 on Q4 going in the range of 400 maybe 400-plus even in this comparison.
(Indiscernible).
Now drivers of this additional—of this investment in the second half or in the Q4 of this year is as I mentioned in the case of the EU before is iQOS launch in Milan.
There was some preparation cost already falling into Q3 but most of that will hit my Q4 results.
Marlboro 2.0 would be the remainder part of the markets in the EU which would roll out the Marlboro new architecture in the Q4 and there was this underlying cost associated or related to the closure of the factory.
To give you magnitude the underlying costs which we carried this year due to the restructuring both in Holland and in Australia is in the range of about—will hit my Q4 results in a range of about $40 million.
So you start adding these numbers you will see why we’re saying that the Q4 results—I mean it will not be as great as Q3 or Q2 this year and this is reflected in our guidance.
Sure.
That was actually very good color.
Thank you for all that detail.
If I could ask a second question – in relation to your guidance for the year which you’ve now kind of narrowed the guidance range for EPS do you have the same assumption for Australia built into that guidance? Has that gotten any better or any worse than what you thought even back from sort of the investor day back in June? No it didn’t get any worse or didn’t get any better.
As I said unfortunately the heavy discounting and the competition in the low part of the market as it intensified at the beginning of the year it continues to be pertinent and I think it’s maybe also to be more on a positive side one of the competitors made an assumption that you can have volume growth in that market by being very aggressive on the price.
You will not break the strategy until you switch off the volume growth of a given brand so I think what we’re doing part of our strategy despite the fact that it is obviously costly financially I think it actually may lead to bringing some logic to the behavior in the market.
So this is all in our guidance.
I think versus the Q2 especially at the investors’ day which I think prudence at that time had dictated that we had to recognize that there was this potential headwind coming from Australia I think at that time we were waiting for more confirmation of positive trends coming from other geographies which were nicely materializing in Q3.
But as I said I think it would be imprudent to bet on this development in Q2 and now we’re in a very comfortable position to say that this lower end of the range of the guidance which we gave at that time is no longer something which we should be worried about and we can comfortably deliver in the midpoint of that range.
The drivers I think are well known – EU had a spectacularly good improvement on the total market and our market share continues to do very well.
Indonesia is a very positive surprise – it’s coming.
We knew that the market might be stronger but I think last quarter Q3 has confirmed that the market is going in the right direction.
Also the growth momentum—you saw our OCI adjusted OCI growth in EEMA and Latin America – I mean they’re really coming very strongly.
So this is very important for us not only from a Q3 perspective but I would say even more important for us from a 2015 and beyond perspective that the roadmap which we have laid down for this year we step-by-step made progress and therefore we should return to the higher level of growth in 2015 and ’16.
Okay that was very good – thank you.
I agree so thanks so much.
Speak to you soon.
Thank you.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I have two please.
The first is on the tax situation in Italy.
I just wondered if you could give us your latest thoughts as to what might be happening and when.
I think January ’15 we were hopeful that something might change.
Then my second question is on plain packaging in Europe.
When the first country passes legislation whoever that might be do you think you could give us a roadmap about what would happen and would you be hopeful that a legal challenge to that could either delay or stop the implementation of plain packaging or is it just a case of having to take a country to court and then having to do that while their going ahead with the measure? Thank you.
Okay I’ll start with Italy.
The tax restructuring in Italy is following its normal legislative process.
We expect the objective is that this should happen still this year so it would be implemented as of January 1 next year.
I mean that’s the objective and we’ll see how it works but as I said the restructuring is being discussed and is following the normal Italian legislative process.
When it comes to plain packaging the second question which you raised there’s nothing really new which has happened recently because we were aware about Ireland we were aware about U.K.
Yes there was a statement from the Ministry of Health in France that she would propose the legislation implementing calling for implementation of plain packaging.
To date to our knowledge this is not a governmental position and no legislative initiatives have been made at least to date into this direction.
Now litigation which you have mentioned quite rightly it’s obviously in our tool box of actions which we can take in order to protect the extremely valuable trademarks which we have.
But there are also other elements which we are exploring before we reach into litigation.
But yes there is litigation which clearly is something which we will not be shy to use if this is what will be required by us.
One thing which is important to note when we talk about the U.K.
and Ireland if I am not mistaken there are nine countries today or member states in the EU which have raised their concerns to Ireland in particular and I think there are two countries already which have raised their concerns to the U.K.
vis-à-vis they announced or the indication of introducing the plain packaging in this country.
It clearly demonstrates to you or demonstrates to us that a number of member states in the EU itself are pretty much concerned whether this is the right policy to be implemented both from the perspective of the principles of internal market – and let’s remember that the whole purpose of creating the EU and the legislative powers which were given in the form of directives were to support the development of internal markets.
Frankly speaking plain packaging is not necessarily something which goes in this direction.
So yes to summarize this plain packaging is an element in our tool box and we will not be shy to use that if this is what will be required.
Okay thank you very much.
If I could just follow up – and sorry to bring up currency again but I noticed that the gap between your FX effect on your sales line versus your OCI line is widening which presumably reflects a bit more transactional hit.
I just wondered if you comment is that still mostly the yen or does the Russian ruble come in there as well? No mostly in our revised guidance the largest impact was coming from the ruble the rupiah.
The yen as I said earlier was $0.01.
We obviously had a positive Swiss franc on the cost side which more than offset the negative coming from the euro.
Sorry – I meant in terms of the transactional FX exposure that you’ve seen in Q3.
Is it mostly from the yen or is there also an impact from the ruble where I believe your costs are predominantly not in rubles whereas your revenues are? No I think it was more from the ruble.
I think it was more from the ruble on the transactional side.
Okay great.
Thank you very much for your help.
Hi Jacek.
Hi good morning.
I was hoping you could discuss in a little more detail about the tax treatment of the HeatSticks in Japan and then perhaps in Italy as well.
I was wondering if you could give us some more perspective on the tax differential what is it driven by – it is lower rate is it taxed by—you know what the basis for that is and then the ability of that tax treatment to be extended into other countries in the various regions.
Thanks.
Tax treatment in Japan results that the iQOS HeatSticks will pay a tax about 20% lower than the tax on cigarettes.
It’s classified in a different tax category for the reasons that it is not a cigarette and this is not combustible so there is another level to the tax category and the Ministry of Finance has decided to classify this product there.
It’s also very much similar to what has happened with the competitive product in that market – I mean Ploom from JT which also is classified in this tax category.
I can’t tell you more about Italy about the tax classification but as we have said also during investors’ day I think we have a pretty strong case that this product for various reasons should enjoy better taxation than the combustible conventional cigarettes.
Now how this will materialize we’ll have to see but this is what we in our engagement in the various markets took the direction which we take.
Okay.
With respect to—again another foreign exchange-related question.
Given that that has such a material impact on the balance sheet and the ability to buy back stock is this really implying that in 2015 the amount of buyback available to Philip Morris will be much more at the low end of what you suggested and does that therefore imply given your confidence in hitting kind of an 8 to 10% constant currency EPS target that the operational component of next year perhaps looks a bit stronger? We had said I think at the investors’ day that we’re looking at the range of 2 to $3 billion for next year but obviously the final target final amount will depend on two factors.
One is obviously the acquisitions and second is also importantly the development on the exchange rate which obviously with our limited headroom to further leverage the balance sheet in order to support the single-A rating that’s something which we have to and we are watching very carefully.
When we give the target in February the target will reflect the development or potential developments on both sides so I don’t want to go into—you know commit to any number for next year.
As I said we will announce it in February.
Okay thank you.
In terms of South Korea and the potential for a proposed tax increase can you speak to the likelihood of that actually passing? Hi Vivien.
Well I think there is a high likelihood that the tax increase will happen.
What we don’t know at this stage is the magnitude of that increase if it’s going to be in the range of apparently 1000 1.5 or 2001 we’ll have to see.
So this is what I can tell you at this stage and clearly it is significant a very significant tax increase but we also have to remember if my memory is not wrong that we’re approaching the tenth anniversary of no tax increase in Korea.
So I think we’ll have to take this magnitude also from the perspective of when was the last time Korea had adjusted the tax rates.
That’s fair.
Thank you.
Your key competitor in that market has not always priced I think the way that everyone would have hoped.
Is there any reason to think that they would be more constructive on pricing around the tax increase? Well I wouldn’t like to go into speculation.
Fair enough.
I mean the investment community knows that the past performance is not necessarily the best driver of the guidance for future performance so let’s stay with this.
I don’t know.
I can’t tell you.
Okay fair.
In terms of platform 2 can you just confirm that it remains on track and roughly one year behind platform 1? Yes yes.
Nothing’s changed there.
So would we expect a test in the coming six months? No we should expect the test in 2015 to end of 2015.
Okay.
But we say that the platform too is about one year—is a year behind.
As per plan it’s behind the platform 1.
So not even a consumer test? Because in Japan and Italy even though you’re going to city test in the fourth quarter didn’t you go into do some consumer testing that you spoke about at CAGNY in February? Vivien we’re talking about the two levels of consumer testing.
One is the consumer testing in terms of the all over test which obviously will be done—we will be doing first; and then there’s the consumer testing in terms of launching into the selected city or close to geography.
So always we’re going in the same—we will repeat the same sequence as we have done or as we are doing so far with iQOS platform 1.
Terrific.
So the second part of 2015.
Understood.
My last question is on the FDA submission that you’re working on jointly with Altria.
Any progress or updates on that? Do you have a sense of when you might actually make a formal submission to the FDA on MRTP? Well I think it was subject to us concluding the clinical studies and closing the entire scientific package which is to support that submission so the clinical studies as per plan we will be completing them in the mid of next year second quarter next year and then the preparation for the pack of submissions can only really start afterwards.
Very clear.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
Just turning to Indonesia you indicated that the guidance for the category for the year would be around a 2% growth rate which implies around a 1% decline in the quarter for 4Q.
I know that the comp gets about 2 points tougher but that’s around a 6 point deceleration.
Is there anything you think that’s looming that would drive that or is that just a conservative number? How are you thinking about the category dynamics there? I think we are looking at little bit on a longer time span not just the quarters.
As I indicated in my remarks on the 12-month moving basis the market is in a 2.4% decline.
I think the 2% sounds to us—seems more realistic for the full year.
Maybe it’s going to come a little bit better.
I have to admit that Q3 came better than we expected so that we recognize by changing a little bit—changing the outlook for the full year.
The market may come better because there’s not much in headwinds which I can see in the market – actually quite opposite because as long as nothing is dramatically changing in terms of drivers of the bit lower performance last year i.e.
fuel subsidies or removal of partial fuel subsidies.
I think there was spikes in food inflation.
I think that these things are slowing coming behind us so maybe the market can even do better.
But let’s see.
I think 2% is about to be realistic the realistic number as we see it at this stage.
Okay that’s helpful.
You had said that your July share was just over 35% and you came in the full quarter at 35.5.
Was that a sequential progression so you would have finished the quarter maybe around 36% and could you give any sense of how that’s continued into 4Q or for September? There was sequential growth of share in Indonesia quarter-on-quarter and also within the month.
This is very much driven by the fact that Dji Sam Soe competitors main competitors of Dji Sam Soe have crossed the critical price point of Rp12 000 per pack and as we expect at this moment that Dji Sam Soe will compete with the brands without this obstacle if you like of the psychological price point.
We should observe the better performance and Dji Sam Soe is coming actually now flat on the third quarter and year-on-year so we stabilized the brand.
Obviously our entry with extending the brand into machine-made kretek both on full flavor and lighter variants helped a lot so this is very good.
So yes we’re growing sequentially there and I think we should expect this going through the year although I think for still on a full-year basis we will be below our market share of the last year.
But I think it’s a very nice starting point which we’re building already now into 2015.
And what is the mix impact from that? Obviously you’ve lost the low-end brands and that would seem to be a benefit.
Certainly the hand-rolled Dji Sam Soe pressure would offset some of that but if that’s stabilizing is your mix a positive benefit now or is that still pressured? There is.
I don’t think it’s that much of—I mean there is some mix pressure but you have to remember that there’s a different tax level also behind the different price points and the different category of the product so the margin differential is not necessarily fully translated.
It can’t be fully translated just from the retail price perspective.
Okay great – yeah thank you.
Then just on iQOS you have the unit price that you mentioned.
Does that have any flexibility in terms of the launch period just for discounting or anything that—you know obviously you want to get people to try this or get it in people’s hands.
Certainly for a premium product I’ve seen that pricing approach but what’s the right way to think about adoption and how to make sure that’s not a prohibitive cost for people to think about up front? By the regulatory ramifications which we have in Japan we cannot have a discount on the HeatSticks on the Marlboro HeatSticks.
Oh no sorry – I didn’t mean the HeatStick I mean the iQOS unit itself.
It is an introductory price and the whole offering the introductory offering to the consumer which will be going for the iQOS heating device tobacco heating device.
So you do have room to put incentives on that? Sorry? You do have flexibility to how you price that in terms of just getting it adopted initially? I think you said it’s the ¥69.80 that’s the sort of list price I guess and you could work off of that to have an upfront discount or something? Absolutely correct.
You’re reading this like you would be in Nagoya.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Then just one last question on lower oil prices.
I know certainly in Indonesia last year we saw consumer sensitivity to inflation there.
Obviously every country is different but very broadly speaking with the big move in oil do you feel like that’s potentially a net consumer benefit enough to impact any volume outlook? Obviously it hasn’t—it’s a recent move and it hasn’t stuck for a long time necessarily but is that potentially a positive in terms of how you just look ahead for the next three six nine 12 months? I think it is positive.
I think we all would like to have oil lower right at lower prices especially Indonesia where the market its consumers are more sensitive.
Yes – I mean that is the right direction hence as I said earlier that it might be that the volumes in Indonesia will do a bit better than the 2% for the full year.
I mean let’s see how this develops but it’s positive you’re absolutely right.
Okay thank you very much.
Good morning Jacek.
Good morning.
Just one from me.
I was just wondering the pricing benefit from the change in business structure in Egypt.
I was wondering if you could quantify this and can we expect this to drop off into next year when it laps? Well the benefit is coming from in the past or in the year 2013 what we—the way we operated our structure in Egypt was that we’d been selling just the materials the components i.e.
tobacco (indiscernible) et cetera.
The manufacturing was taking place outside Philip Morris by the partners in Egypt.
As of this year we’re fully owning the entire approach fully owning the entire process and we recognize the full cost of manufacturing so this is all materials plus the conversion et cetera but also correspondingly we recognize the full revenue i.e.
the price which we’re charging to the first customer.
The impact of Egypt of this accounting or reporting reflecting business structure is in the range—at the top line at the revenue in a range of about $200 million.
This is obviously the business organic growth which we are realizing this year which is coming on top of this.
But this is how much Egypt is pushing or increasing our revenue but you also remember you have an offset in the cost base.
So when it comes to OCI the net benefit which we’re realizing due to the structure is not really inflating the numbers between the two years.
But there is organic growth in Egypt.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Hello thank you for taking the question.
I hope I can ask a question about 2015 and ’16 because you mentioned this in your press release.
In it you say and reiterate that you to hope to achieve 6 to 8% OCI growth constant currency but you also mention the costs of the expansion of Reduced Risk products.
So the question is in the context of your entire OCI is the commercial cost of the—the cost of commercializing Reduced Risk products material? I assume it is and I assume that it’s going to be one or two percentage points otherwise you wouldn’t have bothered mentioning it in your press release.
That’s the question – thank you.
Yes (indiscernible).
Yes there is an increased cost of iQOS which is already included in our overall target for the next year.
Obviously when we come in February we will give the proper detailed guidance for the year but from the very beginning we said that we’re targeting 6 to 8% adjusted OCI growth ex-currency in 2015 and ’16 and this number includes the cost also obviously in the later part of this period the revenue coming from iQOS.
So this is all included there and there will be quite an increase or a substantial increase of our spending behind iQOS next year but this number is included in our target.
Okay but just to confirm it is a material amount that is included? Yes but I will not disclose— How material – I knew you wouldn’t do that but that’s clear.
Thank you very much.
It’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
That concludes our call for today.
If you do have any follow-up questions you can contact the Investor Relations team.
We’re currently here in Switzerland.
Thank you again and have a wonderful day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day.
And welcome to the Philip Morris International Fourth Quarter 2014 Full Year Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Philip Morris International management and the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Media representatives on the call will also be invited to ask questions at the conclusion of the questions from the investment community.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Nick Rolli Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Welcome and thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we issued a press release containing detailed information on our 2014 fourth quarter and full year results.
You may access the release on our website at www.pmi.com.
During our call today we’ll be talking about results for the fourth quarter and full year 2014 and comparing them to the same period in 2013 unless otherwise stated.
A glossary of terms data table showing adjustments to net revenues and OCI for currency and acquisition asset impairment exit and other costs and adjustments to earnings per share or EPS as well as reconciliations to U.S.
GAAP measures are at the end of today’s webcast slides which are posted on our website.
Please note that reduced risk products or RRPs is the term we use to refer to products with the potential to reduce individual risk and population harm in comparison to smoking combustible cigarettes.
Today’s remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results.
I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statements disclosure in today’s presentation and press release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections or forward-looking statements.
It’s now my pleasure to introduce André Calantzopoulos our Chief Executive Officer.
Jacek Olczak our Chief Financial Officer will join André for the question-and-answer period.
André? Thank you Nick and welcome ladies and gentlemen.
We anticipated that 2014 would be a particularly difficult and complex year for PMI and had in fact characterized it as an investment year.
We aimed to address specific challenges in key markets such as Italy Japan and the Philippines while also investing behind a number of strategic initiatives including the pilot launches of iQOS the roll-out of the Marlboro 2.0 Architecture and the optimization of our global manufacturing footprint.
In addition we faced an operating environment of continued macro-economic weakness and unprecedented currency headwinds.
Within this context I am very pleased to announce that we delivered a solid currency-neutral performance in 2014 achieving adjusted diluted EPS growth of 7.8%.
This result exceeded the 6.5% to 7.5% guidance that we provided last November due mainly to better than expected performances in the European Union and EEMA regions.
In addition we made very substantial progress in addressing our specific key market challenges and successfully executed on our strategic initiatives.
As anticipated our fourth quarter results came in below our exceptionally strong performance in the fourth quarter of 2013.
In addition to this challenging comparison the pattern of our expenses and the timing of key investments in 2014 were skewed towards the final quarter.
Our organic cigarette volume declined by 3.8% for the quarter due to lower total cigarette industry volumes and inventory movements in the Asia and EEMA regions partly offset by market share gains in the EU and EEMA regions.
Excluding the adverse impact of inventory movements volume for the quarter declined by approximately 2%.
Net revenues increased by 1.1% excluding currency and acquisitions with favorable pricing across all regions that more than offset unfavorable volume mix due principally to the Asia region.
Adjusted OCI declined by 10.6% on the same basis due mainly to the aforementioned pattern of expenses and timing of investments.
Fourth quarter adjusted diluted EPS excluding currency of $1.31 decreased by 4.4% compared to a 19.4% increase on the same basis in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Despite a historically high adverse currency headwind we enter 2015 with strong business fundamentals and accordingly remain optimistic regarding our business prospects going forward.
Consequently this year we are targeting currency-neutral annual growth excluding acquisitions of 4% to 6% for net revenues and 6% to 8% for adjusted OCI.
Our reported diluted EPS guidance for 2015 at prevailing exchange rate is in a range of $4.27 to $4.37 versus $4.76 in 2014 and includes an unfavorable currency impact of approximately $1.15.
This guidance represents a growth rate excluding currency of approximately 8% to 10% compared to our adjusted diluted EPS of $5.02 in 2014.
As I will explain later our 2015 guidance includes incremental spending versus 2014 for the deployment of iQOS and does not include any share repurchases.
The $1.15 of unfavorable currency at prevailing exchange rates included in our 2015 guidance is driven primarily by the Russian Ruble the Euro the Japanese Yen and the Indonesian Rupiah.
These four currencies account for approximately 42% 13% 11% and 5% respectively or over 70% collectively of the total unfavorable currency variance.
We have currently hedged approximately 60% of our 2015 forecast sales to Japan which at prevailing exchange rates translates to an effective rate of 110 Yen to the U.S.
dollar.
Let me now discuss our progress in some of our regions and key markets beginning with the marked improvement in the EU region.
Total cigarette industry volume was down by 2.4% in the fourth quarter bringing the full year decline to 3.1%.
This represents a significant moderation versus the 7.4% decline in 2013 which we attribute to the subdued performance of the e-vapor category less out-switching to fine cut products a reduction in illicit trade in several markets and lower than historical average pricing mainly in Italy.
For 2015 we forecast a decline in industry -- in cigarette industry volume of approximately 4%.
Our 2014 market share performance in the EU region was impressive with a gain of 1 percentage point to 39.9% in the fourth quarter and 1 point to 39.8% for the full year.
This result reflects share growth in all six of the region’s largest markets by cigarette industry volume most notably in Italy and Poland.
In fact our share gains in conjunction with the moderating industry volume decline resulted in essentially stable PMI cigarette volume in the EU region last year.
This is a remarkable achievement and by far the region’s best cigarette volume performance since the spin.
Marlboro L&amp;M and Chesterfield were the primary drivers of our share performance in the EU region.
As of 2014 they represented the top three cigarette industry brands in the region by volume.
For the year Marlboro share grew by 0.3 points to 19.3% L&amp;M by 0.2 points to 7.1% and Chesterfield by 1.1 points to 5.5%.
The performances of Marlboro in France and Spain L&amp;M in Germany and Chesterfield in Italy and Poland were of particular note.
For 2015 we expect the EU region to return to low single-digit adjusted OCI growth excluding currency and acquisitions.
The excise tax environment remains rationale.
Our leading brand portfolio positions us well for further share gains driven by the continued rollout of the Marlboro 2.0 architecture.
In addition pricing is expected to be stronger than in 2014 in part due to recently increased cigarette prices in key markets such as Italy Poland and Spain.
Let me briefly discuss the U.K.
Government’s recent announcement that it intends to proceed with the introduction of plain packaging.
We believe this decision is ill-advised and is not based on scientific evidence.
While we maintain an ongoing dialogue with regulators and hope that reason will ultimately prevail we are prepared to pursue other alternatives including litigation to ensure the protection of our intellectual property.
Before closing on the EU Region I would like to touch briefly on Italy where the long-awaited tax reform was implemented last month.
As shown on this slide it includes a shift to a more specific structure and a higher minimum total tax both important steps in the right direction.
The reform also covered Reduced-Risk Products with Marlboro HeatSticks now subject to a lower excise tax rate compared to cigarettes.
We enter the year with favorable share momentum driven by the strong performance of Chesterfield and in mid-January we increased our cigarette prices by €0.20 per pack across our portfolio.
I will now discuss selected markets from our Asia Region beginning with Japan.
Our strategy to stabilize market share last year was successful.
Key drivers were the launch of our Be Marlboro marketing campaign the introduction of Marlboro Clear Hybrid and the strengthening of the Lark brand family through morphing and new launches.
We plan to maintain our focus on these two key brands in 2005 [sic] [2015] through a robust innovation pipeline as highlighted by the recent launch of Marlboro Fusion Blast a menthol cigarette with two different capsules that provide novel taste sensations.
And of course Japan was the first market to introduce iQOS with its pilot launch in Nagoya last November.
We plan to expand nationally in 2015.
Industry volume in Japan declined by 3.4% in 2014 consistent with our projected 3% to 3.5% decline range.
For 2015 we forecast that the decline will moderate to a range of 2.5% to 3%.
In Indonesia industry volume was up by 1.9% in 2014 to 314 billion units.
This growth was driven by a 7.5% increase in the machine-made kretek segment which now accounts for approximately 74% of the total market partially offset by a 13.1% decline in the hand-rolled kretek segment.
Our market share grew over the course of 2014 and reached 35.3% in the fourth quarter.
This sequential improvement was driven by our strong performance in the machine-made kretek segment due mainly to Dji Sam Soe Magnum and the successful launch of Dji Sam Soe Magnum Blue in April of 2014.
We now hold approximately 30% share of this growing segment led by our flagship brand Sampoerna A.
There has been a significant moderation in the volume decline of our hand-rolled products as competitive brands have followed Dji Sam Soe above the important 1 000 Rupiah per stick price point.
As hand-rolled products face a significantly lower excise tax increase in 2015 than machine-made products this bodes well for the segment where we are the market leader.
We forecast cigarette industry volume growth in 2015 of up to 2% although the market will remain sensitive to fuel and commodity prices.
While the Philippines continued to be a challenge and a drain on our 2014 income performance we have recently witnessed significant positive price movements at the lower end of the market.
After we raised the recommended stick price of Jackpot from 1.25 Pesos to 1.50 Pesos in October our main competitor increased the recommended stick prices of its brands by 0.25 pesos in December and further increases have occurred since then.
This has reduced the stick price gap to Marlboro from 1.75 Pesos in January 2014 to between 1 Peso and 1.25 Pesos currently.
We believe that the introduction of tax stamps will further improve the competitive environment in a market where cigarette consumption remained resilient last year at around 100 billion units.
These developments augur well for profitability to improve over the mid-term and we remain bullish on the prospects for this market.
I will finish my discussion of the Asia Region with a brief update on Korea.
The 120% increase in total tobacco excise taxes effective January 1st will be disruptive given its impact on the average retail selling price.
To pass the tax on we increased the retail price per pack for both Marlboro and Parliament by 1 800 Korean Won or approximately 67% to 4 500 Korean Won.
For 2015 we forecast a decline in the underlying cigarette industry volume of approximately 20% to 25%.
From an income perspective however the tax increase should not have a material impact on our business performance this year due to a gain from inventories that we were able to build prior to the tax change.
Let me now turn to Russia where we performed exceptionally well in 2014.
Market share reached 27.1% up by one full share point versus prior year.
Our share growth was driven by the strong performance of above-premium Parliament mid-price L&amp;M and low-price Bond Street which positions us well for further expansion in 2015.
Cigarette industry volume decreased by 9.2% in 2014 in line with our forecast of 9% to 10%.
The decline was due primarily to significant excise tax-driven retail price increases which averaged around 22% for PMI.
These price increases helped us boost our unit margins and total profitability in the market despite a 3.5% lower volume.
For 2015 we forecast a decline in total cigarette industry volume of 8% to 10% due to excise tax-driven price increases and a deteriorating macro-economic environment.
Moving on to our brand portfolio Marlboro was a key driver of our continued global market share momentum in 2014 with growth of 0.3 points in both the EU and EEMA Regions.
The brand’s performance was particularly strong during the fourth quarter with share growth in all four Regions providing positive momentum heading into 2015.
Marlboro’s share growth was driven by the successful initial rollout of architecture 2.0 in 26 markets starting in the EU Region and the expansion of the Be Marlboro marketing campaign to additional markets.
Beyond Marlboro we are very pleased by the strong 2014 performances of our other key international brands which demonstrate that our investments behind them are clearly paying off.
Of particular note was the continued robust growth of above-premium Parliament with cigarette volume up by 5.6% versus 2013 and notable share gains in Russia and Turkey.
Chesterfield had an exceptional year with cigarette volume growth of 22.6%.
In addition to its success in the EU Region which I covered earlier the brand grew cigarette volume in all other regions.
L&amp;M was also a success in 2014 with cigarette volume essentially stable or growing in three of our four regions and notable share gains in Germany Russia and Ukraine.
The unparalleled strength of our brand portfolio provides us with significant pricing power.
2014 was another robust year on this front with a total pricing variance of $1.9 billion.
This is in line with our historical annual average and was driven by the EEMA and Latin America and Canada Region.
For 2015 we foresee our pricing variance remaining broadly in line with that of last year.
Please note that as of today we have implemented or announced approximately 70% of the pricing that is included in 2015 EPS guidance.
We continue to focus vigorously on our cost base and in 2014 exceeded our gross productivity and cost savings target of $300 million with significant savings related to specification rationalization and procurement.
In 2015 we anticipate that our productivity and cost savings program combined with savings associated with the manufacturing footprint initiatives that we implemented in 2014 should result in a total company cost base increase excluding RRPs and currency of approximately 1%.
Turning now to our RRP portfolio 2014 opened a groundbreaking new chapter in the history of our company with the commercialization of iQOS in Nagoya Japan and Milan Italy.
As a reminder neither pilot launch is being made with any health claims.
The marketing focus is on innovation and product benefits such as no ash and less smell.
Although it is still too early for a comprehensive quantitative assessment I’m very pleased to share with you that both adult smoker and trade response is very positive and that the performance of iQOS is in line with or exceeds key indicators that we established.
We should be in a better position to provide data around the middle of this year.
In Nagoya total iQOS device sales are well ahead of projections and growing steadily every week.
Sales of HeatSticks are also growing sequentially but quite naturally do not yet reflect high rates of full conversion.
However as critical mass and product normalization build up over time we would expect these rates to be in line with our 2013 whole offer test results.
Based on our latest estimates iQOS awareness amongst adult smokers has reached approximately 34% and adult smoker profiles are on target.
Furthermore the iQOS flagship store concept is a success.
Our logistics chain is working well and product defect and return rates are much lower than we had anticipated.
In Milan where the selling channel is limited by design to a subset of the tobacconist universe and consumer communication is severely restricted.
iQOS device penetration has as expected lagged that of Nagoya.
However HeatSticks sales reflect a higher full conversion rate consistent with the characteristics of the market.
Based on our latest estimates iQOS awareness amongst adult smokers has reached approximately 16%.
Other indicators are in line with Nagoya.
In both markets Marlboro HeatSticks are subject to a lower excise tax rate than cigarettes.
Given the positive initial performance of iQOS we are confirming our plans to commence national expansion in Japan and Italy as well as pilot or national launches in additional markets later this year.
These launches will be supported by a new release of iQOS that incorporates feedback from the pilot market and features a variety of colors and textures to broaden the product’s appeal amongst adult smokers.
Our 2015 guidance includes incremental spending versus 2014 for the deployment of iQOS which is skewed towards the second half of the year.
We continued to reward our shareholders generously in 2014 despite a significant currency headwind that adversely impacted our free cash flow by $1.6 billion.
Last September our Board of Directors approved an increase of our dividend by a further 6.4% to $4 per share on an annualized basis.
This represents an increase of approximately 117% since the spin-off in 2008 and equates to a dividend yield of 5% based on last Friday’s closing share price.
In 2014 we paid $6 billion in total dividends to our shareholders and spent a further $3.8 billion to repurchase 45.2 million shares.
We are currently operating in a debt level corridor that is close to the maximum that would still allow us to maintain our single-A credit rating.
We remain committed to returning around 100% of our free cash flow to our shareholders and are taking appropriate measures to further reduce our working capital and keep capital expenditures flat despite the expansion of RRP.
At prevailing exchange rates the adverse currency impact on our 2015 net earnings would be approximately $1.7 billion which consequently will impact free cash flow.
Furthermore the currency environment remains extremely volatile.
In this context we are focused on managing our cash flow prudently and maintaining financial flexibility for business development opportunities.
Consequently we do not currently envisage any share repurchases in 2015 and this is reflected in our guidance.
However we will revisit the potential for such purchases as the year unfolds depending on the currency environment.
In conclusion we enter 2015 with confidence in our business outlook.
We delivered a solid currency-neutral performance in 2014 with adjusted diluted EPS growth above our guidance and successfully executed on a number of our key strategic initiatives that will generate attractive returns in the years to come.
We also made substantial progress in addressing market specific challenges.
Our business is supported by strong fundamentals and positive momentum.
Our leading brand portfolio is driving continued robust pricing and market share gains while our vigorous focus on our cost base notably through the optimization of our manufacturing footprint is enhancing operational efficiency.
These strong fundamentals are enhanced by our investment behind reduced-risk product.
We are excited by the prospects for iQOS and are pleased by its performance thus far.
For 2015 we are targeting currency-neutral annual growth excluding acquisitions of 4% to 6% for net revenues and 6% to 8% for adjusted OCI.
We are further targeting growth in adjusted diluted EPS of 8% to 10% excluding currency.
These targets are a clear reflection of the strong confidence that we have in both our business and the outlook for the year particularly given our incremental spending behind the deployment of iQOS.
Thank you.
Jacek and I will now be very happy to answer your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Hi Matt.
Hi.
Thanks.
Just two questions.
One I wanted to ask a bit more about Japan to better understand the inventory reduction there.
Is that a function of how retailers are temporarily managing levels across manufacturers? And consequently is that a timing issue that could reverse next year or was that just the lag result of some of the share losses you’ve seen in over 2013 and earlier this year? Okay.
To put this inventory movements in context we should all remind -- remember that we had to close better than to resume during last year.
And this is an $80 billion plus cigarette factory and consequently we had to prepare for the closure and also move production to a number of other factories.
We had to build in a particular case of Japan some safety stocks but not only in the case of Japan during the year.
And some of these inventories had to carry through the year end and will come back in 2015.
For the particular case of Japan however the objective for the year was to adjust inventory hurdles to both the market decline in 2014 and anticipate it for 2015 and in addition to that to our lower market share.
Okay.
And the vast majority clearly of these adjustments as we right sized will not come back.
And as I said because of maintaining some safety during the year we had to do this adjustment in the last quarter.
So that’s basically the whole story.
Okay.
If we are trying to put that in context I think your many investors will look at the flat adjusted operating profit performance this year.
And the expected acceleration back to 6 to 8 next year and view that as a fairly high hurdle.
If we are trying to look at the some of the moving pieces that will shift from year-to-year those inventory reductions in Japan over the course of the year that you sort of purposely of course corrected on how much of a drag was that on this year’s full year adjusted -- total company adjusted operating profit? I think the inventories in the last quarter I can’t quantify exactly I appreciate but probably 1 point.
Above the 1 point in our growth rate throughout the year.
1 point.
On adjusted basis what was our volume development in the fourth quarter I mean we read it André read it in the remarks.
So yes there was a drag clearly coming from this rescheduling of a supply chain and the subsequent inventory.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
The key positives for the year clearly is the improvement in the Philippines.
I think that was big I think issue we had in 2014.
We -- I think we stabilized in any case the share at Japan that was even bigger better than the inventories.
I think the business in Europe is doing fine.
So I think we fix the issues we had announced we need to fix in 2014.
And we’ve just behind that.
I think we can look with optimism into 2015 and that clearly explains the swing we have in terms of OCI growth.
Okay.
Thanks André.
And just Jacek perhaps with respect to the dividend I know this is a hypothetical question and you may just prefer not to address it.
But the payout ratio is obviously extremely high right now are there any guidelines you can provide on how you or the board would react if currency headwinds pushed the payout ratio even higher on a reported basis? Would the goal under those circumstances be to sustain some level of ongoing dividend growth even if that was only modest if you had let’s say 100% payout ratio? I can answer that question but I think André would be even more enthusiastic about answering this question.
Look we all understand there is huge currency volatility in 2015 and we have to be bit cautious.
And clearly dividend is more prerogative as you know very well.
But I understand where your question points to or points at and I see a no scenario under which we will reduce the dividend in 2015 okay even if we have to temporarily stay at a very high payout ratio.
Okay.
Okay.
Thank you both.
Our next question comes from the line of James Bushnell of Exane.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just a follow-up a little bit on the last point so you mentioned that the stock production in Japan took points of OCI growth in Q4.
I’m thinking about Asia because that’s clearly where you have the most weakness in the quarter.
I wondered if you could give us a feeling of the moving parts there? So was Australia the biggest drag on your profits? And I know there are some other things at the Philippines and you had some investments.
So I just wonder if you’d help us think through what the big drags are there and then that would help in terms of modeling going forward? Thanks.
Well I think you mentioned them.
Clearly Australia was a big drag compared to 2013.
And we had Japan overall as we said at the beginning of the year because we expect a lot of share at the time of the inventory adjustment clearly Japan would be another drag.
Now we’ve stabilized our share and quarter-to-quarter daily Japan on an underlying business basis is rather stable but where to make the timing of this inventory in Japan as I explained previously because we had to maintain certain safety stocks until the whole situation of Bergen op Zoom closure is resolved.
So I would say its Australia and clearly partially the Philippines.
Don’t forget that in the Philippines we increased prices ahead of main competitor there plus during the year we had to absorb partially excise tax.
Now the good news about the Philippines is that we had the price movement at the bottom of the market.
Prices per stick now of virtually any brand that comes are 2 or above our price gaps are reducing.
So the Philippines definitely are now going to be of any negativity and if any they will turn positive this year and I think that’s an excellent develop but we have to watch the situation that really carefully.
But so far so good I mean I feel much better now as I say six months ago and three months ago I can tell you.
Okay.
Thank you.
And I wonder if you could comment also on the how you see the outlook in Australia this year please? It is early day first of all in Australia the market decline is 10.6% but if we correct for inventory movements 2013 to ’14 the underlying is roughly [4.6 points over there] [ph].
And as we know this is entirely driven by the excise driven price increase that are pretty substantial in Australia.
I think we know about the issues in Australia is the growth of the low price that the deep discount segment and some competitive activities.
So we said that we have to put in place a strategy to extend the growth and I think our pricing strategy that is currently in pace is bring results.
We see a slight deceleration of the deep discount segment part of this is -- technical part of this is real.
But I would not say yes that we can declare that the deep discount segment has stabilized.
But sequentially looks like it doesn’t grow any more at the pace it used to be.
We also see some positive price movement at the bottom end of the market.
That’s good news.
Business will be confirmed because if there is price movement it’s good but we have to see how much of that is discounted back if that sticks this is also a positive development.
Overall I -- our estimate is that it’s unlikely that Australia will contribute positively to our OCI growth this year but definitely we don’t anticipate this to be the kind of marginal drag that we had in 2014 okay.
So it’s early days.
We will see how the next three four months unfold.
I don’t know if I answered your question.
Okay.
No.
It does.
That was great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Yeah.
Hi André and Jacek.
Hi.
Hi.
So maybe first on FX I guess just maybe given the really the heightened level of FX volatility can you talk about if there any plans to perhaps better align your revenue and cost structure in some of your key markets like Russia Japan and even your exposure to Swiss franc? I think we look at our cost structures constantly and we are focused on improving productivity and efficiency.
And I think that indication we gave that total cost excluding RRPs are going to grow by normal than 1%.
It’s a clear sign that we are very focused on these items.
Now every market is particular and Jacek will elaborate a bit more on this.
But as a matter of principle in many markets we have costs that are in local currency but we also have costs that are in euros or in dollars like tobacco leaf and certain materials.
And clearly rebalancing that cost structure is a bit more difficult.
But today I would say that in the vast majority of the market even in Russia we are not dollarized in terms of the cost basis we have and agreements we have with the parties other than the materials I explained.
So we see a reduction in the cost base as well as currencies devalued.
You are absolutely right.
Judy one thing which maybe will help looking at the same $0.80 EPS negative variance is the currency net in '14 the transaction impact negative transaction impact is just in a range of 10% of this total amount.
So most of the impact which we are incurring is coming from translations.
And to André’s point if I take the largest individual market on net profitability per market we take Indonesia Russia and we have a local cost this in a range of 65% to 75% in total cost.
So this is COGS in all discretionary marketing overhead etcetera spend.
So we have obviously there quite a significant portion of the natural hedges for the cost structures already building but as I said earlier the impact on us is mainly coming from a translation.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then just maybe looking at Russia and the industry volume was down 9.2% in 2014.
Your volume actually did a lot better down 3.5%.
I think you are commenting on 2015 industry being down in that 8% to 10% range.
So my first question related to that is your confidence in keeping your volume decline much more modest versus the industry and obviously that implies continued market share in that market? And then secondly given that the tax increases in 2015 in Russia is more modest.
Do you think that 8% to 10% volume decline is more representative just the macro pressures that you are experiencing in that market? And related to that just comment on how you are seeing sort of the pricing in that market and the consumer’s ability to absorb cigarette price increases in a pretty inflationary market? Okay.
We had very very good year in Russia in 2014 and I believe the portfolio fundamentals were plus the initiative should maintain a share growth momentum.
Now whether this can fully compensate volume or not this has to be seen okay.
The second important thing in Russia is a question of pricing.
We had about 22% pricing in 2014 and November and December prices were up roughly 13% if move way above average on our portfolio which of course will carry forward almost entirely in 2016.
You appreciate I cannot comment about further price increases for the year.
But the situation in Russia we all watch it very closely clearly a combination of the sanctions in the oil price have an impact on the economy.
We start seeing inflation and quite the unknown is for the year and this is not only particular to Philip Morris is what will happen with real incomes and salary okay.
So as you know we take pricing decision trying to balance our ways consumer affordability price gaps illicit trade and clearly margin improvement and we will always pursue the opportunity within that equation.
This is -- Russia is because of the microeconomic environment we have to assume that we will have a similar decline in 2015 that we had in 2014 despite as we rightly pointed out a lower excise tax okay.
So how this will unfold I don’t know.
I will be happiest man on earth if the decline is lower than what we perceived.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you both.
Our next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
Hi André.
Hi Bonnie.
I was hoping you could drill down a little further on the consumer behavior surrounding iQOS in your two test markets.
For instance could you give us a better sense of dual usage repeat purchase for example and then cannibalization rates maybe on Marlboro combustible or possibly any of your other brands? And then I would also like to hear from you what was the biggest positive surprise and the biggest negative surprise from your two tests.
Okay.
A lot of questions Bonnie.
First of all I think overall we are obviously positively surprise by their performance we had.
You appreciate I cannot disclose precise numbers for competitive reasons but clearly our device -- our iQOS device sales were well ahead of what we had initially projected and we are talking to thousands of units okay and we are not talking small quantities.
And they continue every week at a pace of 3% to 4% so this is not bad at all.
Regarding conversion rates it is a bit premature to measure this because as we are building a consumer base it takes time to make the assessment and takes time for people to fully convert.
The numbers we see in terms clearly of offtake or repeat purchase and mind you some of the consumers bought cartons at the beginning so it’s difficult to judge daily purchases of product.
We see that the rate of full conversion is clearly lagging behind the amount of units we sold.
But that’s natural and we expect it okay.
We also need to understand the situation in Japan that people still have the ability to smoke combustible products in very many venues.
So that’s natural that initially they use iQOS in situations like in warehouses or in office where they can’t use combustible products and mostly and slowly they will eventually convert more and more.
So I don’t have yet a sufficient database to know exactly what the conversion fully conversion versus occasional are.
We will have a better reading a couple of months but all I am saying is that the progress is pretty good and steady okay.
And we should not be totally impatient and think that everybody will convert in day one.
Even with the people I go around they took some time to convert.
And the awareness of the product is right.
I think the consumer profile is a target.
And as I said also in my remarks we are testing our supply chain returns rates are much lower than we thought although people have the option to return the products if they are not happy.
And we are learning also a lot in terms of marketing so that we can adjust our programs when we go national but overall it’s pretty good experience.
As expected and I said in my remarks in Milano because of less marketing freedoms and more difficult and it’s higher difficult to create awareness we are a bit behind Nagoya in terms of absolute amount of iQOS unit sold still in thousand but we have an apparently higher full conversion rate also because there are much more restrictions in Italy.
One particularity of Italy is that there is an initial I would say reluctance for people who have tried electronic cigarettes to try iQOS because they had a bad experience with electronic cigarettes but the ones who finally try and buy they are more committed because they see the difference.
But this is more qualitative and anecdotal at this stage than quantitative.
So again good progress.
We decided to go national and in few months we will have something that is really quantifiable and of course we will communicate this to you.
Okay.
That’s really helpful.
And then I just have a question or I guess probably a two-part question on your margins.
First your margins in the fourth quarter deteriorated quite a bit so could you drill down on the key drivers for this? And then in terms of '15 you mentioned your cost ex-RRP will increase 1%.
So just trying to understand what you’re hoping to achieve or accomplish with these higher costs and investments? Clearly you are making strategic investments in your business.
So how should we think about this in terms of the potential for accelerated growth in the future? Okay.
I am referring to you the 1% refers to the entire base okay.
We should not forget that we have the benefit also this year of the manufacturing footprint improvement of last year okay.
We also benefit with for moderating leaf prices that will continue into the future and growth price also that has been a big cost item in 2012 and '13 are also kind of stabilizing as we had good crops.
So from a manufacturing perspective clearly we are on the low end of the cost.
So that for the business we pursue also efficiency improvement programs but we never stop the investments that will grow the business further.
And for this year clearly we have some exciting programs on all the brands.
We continue with the deployment of 2.0 Marlboro.
We started with red.
We continue with Marlboro Gold and the other variance of the brands so that continues investment.
And we also essentially revamped and created new marketing campaigns for all the other key brands in the portfolio that we are also deploying and investing besides them.
But as I said in my remarks clearly that pays dividends.
So be reassured that we don’t stop investing behind the growth of the business and I think the market share performance has demonstrated that were the right thing to do.
For the rest as we said in -- and I said in previous intervention our long-term objective is to always contain cost between 1% to 3% ex-RRPs.
And depending on leaf prices I think we can even at least for the next two years remain at the lower end of this range.
So I think we are pretty happier about that.
And just to clarify on also RRPs there is incremental investment this year compared to last year’s incremental investment and the variance is slightly above the range we had last year or the north we had last year.
So it’s about 1 EPS point just the increment okay.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
That was helpful.
Appreciate it.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Growe of Stifel.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Hi.
Just had two questions for you if I could please.
The first one I’m just curious by André your view on I mean you talked about 2014 definite macro-economic effect on the business.
It would seem like that environment generally still in place in ’15? I guess related that I’m just curious if you could give a general outlook for volume? And also just curious you’re seeing any mix degradation across the business any trade down broadly that is rather than market by market is that having an effect on the business in ’15? Okay.
It’s difficult obviously to appreciate to predict total industry volume this year.
I would see and I will explain some of the caveat in the 2% to 3% range okay.
This is what I mentioned previously that mid-term I think would return to 1% to 2%.
First of all we have all this currency situation that it’s very difficult to predict what precise effect is going to have on the economies around the planet.
Second thing clearly we had to revise our estimate for the Russian market given the particular situation there.
We thought that 2015 would be the range 4% to 6% roughly.
Now we think that it will be at 8% to 10% of course that’s an assumption.
And the positive however can come from the Philippines because when I say 2% to 3% that assumes that no cigarettes return to the legal market in the Philippine.
Now hopefully given the development in the Philippines we’ll see some more volume coming back to the legal market and that can change clearly the overall equation.
So we may end up in the middle of that range I gave but that’s the best I can do at this stage.
Okay.
That’s fair enough.
Okay.
Now the overall economic outlook we all know the fundamentals okay.
Oil prices will be lower so that’s helps economy and consumer spending.
But in some places we’re going to see inflation following devaluation.
Not in many because as we all know its only one currency appreciating and all the others depreciating and remaining in relative parity to each other so they -- when they trade with each other we don’t have imported inflation.
So Russia is the one that comes to mind first as we discuss previously.
Overall I don’t see an acceleration I think overall of down trading at all on a global basis.
I think we said we stay on the same trends as we were in 2014 although slightly better okay.
We know the specifics of Australia.
We discussed it and so on.
Obviously there is a bit of geographic mix.
But if we look at total market declines in 2014 there is no substantial difference between OECD and non-OCED especially thanks to the recovery of the European Union.
I mean OECD decline roughly three point something percent and non-OECD 2.5% in 2015.
So I would say overall nothing worrisome at this stage.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
If I could just ask one question just for me to understand just some perspective on the lack of share repurchase obviously supporting the dividends and that’s very important to you.
I want to understand like throughout 2015 would you add this sort of this -- sort of at the margin you’re close to a debt level that would push your rating down? Is there any consideration where you would allow for the debt rating to go down? I’m just thinking about acquisitions for example.
So maybe not so much for share repurchase but from an acquisition standpoint would you or the Board consider the debt rating -- and violating the debt rating if you will? We always said and I maintain this.
We will not lose our rating for share repurchase purposes.
Now if we have a strategic reason that is a strategic acquisition or something then of course that can be considered.
Okay.
Absent that we will do everything we can to maintain our A rating.
Okay.
And I think we have to be prudent on how we manage the situation given the currency volatility we are in.
Having said that I want to stress that we are committed to share repurchases.
We’ll see how the situation unfolds.
And as soon as we can resume them we will.
We’ll not change our approach to that.
It is just a temporary situation that calls for caution given what happened with the currency.
Okay.
Sure.
Well that’s good perspective.
Thank you for your time.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Good afternoon.
So just -- I guess two things that we’ve touched on already.
If it came down to it and you had to decide between the dividend and the debt rating how do those fall relative to each other in terms of priority? I think I tried to clarify this.
First of all it’s rather a speculative situation and I said that I don’t see scenarios under which we will reduce our dividends unless we have third World War.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
So the dividend would come before -- if you had to choose between the two the debt rating might suffer before the dividend certainly.
That’s fair.
Yeah.
But if you do the mathematics that’s a consequential effect.
So yeah.
Okay André.
Thank you.
And then just looking at the EU your guidance for the operating income growth there does that include the savings from the Netherlands’ plant and how much -- can you quantify how much that is? Well that’s all baked.
Yes it includes obviously the savings from the footprint optimization and that’s included in the overall guidance and in the cost indications I gave.
So how much does that add from just the plant closure? A variety of reasons I cannot disclose that number.
I’m sorry.
Okay.
No problem.
And then just looking at Indonesia certainly the inflation from the fuel subsidy cuts late in the quarter had an impact on the category volumes there.
But with oil prices pulling back that’s reversed now.
Can you give any sense of what -- even though it’s early in this year have you seen the improvement in January or what does it look like so far as start to the year? It’s very early to judge the effect.
But that you said is correct.
I mean the subsidies were removed but oil prices are a bit low.
We didn’t say anything in the market generally that shows any change in the dynamic in this direction but it is only one month.
Okay.
So there is no other improvement yet but it’s just too early to really see.
Yeah.
We didn’t see any effect in January.
That’s all I can tell you.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from line of Vivien Azer of Cowen &amp; Company.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
In terms of your outlook for pricing for 2015 please with it being broadly in line with historical levels can you talk a little bit about the compensation of that pricing contribution because historically it’s been fairly well balanced over year across your geographies but clearly in 2014 it was decidedly weighted towards EEMA and Latin America? Thank you.
Yes.
In 2015 it is very balanced.
Okay.
And then the second ….
So it is actual that’s why we project and now we know the specificities of 2014 we had Italy that skewed clearly the European Union.
And we also had the Philippines absorption that skewed Asia and these are the two fundamentals.
Okay now.
Thank you.
That’s very clear.
As a follow-up on the EPS growth outlook of 8% to 10% on -- impressive that you guys are maintaining that absent at the buyback but as I think about the contribution then from not operating items of 200 basis point clearly you get the residual benefit of $3.8 billion of share repurchases that you did this year but can you comment Jacek at all about your outlook either for tax or for interest expense? On the tax we should stay broadly in that effective tax rate which we had in 2014.
So it looking 29 slightly below 29%.
And on the interest expenses you remember I hope that quite the portion of our debt portfolio you seen euros.
And so obviously it’s put a bit of the lower pressure or reduces the pressure coming from the interest to serve our bond portfolio.
So there is some benefit on us coming due to the overall lower interest rate lower interest rate environment and also for the composition of our debt portfolio due to the significant portion of the euro debt.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Erik Bloomquist of Berenberg.
Hi Erik.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Hello.
One of the markets that we haven’t really talked about today was Turkey and there we’ve seen a volume is improved a bit.
So I was wondering if you can comment on the outlook for the Turkish market is the down trading finished or does it look like it’s stable and does that then suggest that there is an opportunity for perhaps some profit growth and -- with the volume base remaining stable or have there been some regulatory moves there that suggest we may have another difficult year following a decent year in Turkey? Thank you.
Well volumes in Turkey are stable.
Illicit trade is stable.
Okay.
Increased a little bit which outlines that the underlying volume is even better.
I don’t see any change at this stage.
I mean excise taxes are in.
There was moderate increase in the specific and of the minimum tax.
So from a total market perspective I don’t see any particular change in the trend.
Now regarding the dynamics clearly there has been some down trading but shares have to -- seem to have stabilized now.
And we did very well in the premium segment particularly with parliament this type all the down trading.
So I think we are there for a decent year in Turkey going forward.
Thank you.
Our final question will come from the line of Owen Bennett of Nomura.
Good afternoon guys.
And just a couple of questions.
Firstly I was just hoping you could give an update on the rollout of Marlboro 2.0 in terms of how is it performing with regards to retaining current Marlboro smokers and also I guess crucially is attracting competitive smokers.
And also how many more markets are expected in 2015? And secondly just coming back to Russia pricing and we understand that you may have gotten a pricing benefit in 2014 from your stake in Megapolis? And could you confirm whether this is correct and if so is there likely to be some giveback from this benefit in 2015? Thanks very much.
The rollout of Marlboro.
Okay.
On Marlboro I think we are very pleased with our rollout.
We have 100% retention of existing smokers which is I think remarkable.
And we do see change both in profiles and other all attraction from competitive smokers and the share performance of the brand in the markets where we have rolled out is a clear testimony to the success of 2.0.
And we will continue rolling it out.
The plan is to be fully down with all the rollouts by early 2016 okay.
We are ready in 26 markets and growing by the day.
So which is through the planning and we are very happy with it.
Now Megapolis is not in the pricing but an item that is below the OCI line okay.
I’m sorry I’m asking the people that are more.
Okay.
Its income unconsolidated that’s where it is okay.
Okay.
We have received clearly a dividend so yes it will be somehow affected by the ruble et cetera temporarily but that’s currency clearly.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks Owen.
And that was our final question.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for any closing or additional remarks.
That concludes our call for today.
Thank you all for joining us.
If you have any follow-up question you can contact the Investor Relations team.
We’re currently here in New York.
And our next presentation will be at the Consumer Analyst Group of New York or CAGNY Conference on Wednesday February 18th.
Thank you again and have a nice day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
And have a wonderful day.
Good day and welcome to the Philip Morris International First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Philip Morris International management and the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Media representatives on the call will also be invited to ask questions at the conclusion of questions from the investment community.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Nick Rolli Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Welcome and thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we issued a press release containing detailed information on our 2015 first quarter results.
You may access the release on our website at www.pmi.com.
During our call today we’ll be talking about results for the first quarter of 2015 and comparing them to the same period in 2014 unless otherwise stated.
A glossary of terms data table showing adjustments to net revenues and OCI for currency and acquisitions asset impairment exit and other costs and adjustments to earnings per share or EPS as well as reconciliations to US GAAP measures are at the end of today’s webcast slides which are posted on our website.
Reduced risk products or RRPs is the term we use to refer to products with the potential to reduce individual risk and population harm in comparison to smoking combustible cigarettes.
Today’s remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results.
I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statements disclosure in today’s presentation and press release for a variety of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections or forward-looking statements.
It’s now my pleasure to introduce Jacek Olczak our Chief Financial Officer.
Jacek? Thank you Nick and welcome ladies and gentlemen.
I’m pleased to report that PMI is off to an excellent start in 2015 with robust fundamentals driving a strong business performance that is benefitting from our investments last year.
As announced in our earnings release this morning we’re raising our 2015 reported diluted EPS guidance at prevailing exchange rates by $0.05 to a range of $4.32 to $4.42.
This increase reflect a better than expected volume and share performance in the first quarter and an improved outlook for the balance of the year.
Our guidance continues to include approximately $1.15 per share of unfavorable currency at prevailing exchange rates.
Excluding the impact of currency our 2015 guidance represents a growth rate of 9% to 11% compared to our adjusted diluted EPS of $5.02 in 2014.
Although the total estimated unfavorable currency impact on our revised guidance remains unchanged versus our February guidance there has been a shift since then in its composition.
The positive impact of the appreciation of the Russian ruble and the depreciation of the Swiss franc has been offset by the unfavorable impact of a further strengthening of the US dollar versus most other currencies particularly the euro.
As exchange rates remain volatile we do not foresee any share repurchases in 2015 and this is reflected in today’s guidance.
Let me now take you through our first quarter results.
Organic cigarette volume grew by 1.4% driven by market share gains across all four regions and favorable inventory movements notably in Italy Spain and other markets supplied by manufacturing facilities in the EU region.
This growth was partly offset by lower cigarette industry volume principally in Japan Korea and Russia.
Excluding inventory movements organic cigarette volume declined by an estimated 0.5%.
Net revenues and adjusted OCI excluding currency and acquisitions were up by 9.1% and 16.3% respectively driven by strong pricing across all regions and favorable volume mix in the EU and EEMA regions.
Adjusted diluted EPS of $1.16 in the quarter grew by 23.5% excluding currency.
Our performance in the quarter was flattered by a favorable comparison versus the challenging first quarter of 2014.
As we have mentioned previously the second half of the year will include incremental spending primarily behind the deployment of iQOS.
Strong pricing was the key driver of our financial performance.
Our quarterly pricing variance reached $552 million and included a gain from inventories that we were able to build in Korea prior to the recent tax change.
Importantly our first quarter pricing was strong across all four regions.
We’re well positioned to achieve a full year pricing variance broadly in line with our historical annual average of approximately $1.8 billion.
Our results were supported by solid market share gains.
We performed very well in our top 30 OCI market increasing share by 1.2 percentage points to 38.1%.
Share growth was flat in 22 of these markets.
Our share gains were geographically broad-based and driven by a range of brands including Marlboro.
The brand share grew by 0.1 point in the EU 0.4 points in EEMA and 0.5 points in Latin America and Canada.
Turning now to our regions we continued to perform extremely well in EEMA which was the largest contributor to our strong currency neutral results in the quarter.
Regional market share increased by 0.7 points driven by the success of Parliament Marlboro and the L&amp;M.
We gained share in the key geographies of North Africa Russia and Saudi Arabia.
Excluding currency and acquisitions net revenues and adjusted OCI grew by 13.9% and 24.2% respectively.
This growth was driven by higher pricing notably in Russia Egypt and the Middle East and favorable volume mix in nearly all of our markets outside Eastern Europe.
In Russia our performance was outstanding.
We achieved double digit OCI growth excluding currency despite the 9.3% decline in cigarette industry volume.
Our strong brand portfolio helped drive market share gains and higher local currency unit margins through net pricing.
February quarter to date market share reached 27.7% an increase of 0.9 share points versus the same period last year.
Parliament grew 0.5 points which drove an increase in our premium segment share of 3.5%.
Low-price Bond Street grew by 0.9 points.
Despite significant excise tax driven price increases and the weakening of consumer purchasing power we have not observed any material shift in price segment trends.
However as I mentioned at the CAGNY Conference in February the macroeconomic environment in Russia continues to be fragile.
We recently announced a further increase in retail selling prices of 4 rubles per pack across the majority of our portfolio although this will not be reflected in the market until later this quarter.
In the EU region first quarter cigarette industry volume declined by 1.6% or an estimated 2.7% after adjusting for favorable trade inventory movements.
For the year we forecast cigarette industry decline of approximately 4% as we expect the recently implemented price increases to impact adult smoker demand over the balance of the year.
We maintained our regional cigarette share momentum in the first quarter with a gain of 0.4 points to 39.6%.
This increase reflected share growth in the five largest markets by cigarette industry volume as well as the positive performance of our three largest brands in the region Marlboro L&amp;M and Chesterfield which all gained share.
We achieved adjusted OCI growth in the EU region of 12.9% excluding currency and acquisitions driven by higher pricing across most markets as well as favorable volume mix notably in Southern Europe.
On the same basis we expect the region to be a positive contributor to PMI’s adjusted OCI growth this year.
I’ll now cover our Asia region beginning with Japan.
Cigarette industry volume declined by 13.9% in the first quarter due mainly to the impact of retail trade and consumer purchases last year in anticipation of the consumption tax-driven retail price increases effective April 1 2014.
After adjusting for these distortions the decline was an estimated 3.5%.
We forecast an industry decline for the year in the range of 2.5% to 3% as the trend should improve now that we have the April 2014 price increases.
Our market share increased by 0.1 point in the quarter.
However after adjusting for the aforementioned distortions it declined moderately due mainly to the timing of competitive brand launches.
We expect our full year share to benefit from the recent roll out of the Marlboro 2.0 Architecture across all three pillars and strong pipeline of innovation.
In the Philippines we’ve made further retail price increases at the low end of the market in the first quarter.
This has restored positive unit margins in the super-low price segment while price gaps have narrowed and driven Marlboro’s share growth.
We believe that the competitive environment is being improved by the recent introduction of tax spends.
Despite significant price increases in this important market smoking prevalence has remained stable.
The reduction in average daily consumption has been due mainly for adult smokers of brands at the low end of the market.
We attribute the decrease in large part to sticker shock following price increases for super-low priced brands of approximately 27% on average since October of last year.
We expect average daily consumption to largely recover as the year unfolds and adult smokers adjust to new price levels.
We’re pleased by our positive momentum in the first quarter and are optimistic about the improving OCI outlook in the Philippines.
In Indonesia first quarter cigarette industry volume grew by 5.9%.
Quarterly volume result in the market can be volatile and thus may not be representative of the annual trend.
For the year we forecast growth of approximately 2%.
Our market share grew by 0.8 points to 35.4% mainly due to strong performances in the growing machine-made kretek segment by Dji Sam Soe Magnum and Magnum Blue as well as our flagship in the segment Sampoerna A.
However our hand-rolled kretek brands remained under pressure as adult smokers continued to switch to machine-made products.
This marked our fourth consecutive quarter of sequential share growth and we’re well positioned for further gains.
We recently launched U Bold in the rapidly growing full flavor machine-made kretek segment where we’re currently underrepresented but are gaining share.
The Indonesian market offers exceptional long term prospects thanks to its growing adult population and a favorable economic environment.
We believe that we are best positioned within our industry to benefit from this trend.
In the Latin America and Canada region adjusted OCI grew by 35.1% excluding currency and acquisitions driven by pricing in Argentina Canada and Mexico.
This impressive OCI growth enabled the region to be an important contributor to PMI’s results despite its small relative base.
Our share in the region grew by 0.9 points to 38.3% driven mainly by Marlboro.
Argentina and Brazil recorded strong share performances with growth of 1.4 and 2.4 points respectively.
Turning now to our RRP portfolio the performance of our iQOS pilot launches is in line with or exceeds our expectation.
In both Nagoya and Milan sales of key stakes are growing sequentially.
More importantly the launches have provided valuable learnings that are being incorporated into our plans for future roll out and cover areas such as the flagship store concept the logistics chain after sales support channel strategy as well as consumer communication and engagement.
We remain on track to commence national expansion in Japan and Italy as well as pilot or national launches in additional markets later this year.
Let me also quickly highlight that we launched the e-vapor product Solaris last month in Spain.
We remain steadfast in our determination to offer an attractive dividend to our shareholders.
At the close last Friday our dividend yield was 5.1%.
This was significantly above that of our proxy peer group and 10-year US Treasury notes.
It was also well above the dividend yield of our main international tobacco competitors.
In conclusion we achieved strong currency neutral results in the first quarter driven by robust business fundamentals that are underpinned by our investments last year.
Our superior brand portfolio supported by a superb commercial organization is driving positive market share momentum and strong pricing.
We continue to focus vigorously on our cost and for 2015 anticipate the total company cost base increase excluding RRPs and currency of approximately 1%.
The iQOS pilot launches are performing well and we’re on track with our plans for national expansion and additional launches later this year.
We’re managing our cash flow prudently in order to provide a generous dividend and an attractive yield.
Despite our free cash flow decline in the first quarter due mainly to currency and temporary working capital movements we forecast 2015 free cash flow to be broadly in line with last year’s level.
Overall we’re off to an excellent start in 2015 and are optimistic of our business outlook.
We’re raising our 2015 reported diluted EPS guidance which on a currency neutral basis reflects a growth rate of 9% to 11% versus 2014 adjusted diluted EPS of $5.02.
Thank you.
And I’ll now be happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Chris Growe of Stifel.
Just I’d say two questions for you.
If I can ask the first one as you saw the better volume performance here in the first quarter even excluding the inventory movements it was much better than I expected.
Do you think this is going to hold for the year? Do you have an updated forecast for the industry overall? Are there areas of certain regions where you’re seeing this improvement maybe more than others and just curious how much that can hold through the year? As we said in the remarks that we expect the EU to be above the 4%.
There are very strong volumes in the EU in the first quarter.
Obviously as you’ve noticed also in our remarks we said there were some movements in – held by some inventory movements associated with the last quarter closure of the factory in Holland which is the main supplier but still excluding for those movements I think we had a strong start.
I think in a view of the pricing which we’re taking in EU I think is prudent at this stage to hold that for a cusp of 4% but we see – as with volume momentum in a number of markets very importantly Southern Europe but also other markets.
And the rest of the world I think general for the full year the outlook is that the industry volume should be better than last year.
It’s difficult very precisely to quantify now but we could feel that volumes in the EEMA region Asia Latin America there’s more of the structural improvement going forward.
So I think we remain optimistic about the volume outlook for the full year for the industry and obviously for us.
And just a follow on question in relation to your earnings guidance for the year you had a much stronger first quarter performance than I think a lot of us had modeled and I’m sure what you’ve modeled as well.
So I’m just curious with the increase in guidance for the year being less than the first quarter earnings be I’m just wondering if there’s an incremental level of reinvestment is there some conservatism built in just how you look at the rest of the year and some of the areas you could use this flexibility to reinvest? I think the investment plan in terms of cost which we plan to spend for this year I mean the pricing of tax rate as per the plan so I don’t think at this stage that we need to go back and reinvest.
The brands and the commercial organization is well invested the proper resources are allocated behind iQOS that’s obviously going to be a second part of the year end of Q3 more Q4 type of a spend.
So this will impact obviously our results in the quarters.
As I said yes the first quarter was somehow hedged by the inventory and as I mentioned Korea pricing so this boosted the better performance.
But even if I were to exclude this inventory movements and the Korea one-off pricing we would have a very strong double digit growth in the quarter.
We don’t see at this stage that we need to go and to change our investment plan.
As you noticed we reconfirmed that we expect the total cost base ex RRP to stay in the range of 1% ex currency obviously.
But we’re pretty confident that we will fund it.
Your next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
My first question is your Q1 it was clearly very strong but I guess I was hoping you could maybe summarize what are the key items that give you the confidence to raise your full year guidance so early in the year? I think the confidence is coming – I mean the one-offs which took place in Q1 I mean they were all well estimated by us in the original guidance.
I think this underlying momentum continuing from the last year which gives you more confidence that you can raise the guidance.
So even as I said before even exclude Korea and some inventory distortion the underlying business in the EU but also in EEMA very much as I give you that support in your thinking in your estimates for the full year which prompted us to increase the guidance by $0.05.
Nothing what we have been working on very hard last year since that this was a temporary type of a solution I mean the permanent improvements in Philippines we hold the share in Japan despite some blips in the quarter EU is continuously delivering.
So I mean the things that we spend our time and our efforts in the organization last year properly so I think we build a solid base for this year.
This is what it is.
And then in terms of Marlboro your volume has rebounded and were strong in the quarter so I was hoping you could drill down a little more on this especially in light of your Marlboro 2.0 roll out? And then I’d like to hear from you how sustainable you think this is.
Marlboro as I said it on a number of occasions I think CAGNY at the CAGE most recently Marlboro is in a good shape.
I mean I think the way we improve the equity of the brand over the last two or so years helped by the commercial [indiscernible] Marlboro Gold now going to Marlboro 2.0 Architecture I mean all these components I think the things together and Marlboro is responding in a number of geographies it’s not just one or two places where we see the Marlboro uptake.
The Marlboro 2.0 is just at this stage roll out in about 48 markets and we foresee that by the year end we should be in about 100 a bit more than 100 markets.
So that’s an effort which we’ll continue.
So I think Marlboro is receiving continued support in terms of Marlboro 2.0 plus market by market with a pipeline of innovations which is going to hit also later the year the market.
So I’m confident about the Marlboro performance this year.
And then just my final question is on your RRP portfolios first on iQOS I was hoping you could talk further about some of the learnings you mentioned.
And then second on Solaris given the vapor slowdown why was the timing right to roll out Solaris? Maybe I’ll start with Solaris I think I mentioned this before.
The reason we went with Solaris into the market first I think the Altria product is compared to what you have available in the market a very good product.
And more importantly for us is also to go and test and learn how they’re selling the cigarettes how a commercial organization should be adjusted how you handle the trade the supply chain the communication with consumers et cetera.
I think before you start engaging larger geographies it’s just simply smart to go and test the waters in a more contained geographies in this case Spain and apply this learning which should greatly help us with the resource management going forward.
Now coming back to the iQOS look as I said whatever we see – obviously there are differences between Milan and Nagoya and the differences are driven by the distribution spread as much outlets handling iQOS in Milan than in Nagoya there is a big difference in the communication possibilities marketing possibilities it’s much more open and broader reach which we can get in Japan.
Obviously this is reflected with their awareness levels to start which are about twice as high in Nagoya than in Milan.
But if I drill it down to the number of consumers who have already purchased iQOS and the acceptance levels how many have already adopted iQOS as a permanent product as a main product how many still are in between using about half of an iQOS half of a combustible cigarette and obviously there is a growth which using iQOS very rarely occasionally and still stays with a combustible cigarette this results are at least as far if not better which [indiscernible].
So if you go back to our test results which I think we showed with investors during the Investor Day last year we’re showing well above the 30% or above 35% adoption I mean the full adoption of iQOS today among those who have purchased it.
And as I indicated the uptake volume of the HeatSticks is in a continuous growth.
I can’t remember how many weeks essentially since the launch we can observe the sequential growth in HeatSticks.
But obviously adoption takes time this is a new technology it’s not something which the consumers are so broadly familiar so it’s a lot of work to be done.
But we’re very enthusiastic and optimistic based on the result which we see in this market.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
First I just want to clarify two things you said earlier you mentioned that if you were to exclude the Korea pricing benefit and the inventory timing issues in the EU you still would have had double digit constant currency growth that’s in EPS not operating income correct? Yeah that’s correct.
This is on EPS.
And the volume impact should be to whatever extent there is a reversal of that that should be concentrated in the second quarter? From the volumes actually as much as they’re related to the typical timing differences between Q1 and Q2 which is mainly associated with the timing of the Easter holiday in various geographies I think most of the volume are locked in Q1 and you will not have that we shouldn’t have an impact of those volumes going into Q2.
And then just two market-specific questions.
On Asia first could you just give us an update on market in competitive conditions in Australia? I know you called out positive share but what are you seeing in terms of the industry volume reaction to the latest excise tax increases and the pricing headwinds that you faced in the market there? Due to the excise tax increase in the industry we increased the prices so there was a net price increase.
Maybe it’s too early to call it but I think what we can see in Australia at least for the first two months of current trading conditions is that the dynamics of the segment growth mainly the discount segment have somehow slowed down.
I wouldn’t call it a success but if I compare sequential quarter development last year versus if I take the Q3 very much Q4 and the beginning of the year you could see some stabilization or signs of stabilizations in terms of growth of the discount segment.
So that’s obviously very helpful.
I think this is a result of maybe a different pricing maybe per discounting strategies adopted by the players.
So yes I think we’re growing our share share in the quarter was somehow flattered by the comps because we had the opening of the last year but I think that Australia for 2015 I mean it clearly is less of the size of the drag which we had last year.
So I think we slowly month by month we are moving there in the right direction.
One last question just on Japan this is lots of areas of strength in the quarter this is one where performance still seems a bit soft.
I was surprised to see your volume still down double digits since you didn’t seemingly have the same inventory benefit last year that your competitors did.
How does the double digit decline compare to how you see consumption on your brands during the quarter and is it just the roll out of 2.0 that gives you confidence that things improved through the year? As far as inventory I think our shipments in the first quarter was just better than the total market.
I think you could see these distortions which we had in Q1 last year somehow clearing – was cleared in Q1 of this year.
Now frankly speaking the marginal share movement in Japan knowing that the market is very sensitive on a short term basis like quarterly basis the pipelining of the product with the competition for the new product introductions I wouldn’t pay that much attention.
We’re watching obviously the situation closely but I think Japan has enough of the initiatives including Marlboro 2.0 but also a pipeline of our new products to the market that we should see the share coming stronger in other part of the year.
So I personally we don’t think that this quarterly reading from Japan is a red slot which we should we worried about.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
I guess a few questions on Russia number one just in terms of clarification on the inventory movement is it your expectation that that was really – and I think you maybe talked about this on the context of the total company impact but in 2Q does the inventory movement in Q1 help come out in 2Q for Russia? No I think the inventory adjustments in Russia I think they just corrected the inventories at the distributor level which is more corresponding to the outlook for the total market and more importantly for the share which we have in Russia.
So maybe there are some smaller distortions of this shipment but I don’t think anything of the magnitude which we should expect nor this was a payback from the last year.
I think it’s just the normal course of the business however this was more connected with that recovering of recouping the inventories to the right level.
And then just maybe underlying trend in Russia just what you’re seeing in terms of the elasticity to the price increases that happened in December the fact that you’re taking another pricing does that imply that the impact on volume has been more favorable? And in the context of just competitive environment obviously you’re gaining a lot of market share what do you anticipate in terms of how the competitive dynamics play out in that market? Look I think so far if you look at the current performance of the business and the way we look at the industry I think the market holds very well.
I mean obviously you have a high 9% sort of the volume declines for the total industry but this has to be read in comparisons to the very high pricing the industry is taking or we’re taking.
So the elasticity is so far okay.
We have this disconnect in terms of the macros reading from Russia but as I mentioned we looked very carefully into the price segments that will augment over the very recent period.
And you essentially have to split in total to start concluding that you have acceleration of growth of the bottom of the market or down trading et cetera.
Not at this stage but as I said Russia is something which presumably will remain on the watch list for the full year.
Having our share growth and pricing we grew our share for Parliament so clearly this is not just share in the premium or above premium segment other brands obviously contributed as well.
We just announced another price increase.
As you know Russia on an ex currency looks very good.
Obviously currency has put a dent on the results that’s very clear.
And inflation is high and I think this was the reason why we decided to go now with the price.
But so far elasticity is working as per the expectations we’re talking 3.4 type elasticity if you take the price increases versus the market decline.
And then just lastly on the yen hedging can you just update on where you are today versus the last guidance you’ve given? Judy we usually don’t update what we do with regards to the hedging during a year.
I can just maybe help you that if I take a $1.15 impact on our results with the previous guidance I’ll confirm today in the $1.15 yen just moves in that guidance by $0.01.
I said a $0.13 impact last guidance and I have now $0.14 impact this guidance.
So this is not the yen clearly I think the hedge in place they’re all in that same but also I have to admit volatility on the yen is lower than we used to have it at the beginning of the period.
Ruble which I listed in my remarks improved a lot because the ruble is just $0.13 now in my guidance and it used to be $0.48 so this is a big improvement.
Swiss francs was negative and turned positive in the guidance to $0.10.
And there is a whole list of other currencies obviously euro plays a role but the yen was – yen played just a one role.
Ruble was $0.35 in the guidance 30% of the entire guidance is the major contributor to that balancing and us holding the $1.15 guidance.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lavery of CLSA.
I just wanted to come back to Korea.
You talked about the benefit from the inventory I assume by that you mean that you were able to pull inventory ahead of January 1 so that you could sell product in this quarter with last year’s lower tax is that correct? That’s correct.
And how long does that benefit last? Is the shelf life typically it’s close to six months maybe will that benefit continue in 2Q or have you exhausted that inventory yet? It’s very much a function of how long your inventories you manage to be obviously there are some limitations some restrictions in the market how much you can be so we don’t have a free ride on this one.
But I think mostly that benefit at least in our case should be attributed to the Q1 mostly there might be some slip over going to Q2 but it’s mostly a Q1 event.
And then just looking at your guidance obviously you’re much more confident and it is early how much volumes are far less predictable but how much of the pricing that you're expecting that's reflected in your guidance have you already realized or been able to take? Because we’re a bit deeper in the year we usually at this year don’t give a number how much the pricing we have realized but you might remember and initial guidance in February when we were announcing full year results we have said that for the current 2015 year we have 70% pricing realization.
And there were a number of markets which we have taken the pricing since then.
So clearly we are higher than 70%.
So you can't say by how much? No.
For competitive reasons et cetera I can’t.
Okay that's fine.
Then just on Egypt you called out higher manufacturing costs that came from the new business structure but you also talked about favorable impacts from the new business structure as well.
Can you just give a little summary of the puts and takes there and how that nets out? That’s the impact which we are carrying from Q2 last year – actually from mid of Q1 last year.
So this is a quarter where we’re lapping that thing so with very marginally but still had an impact in Q1.
It doesn’t impact your bottom line very much other than organic growth in the business it just impacts that your revenues are slightly up and your costs are slightly up versus how we were reporting reflecting our business structure in 2013.
So we’re comparing 100% apples to apples.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer of Cowen and Company.
My first question has to do with EU profitability.
You guys have previously indicated that you expect to generate local currency profit growth in the EU given the strong start to the year and I recognize you have the offset later on on the national launch of iQOS but can you give us a better sense of how strongly profits might inflect in the EU? Clearly we’ve had a good start of the year so that – obviously the different pace is going to continue for the Q2 Q3 because there was an underlying strength coming from top line.
I think initially for the year I think we said that we expect EU to contribute in the low single digit.
I think I’m definitely confident that they can achieve this one.
So let me make the statement at this stage.
In terms of the rollout of iQOS later on in the year you noted the potential for other pilots and/or national launches.
Can you give us a little bit more color on what you're looking for in order to make a determination around that? Is it an accommodative regulatory landscape from a tax perspective is it supply chain just any other color around that would be helpful? Clearly we’re looking into the market which give us the volume and margin opportunity so for obvious reasons I can’t share with you today the details.
But as I said it’s the consumer base it’s our position in the market it’s the margin structure so these are the key components which we’re looking into.
We have said from the very beginning that initially we will go to the market where the margins will be rather accretive to the rest of our business.
And my last question any comment or update on Platform 2 please? Platform 2 we started [indiscernible] in Spain – sorry Platform 2 – Solaris Platform 2 goes on plan.
So it’s nothing really to update versus what we have said before.
Your final question comes from the line of Bill Marshall of Barclays Capital.
I just had one quick question for you.
So I believe on earlier calls you guys have kind of left the door open for share repurchases this year.
It sounds like from your comments earlier that's probably off the table for 2015.
So I was just wondering in the context of your very strong quarter what kind of milestones could you point to that would make you feel more comfortable about buying back stock as we look forward maybe past 2015 into 2016.
Look we have not updated unfortunately we’re not in a position to update the currency guidance and this is the component or element which impact our reported numbers and cash flow very much okay.
So buyback or suspension of the buyback for this year is the outcome of that.
I mean we’ll have to see the improvement in the currency outlook is very much [indiscernible] versus all others to be able to go back to that share buyback.
So yes obviously the guidance increase – the outlook for the year increase helps but this is still I have to admit overshadowed by the strong negative currency which we are confronted this year.
So we need to wait what’s going to happen with the currencies in order to take back the discussion on the – come back to the discussion on buyback.
At this time there are no further questions.
I’ll now return the call to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
That concludes our call for today.
If you do have follow-up questions the Investor Relations team will be here in Switzerland and available.
Thank you again and have a nice day.
Thank you for participating in the Philip Morris International First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Philip Morris International’s Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Philip Morris International management and the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Media representatives on the call will also be invited to ask questions at the conclusion of questions from the investment community.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Nick Rolli Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Welcome and thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we issued a press release containing detailed information on our 2015 second quarter results.
You may access the release on our Web site at www.pmi.com.
During our call today we will be talking about results for the second quarter of 2015 and comparing them to the same periods in 2014 unless otherwise stated.A glossary of terms data tables showing adjustments to net revenues and OCI for currency and acquisitions asset impairment exit and other costs free cash flow calculations and adjustments to earnings per share or EPS as well as reconciliations to U.S.
GAAP measures are at the end of today’s webcast slides which are posted on our Web site.Reduced risk products or RRPs is the term we use to refer to products with the potential to reduce individual risk and population harm in comparison to smoking combustible cigarettes.
Today’s remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results.
I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statements disclosure in today’s presentation and press release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections or forward-looking statements.
It’s now my pleasure to introduce Jacek Olczak our Chief Financial Officer.
Jacek? Thank you Nick.
And welcome ladies and gentlemen.
Our excellent start to the year was reinforced in the second quarter.
Organic cigarette volume was strong declining by a modest 1.4% due to lower cigarette industry volume across all regions partly offset by market share gains in Asia EEMA and Latin America and Canada region.
On a June year-to-date basis our organic cigarette volume was essentially flat or down by approximately 1% excluding inventory movements.
For 2015 we forecast an organic cigarette volume decline in the range of 1% to 1.5%.
Net revenues and adjusted OCI in the quarter were up by 4.5% and 6.1% respectively excluding currency and acquisitions.
This growth was driven by strong pricing across all regions partially offset by lower volume largely in the Asia and EU regions.
Adjusted diluted EPS excluding currency grew by 9.2% to $1.54.
June year-to-date adjusted diluted EPS grew by 15.8% excluding currency.
This growth benefited from a gain in Korea related to inventories built ahead of the excise tax increase effective January 2015.
As announced in our earnings release this morning we are reaffirming our 2015 reported diluted EPS guidance at prevailing exchange rates to be in a range of $4.32 to $4.42.
Our guidance includes a full year unfavorable currency impact of approximately $1.15 per share at prevailing exchange rates.
Excluding currency our 2015 guidance continues to represent a growth rate of 9% to 11% compared to our adjusted diluted EPS of $5.02 in 2014.
Giving our better than anticipated volume and market share performance we now expect to be towards the upper-end of this range.
As previously communicated our guidance includes incremental investment during the second half of the year to support the deployment of iQOS in Japan Italy and additional 2015 launch markets.
Our guidance now also includes accelerated spending in the fourth quarter behind planned iQOS launches in 2016 as well as incremental marketing investment in the second half to further reinforce the favorable momentum of our combustible business.
As discussed in today’s press release our guidance excludes the potential impact of the motion that is currently before the Québec court of appeal related to a judgment involving the two-class actions against our Canadian affiliate Rothmans Benson &amp; Hedges.
Should the court of appeal deny the motion PMI expects to incur an after-tax charge of approximately $0.09 per share in the second quarter which would have a corresponding impact on our 2015 reported diluted EPS guidance.
Apparently RBH’s appeal on the merit of the case is pending before the appeal in court.
Although the total estimated unfavorable currency impact on our current guidance remains unchanged versus our April guidance there has been a shift since then in its composition.
As you can see on this chart the positive impact of the euro has been offset notably by the unfavorable impact of the Russian ruble.
Strong pricing was the key driver of our financial performance in the second quarter we recorded a variance of $540 million reflecting higher pricing across all four regions.
We increased the retail prices during the quarter in key markets such as Argentina Germany Indonesia and Russia.
Our June year-to-date pricing variance of $1.1 billion leaves us well positioned to achieve a full year pricing broadly in line with our historical annual average of approximately $1.8 billion.
As a reminder our first up pricing volumes includes the gain in Korea that I discussed earlier.
Our results in the quarter were underpinned by continuous market share gains.
Share in our top-30 OCI markets grew by 0.1 points to 37.5% with our share up or essentially flat in 17 of this market.
Our share performance was supported by the strength of our leading brand portfolio which continues to benefit from the rollout of our new commercial approach.
The integration of marketing and sales expertise increased consumer focus and field salesforce empowerment are proving to be a competitive advantage.
Importantly Marlboro was a key contributor to our share growth.
The brand’s international share excluding China in the U.S.
increased by 0.3 points to 9.5% this performance was broad-based with share up in all four regions.
Marlboro share benefited from the federal rollout of the new 2.0 architecture which was introduced in some 20 additional markets during the quarter predominantly in the EEMA region.
By year-end we expect to have rollout Marlboro 2.0 in approximately 100 markets.
I will now provide an update on selected geographies beginning with the EU region.
Cigarette industry volume in the second quarter declined by 3% or 2.3% excluding trade inventory movements.
Consequently we now expect a decline of 3% to 3.5% for the full year versus our previous forecast of approximately 4%.
Our new forecast reflect the improving microeconomic conditions and moderation in the level of illicit trade led out switching to fine cut products and the lower prevalence of e-vapor products.
The moderation the level of illicit trade in the quarter is consistent with the findings of an annual study published by KPMG in May.
It’s concluded that the consumption of counterfeit and contraband products declined in 2014 across most EU markets with France and the UK being notable exceptions.
While our cigarette market share for the EU region was stable at 40.4% in the second quarter our top-three brands Marlboro L&amp;M and Chesterfield all gained share.
Marlboro cigarette share was up in four of the top six largest markets by industry volume with particularly strong growth in Germany and Spain.
However Marlboro share declined in Italy following the brand’s move above the €5 per pack retail price point during the first quarter.
Adjusted OCI grew by 4.9% in the quarter excluding currency and acquisitions driven by strong pricing which more than offset our cigarette volume decline due to a lower total market.
Turning now to Russia.
The decline in cigarette industry volume accelerated to 4.2% in the quarter resulting in a June year-to-date decrease of 6.5%.
We now expect a full year decline towards the lower end of our 8% to 10% forecast range.
However the economic environment remains fragile and we are witnessing some signs of down-tradings to the low price segment.
Our excellent performance in this important market continues in the quarter.
We recorded a May quarter-to-date share gain of 0.8 points to reach 27.6% driven notably by above premium parliament as well as low price Bond Street and super-low mix the above which also benefited from wider distribution in the Eastern part of the council.
Our cigarette volume grew by 5.3% in the quarter.
The combination of the volume increase and higher unit margins driven by significant retail price increases resulted in strong double-digit OCI growth in the quarter excluding currency.
I will now cover selected markets in our Asia region beginning with Indonesia.
Cigarette industry volume declined by 4.6% in the quarter following strong first quarter growth of 6%.
On a June year-to-date prices industry volume increased by 0.4%.
The shift in adult smoker’s preferences from hand-rolls to machine-made kretek cigarette continued in the second quarter with the expansion of the overall machine-made kretek segment driven by the accelerated share growth of full-flavor products.
The segment share of lighter-tasting products declined slightly.
Our market share increased by 0.5 points to 35.2 despite our relatively high exposure to the declining hand-rolled kretek segment.
The share growth was led by Dji Sam Soe Magnum which helped drive a 2.5 point increase in our share of the machine-made full-flavor kretek segment and Sampoerna A our leading machine-made lighter-tasting kretek brand.
During the quarter we further realigned our production from hand-rolls to machine-made kretek cigarette.
While this had an adverse impact on the Asia region's cost in the quarter it should provide an operational foundation better suited for long-term growth.
Over the mid to long-term we expect cigarette industry volume to increase within a range of 1% to 3% annually driven by the growing adult population and rising income levels.
We forecast growth towards the lower end of this range in 2015 due to the recent softening of the economic environment.
As announced last month Sampoerna will explore options to comply with the Indonesian Stock Exchange's mandatory requirement of 7.5% minimum public shareholding by January 30 2016.
This includes potential capital market transactions.
In Japan cigarette industry volume increased by 11% in the quarter due to the timing of retail trade inventory movements related to the April 2014 tax driven price increases.
However industry volume declined by 1.7% excluding this distortion and by 2.6% on a June year-to-date basis consistent with our forecast of for a full year decline of 2.5% to 3%.
Our market share declined by 1 point in the quarter to 25.4% so it was down by a more modest 0.4 points after adjusting for inventory movements.
We continue to invest behind our brand and for 2015 expect our share to be broadly in line with last year's level.
We’re supporting the Marlboro 2.0 architecture which we began rolling out at the end of March and also investing behind our strong pipeline of innovation as highlighted by the recent launch of the two large variance in the rapidly growing new taste menthol segment.
In the Philippines the competitive environment continues to improve during the quarter benefiting from the introduction of tax terms.
Smoking prevalence remained stable in the quarter however average daily consumption declined due to higher retail prices.
Although it did not deteriorate on a sequential basis compared to the first quarter.
This indicates that adult smokers have largely adjusted to higher prices at the bottom of the market.
While our market share declined due to higher estimated duty paid volume by our principle local competitor Marlboro's share increased by 2.1 points to 20.2%.
The brand benefited from improved price cost which helped drive the volume increase of 18.1%.
As a result of the improved competitive environment and the excellent performance of Marlboro we’re increasingly optimistic about the OCI outlook for the Philippines and are expecting strong growth this year excluding currency.
Turning now to our RRP portfolio we will commence the national expansion of iQOS in Japan this September.
Building on the success of our pilot launch in Nagoya iQOS will be rollout in few regions at the price of ¥9 980 or approximately $80.
The rollout will feature an upgraded version of our iQOS in new colors and textures to broaden its appeal among adult smokers.
Our expansion plan for Italy also remains on-track with additional city launches commencing later this year.
I am also extremely pleased to announce the launch of iQOS in Switzerland this August.
The launch will focus on five major cities with retail distribution in approximately 250 outlets by the end of October.
The iQOS kit will feature the upgraded version of iQOS while the Marlboro HeatSticks will be available in regular smooth and menthol variants.
On our e-commerce platform the kit will have a retail price of CHF 80 or approximately $85 and HeatSticks will return with a premium positioning at CHF 8 per pack of 20.
We generated free cash flow of $2.9 billion in the first half of the year.
This was in line with our free cash flow for the first half of 2014 despite an adverse currency impact of $1.6 billion.
Our resilient cash flow performance was supported by prudent cash flow management particularly with regard to working capital and capital expenditures.
For 2015 we forecast free cash flow to be broadly in line with last year’s level despite the significant currency headwind.
In conclusion our excellent start to the year was reinforced in the second quarter with a modest organic cigarette volume decline and a strong currency neutral financial result driven by robust business fundamentals.
In the combustible business our superior brand portfolio supported by a superb commercial organization is driving strong pricing and continued market share gains.
Meanwhile our iQOS pilot launches are performing well we’re on-track with further rollouts in Japan and Italy and will soon be launching the product in Switzerland.
We remain committed to returning 100% of our free cash flow to shareholders.
As of last Friday’s market close our dividend yield of 4.9% was significantly above that of our tobacco peer growth and a 10 year U.S.
treasury notes.
On a currency neutral basis our 2015 EPS guidance reflects the growth rate of 9% to 11% versus 2014 adjusted diluted EPS of $5.02.
Given our better than anticipated performance we now expect to be towards the upper-end of this range.
Thank you.
And now we’ll be happy to answer your questions.
Thank you.
We will now conduct the question-and-answer portion of the conference.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
So first I guess if we think about your guidance for the full year you’re thinking the FX neutral earnings growth is coming in at the upper-end of the range.
Obviously the first half has been pretty strong.
So it sounds like maybe there is some incremental spending that you kind of called out around the iQOS as well as the combustibles.
So is there a way to kind of quantify some of that incremental spending beyond what you had anticipated at the beginning of the year? And then what is sort of prompting some of that incremental spending both on the iQOS side and then on the combustible side? Look Judy clearly as I said in my remarks there is incremental spending by accelerating some 2016 launches of iQOS towards the beginning of the year and we have to ramp-up the infrastructure already and preparations already this year.
As we increasing the investment behind the combustible business but as you have noticed I mean there we have a very strong momentum share growth momentum in a number of markets behind Marlboro and other international brands so we think it’s just the right time to further support the performance of this brand.
And frankly speaking we slowly start looking more already into the 2016 we’ve had things that will have a very strong 2016 but we are trying to maintain that momentum going forward.
I will -- you have to excuse me but I will rather not quantify how much is the next job but clearly will be above our guidance absent this additional investment.
And then just in the second quarter the margins in Asia came in a little bit softer and I think underlying FX neutral earnings or operating income growth was down a little bit which I guess it’s a little bit surprising given the strong volume performance that you had in Japan.
So I know you sited the Indonesia distribution expenses.
Can you just talk about kind of the puts and takes in terms of the second quarter Asia margins? And is the Indonesia cost increases sort of one-time for the quarter or is this sort of a continuation into the next few quarters? I think in Indonesia and specifically we had an extra expense in Q2 connecting with reallocating of the capacity between our hand-rolled facilities and the machine-made facilities.
So this is more of the sort of the one timer but it’s clearly hits the entire Asia regions when it comes to the profit margins and overall profitability.
I think for the full year Asia clearly will have better much better performance that we had last year but last year Asia had a pretty I could say a lower lousy performance okay.
But Asia is hitting towards their needs to -- is approaching their needs to long-term growth target.
I mean they may miss it by a bit but I think Asia overall is looking good going forward for the full year.
And then my last question just on the Sampoerna decision that I guess you’re looking at in terms of some of the capital market transaction potentially.
Can you just help us how you’re thinking about some of that decision? And to the extent that there is additional cash flow that comes in with that transaction would you think about that giving it some cushion to raise the dividends and start resuming the share buyback? Well first we need to make a decision which other new -- we actually - we’re finally pursue in Indonesia but -- so I was parked for a moment the question how will a distributor eventual proceed from the transaction if the transactions happened I will just close that question park that questions for the later.
As you know I mean there is on the one hand the requirements to have public flow of over 7.5% we’re clearly below that 7.5% on the other hand you have a increased out rolls which are not necessary the most effective versus somehow in between these two parameters we’ll have to make our decision.
But I will just -- we have to wait there some time until we conclude what is the best option for the Company and the shareholders.
Our next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer with Cowen and Company.
My first question has to do with your outlook on pricing it clearly it’s been incredibly robust in the first half of the year and you noted the benefit of Korea.
But as I look to the back half given how much pricing you’ve already realized.
Are there any other callouts in terms of you guys ending up realizing pricing roughly in line with your historical average because right now it would look like you would be tracking ahead of that? We might come slightly above the historical average therefore the language which we use is they will brought in line so don’t haunt by $20 million or $30 million.
But I think we are looking into the strong pricing for this year but overall pricing environment with the tax and the volumes total industry volume I think are playing on our side.
So yes we’re looking for the strong pricing for this year.
The second question has to do with Russia while it’s encouraging to hear that you think volumes will come in at kind of the better end of the range is offset being the down-trading it feels to me like the down-trading has been at play for a while given the outsized volume gains that you’ve seen for your lower priced brands.
So could you elaborate on that comment a little bit? Are you seeing down-trading accelerating is that coincident with the second price increase having hit any other color I think would be helpful? I think that’s not until the Q1 I remember the same questions would been asked at that time I said that we don’t really observe much of an down-trading growth or down-trading at all in Russia I mean as we are currently into Q2 yes there was a price increase which was hitting the market in between I mean yes you could see that the market somehow consolidate in middle I mean the super low price segments are losing the low price it’s gaining the premium is slightly losing.
So yes you have a down-trading.
And we’ve always had the Russia on the watch out list due to the underlying macros and the overall sentiment et cetera.
Good news is that the Russian volumes I mean it seems that we are confronted with a bit better elasticities that we price elasticities which we initially assumed.
Hence our revision that more likely or most likely Russia will end the year with about 8% or closer to 8% industry volume decline versus the initial range of 8% to 10%.
The volumes for the year-to-date are pretty strong taking into consideration overall market situations and the pricing taken.
So yes I mean a down-trading is where we start seeing.
Now it’s not really a big surprise because Russia operates with a comfort and a matured market with a pretty wide price drops.
And the gap between a premium and the low price cigarettes are much higher than would you for example seen in the Western or in the European Union.
So yes there is some room for the consumers to at least temporarily mitigate some of the micro headwinds by hopefully temporary going to the lower price segment.
But remember Russia is one of the markets when you see the down-trading if micro is a bit of reoccur situations improve we could see the up trading.
Good news for us is that I think portfolio wise and I think this was supported by the performance of our -- two or three brands but bumps -- bumps through next to the bottom of the market and premium model parliament or a cost premium parliament which all three brands are gaining share.
So portfolio wise we’re okay we still have to continue watching how Russia unfolds in terms of dynamics between the price segments.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
I just had two questions first within EEMA results were obviously still quite good on an overall basis given all the volatility in the region but I’ve noticed the price mix in OCI growth for both but it’s below trend.
Typically we’ve seen them growing at a double-digit rate.
So what factors could you call out that have contributed to the more moderate rate of growth in the quarter? Well I think the pricing was coming stronger and as planned I think you will slightly presumably would have an impact of some sort of a mix I mean partially driven by Russia okay so this is what it is but overall I think EEMA is and Russia in particular we are expecting very strong performance this year for the full year both Russia and the EEMA.
I mean a few other locations the upper geographies in EEMA which have a strong performance North Africa I mean a few others so I think we feel positive on the outlook for this year for instance.
And second question just on iQOS in Switzerland.
Can you talk a little bit more about the determination of the price point for the HeatSticks themselves and just at a broader level what have your leanings’ been from Italy and Japan on relative price points.
How does the retail price weighed francs compared to comparable pack of Marlboro cigarettes? Do we have any clarity on the tax treatment? Marlboro HeatStick for the pack of 20 is slightly below the Marlboro I think that it's 8 fracs 50 we decided to go in this market with Marlboro with 8 we have had a tax ratification and as in Japan in Italy iQOS HeatSticks are not classified as a cigarette product and hence will enjoy the lower taxation than the combustible cigarettes.
Our next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog with Wells Fargo.
I guess I was hoping you could drill down a little more on our Marlboro Architecture since you have seen such a positive impacts from Marlboro 2.0 in several markets and then could you give us an idea which particular markets do you feel there could be even more upside potential? Look it’s rolling as we speak as Marlboro 2.0 in the additional market as I said by year-end we should see the mark of about 100 markets so that essentially must covers most of our important geographies and as well we see and I think if you look at the performance of Marlboro in Germany I think it's clearly is an impact of a Marlboro 2.0 I think I would say that performance in Germany actually goes above our expectations and if I look at the demographics how we manage to change the demographic behind the Marlboro so it’s not just the market share current but also how the demographic if goes well from the future of Marlboro I mean Germany would be one of the market that we can see the further upside.
But in general in essentially all geographies Marlboro the new support I mean all sorts of connected with the commercial approach et cetera I mean the year the result.
And that’s a good point and you mentioned Germany because clearly it's done very well so how realistic do you think it would be to assume the performance that you have seen there could be replicated in some of the other key markets? Well it is being replicated I mean it might be to the -- not to that extent as in Germany but overall if I look at the changing demographics behind the Marlboro the LA 24 share the values of Marlboro of how Marlboro resonates more on the dynamic innovative sort of a brand.
I mean this qualitative assessment of the Marlboro is by far better in essentially all geographies when we launch brand.
I can't find in memory a market which wouldn't a big one.
Our market share performance in a current period from place-to-place may also being targeted by the given the price situations I would call out for example Mexico right? Where yes there is a bit of a down-trading in the market there are some pricing pressures at the bottom of the market so you might have a temporary sort of the brand share erosion but what we really focus on is to making sure that the underlying demographics behind the brands are getting better because this really once the pricing is unlocked also I mean that really will support or should support the further growth of the brand.
So even in the market where Marlboro has a little bit of a share pressure within a premium segment Marlboro actually is the -- is performing very strong and is gaining share.
And then Jacek you guys announced the extension of your strategic framework with Altria Group.
So what do you think the biggest benefit will be for instance could it be the acceleration of the pace that you are bringing new products to market and/or increasing the number of new products? And then maybe could you give us an idea of how much your investment is behind reduced risks products broadly could increase as a result of this extended framework? Because as of existing as you remember agreement with Altria on the current generation of a cigarette product and this agreement essentially will focus both companies will take them both companies focus behind the new generation of a cigarette focus I think Altria is bringing to the face of the table quite a knowledge on the existing products and other critical components I mean there we have our own research our own discoveries our own fruits of the investments in through R&amp;D.
And I think it make a good sense for both companies from the resource management propose the resources together and they work for jointly on the new generation.
I think logically this should result in a acceleration of a development of a new generation cigarettes product and obviously in above us both companies could be in their respective markets faster in addressing the consumer needs.
I wouldn’t you will appreciate I wouldn’t say how much in terms of a financial investment is required for obvious reasons.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lavery with CLSA.
Regardless of what the Indonesia transaction does or doesn’t look like could you give a little sense of how you think about resuming buybacks and if there is any metrics you are looking for or if you would want to see a turn in currency for maybe even a little bit of time if you are eager to try to get back to it or if you want to be more cautious and have some cushion on the balance sheet.
What’s the way that you frame that internally? Look if we are looking into sort of a sustainable share buyback program with where we have to go back to what took us out of the share buyback program with currency and that’s clearly the there’s a big headwind which we get from the currency and we have made it very clear that in underlying business performance whether you look at the top-line bottom-line et cetera and the cash flow generation it’s coming very seized very strong I mean the currency is essentially sending our credit metrics at the edge of our current credit rating.
And therefore we had to suspend it.
So it’s the currency which is the main culprit behind the absence of the share buyback program this year.
So we have to see the improvement on the currency front from this side.
And then just on iQOS you’ve completed some clinical studies recently.
On the national rollouts in Japan and Italy and then also in the launch in Switzerland is there any health claim associated with those that you are making on the product? Not a health claim but I think we are moving slowly into making the reduced exposure claims and this is also the result of the six short-term clinical studies which have been completed as per plan and the study results they showed a substantial reduction in a relevant bio-micros of exposure in adult consumers who switched to iQOS.
And this is compared obviously to adult consumers who continued to smoke conventional cigarette.
We have the result of the studies and I believe part of our communications in these locations and other locations which we have not disclosed yet will have a component of the reduced exposure claim.
So just to clarify may be my word choice was a little offering health claim but you are making a reduced-risk or reduced exposure to claim associated with it? But they are two different things reduced-risk and the reduced exposure.
There’s reduced exposure.
Based on the knowledge which we have today based on the results of the clinical studies et cetera I think we are getting into positions that we can make a reduced exposure claim reduce risk claim is I think it’s more of the story of the 2016 and depends on the regulatory framework in the countries in which we will be launching iQOS.
And then just on Australia.
Could you give an update on what the pricing environment is looking like there and if pricing from the latest round is sticking or if there’s any more promotional intensity and I guess specifically to in the last quarter’s call you said it was looking like less of a drag if even maybe a drag at all this year.
Is that still your view or could you give any update on how you are thinking about that market? I mean we had the pricing in the Q beginning of the Q2 I mean it somehow sticks not maybe the talk about the perfections you would like to see but maybe life is not perfect so we have to live with what we have.
As clearly Australia is much less if at all the drag this year and that it used for us last year and I think that’s also the outlook for the full year.
We’ll have now the August-September tax price hopefully price change as well.
And we’ll see who this unfolds.
You have somehow the down trading in the market.
It’s a little bit slightly better but I mean it’s not really something which I think at this stage would put us into a jeopardy in terms of our total PMI performance for the full year.
But it’s vastly better than the last year.
But we would like to grow the profitability in this market rather than just the comp basis be better than the last year.
And just one quick last one in the Philippines have you seen any impact from the launch of Chesterfield and L&amp;M is that becoming a meaningful part of that portfolio or is it still early? Well it is still early.
I think the early results are good but that’s a bit of the longer runway clearly building a portfolio to reflect the current market reality dynamics et cetera.
And if I can just extrapolate and I think I have a good reason to extrapolate of a Chesterfield from other international markets in which we activate that brand should do properly its designed job in the Philippines market Philippines markets as well.
But it’s too early at this stage to start looking.
Sales Marlboro what is very important growth very strong either share and the volumes and that’s great because this is what it’s a good reflection of the trend of the Marlboro and obviously reaction to the lower price is up.
Fortune is not doing that bad it is quite a lot of initiatives about our second brand which we have the fortune and I think this brand also has a great future going forward.
And I think Chesterfield and L&amp;M are the brands which will maybe initially complement the portfolio and maybe one day they are going to play a more significant role in the overall portfolio.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
I just had two questions for you if I could it will follow-on to one of Michael’s questions there.
In relation to there is a comment about returning 100% of cash flow to investors.
So I am just curious you’ve had some pretty strong operating cash flow performance this year some working capital improvements.
As you -- is it a two times of EBITDA target you’re kind of you are targeting here and therefore incremental cash flow if there is better working capital control is that just going towards debt reduction in the short run like we saw this quarter? No I mean with the credit rating which we should get it is about 2.5 right because this is what is allowed for our credit rating if the cash if we deliver the cash flow for this year broadly with line with the last year last year was about 6.5 slightly above the $6.5 billion that’s the nice cushion to have versus the dividend commitment which currently stands at about $6.1 billion-$6.2 billion so this is how we’re looking at the thing we want to have a nice cushion about a current historical dividend at the current level.
One other question if I could please on the facility to make you reduced-risk products to Italy.
Is that completed in the third quarter is that going to be like fully operational? And then should we expect around Q3 to hear about more markets in which you’re going to begin launching that product? I think the structures et cetera are completed or about to be completed and we’re now moving to the installings and equipment to the machinery so I think it all goes as per plan as we said the capacity from that unit in addition to the training center which is producing the initial 5 billion capacity should be available as of 2016 so very shortly we should have an access to the incremental capacity coming from this effort.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Marshall with Barclays.
Just first I was wondering if you could just expand a little bit on the decision to dissolve the JV with Swedish Match.
And looking at that I would imagine that overtime your emphasis around that portfolio is nascent and smokers would come down is that an ability to rotate some of those resources back towards your existing business? Well I mean the decision the mutual decision about dissolving the joint venture with Swedish Match was based on the fact that yes there is some potential for some product in some geographies as we made the progress.
But I guess by standards or our standards the progress under both components the progress was slow so we just decided that maybe it’s better that both companies will just pursue the on growth opportunities and this is how we reached the decision of dissolving.
Swedish Match sorry the joint venture with Swedish Match didn’t have a material impact on our financial so I wouldn’t count on any material reallocation of resources from Swedish Match joint venture to PMI.
And then just also kind of more of a housekeeping item you laid out pretty detailed foreign currency impact in each of the individual currencies in the past you’ve talked a little bit about hedging particularly on the yen from a transaction perspective.
I was curious if you give us an update on any currencies that you were hedged on like the yen and at what levels and for what duration? Well we have about slightly -- well we have above 60% for this year but I’d like to remind everyone that our financial policies that we constantly look at the 12 18 months ahead.
So it’s fair to assume that we already start hedging our cash flows from a yen cash flows for 2016 when we’ll be giving the as was always the practiced tradition the guidance for the 2016 in February we’re going to update on the number what is our current hedge ratio for the 2016 but as I said we already looking into 2016.
And yes that is essential.
Our next question comes from the line of James Bushnell with Exane.
I had a couple of questions my first one was just a follow-up on the snooze question just interested in whether we should reach anything into peer mind’s philosophy to towards these do you see it as part of the reduced risk complex and therefore well worth exploring in a number of places or is it more do you see it as a niche for a few select markets? How are you thinking about that product at the moment? I think from a reduced-to-reduced perspective I mean as most theories has a potential from a consumer acceptance perspective based on our experience in a few geographies when the joint venture has launched the products and then commercialized the product that is things that this is with the longer shot that we were thinking okay this is how I would look at this.
And my second question was about Poland I think volumes are down on the market level about 5% which might not sound that great but I think it’s the least bad read you have had there for a while.
And I just wondered if there is anything changing there for the better and if you could just generally describe the dynamics that would be useful? No Poland is one of the countries which we should still observe like in many other European Union geographies but there are improved situations with regards to illicit trade that’s in Poland between East and the West so it always is more difficult to maybe keep these things under control there but I know that the government is focused on addressing the illicit trade that is also addresses the budgetary needs.
Our volumes you rightly noticed is getting better but compared to the many other markets in the European Union I still would like to see the Polish volumes total market volumes getting better.
Our share is great I mean our brands are performing great so on a business side we are in I think a great shape in Poland total our market still I think has a there room to improve but we’ll have to see when it's going to happen.
And just one last question on iQOS how is the retention rate of consumers who try iQOS progressing in Japan and Italy? And also just as a very small technical point did I hear you right that as Marlboro cigarette priced to 8.50 in Switzerland and the HeatSticks are just below that or did I get that the wrong way around? Yes it is correct there is slightly price below Marlboro in Switzerland.
In terms of -- with regards to the retention rate they are broadly the same as we had them in Q1 but frankly speaking we've spent more of the Q2 time in a test market to changing if you like some components of our marketing needs et cetera in preparations of the national rollout.
But as I said already in the Q1 there is about a one-third of those who have really purchased iQOS device about the one-third is predominantly using the iQOS and there was a significant drop in the consumer who is sampling a inner transition.
One key follow-up what is the difference in the new iQOS device versus the old ones? It is better look better functionality better feel and touch we addressed some of the feedbacks we received from a consumer with regards to the electronics and operations of an electronics so we are being able to fit it into the new device.
It's really a new better iQOS.
Our next question comes from the line of Erik Bloomquist with Berenberg.
Your comment with respect to the contributions to European volume is interesting and is there a way you could break apart for us the contributions of the reduction in illicit and in e-vapor.
So in aggregate are those worth about 1% to European Union volumes or is there pricing offsetting some of that benefit so the reduction in those is actually a bit greater? Look there is a pricing in Europe with ahead of the higher than the pricing we used to have in a first half of the last year but -- so yes there is some impact on our volume on the other hand I think the underlying micros in many European markets our consumer sentiment is somehow helping us with the better elasticities that you will -- would you remember from a 2012-2013 period.
I think -- and there is a not a exact mark how much is the coming from a illicit trade because you will have to go from market-to-market I think a contribution from illicit trade to the German volume presumably higher contribution of illicit trade in some other places might be different.
E-vapor product they didn't contributed that much in Germany because this was not really any sizable sort of a category but I think they are more helping France or Spain or other geographies.
One thing which we also have to remember we observed a very serious slowdown in the dynamics of the fine cut or our tobacco product which is also the outcome of a parked price and I guess also the better consumer sort of a sentiment.
And you remember this is the category which used to grow say in 2012-2013 in the Europe in the churn of a 6% to 7% per annum and this volumes now are growing I think around 1% mark.
So you could see the drastic change in the dynamics which obviously was pushing or pulling the consumers from the manufactured cigarettes to the fine cut product much stronger in the past than we see now.
So I mean I can't give you the number how much each of this on the total -- of this drivers on a total EU basis contributed I think we’ll have to go market-by-market and put some weight whereas there is more of the weight where is less of the weight which helps the total market performance.
But look let's enjoy the good total market performance we know what are the drivers we've been looking that finally one day all these things which were the significant headwind for us will unwind and will start converting into tailwinds and hope this is a more sustainable trend for this.
And then also related to the European vapor markets does the imposition of the tobacco products directive does that also then create a bit of a headwind for that particular market and it is really something that probably vantages the Marlboro iQOS and HeatStick system given that you are already able to bring the product to already have a set regulatory environment where is the TPD in position will arguably make things more difficult for vapor.
Is that something that you could expand on please? Well I mean as everything depends obviously how quickly this going to be transposed into the member state legislation and that’s the process which started there are some members state which already advanced there are some members state which give before the parliamentary et cetera discussion.
I mean the deadline as we know is May 2016 we will be in a position to say how individual members think what sort of a framework they create above the novel tobacco product and the e-cigarette.
As you remember in a TPD there was a distinction between above fair group of both categories then we will see how that’s going to play out.
And then lastly on the TPD with is set to Philip Morris’ litigation against it.
Can you give us an update on where things stand and when we may next get the next set of news fill on that what the progress is in terms of challenging TPD2? Well it’s not much really of a development which happened right? I mean the JC case in Ireland was retained in Ireland which I think is a good news because it drove the other result in a clash of two similarly like cases at the ECJ level.
I think it’s fair to assume that the ECJ the thing is that most important part of a challenge against the directive that ECJ which will reach the European Court of Justice sorry will reach a conclusion before the due date for the transpose implementation of the directive which I said deadline is May 2016.
That’s essential.
Our next question comes from the line of Owen Bennett with Nomura.
And just a couple of questions please.
Firstly just on LatAm and over then the pricing leverage.
And I am just wondering what was driving the very strong margins there and how sustainable these are into the rest of the year? And then secondly just on some industry volumes.
And could you give an update on guidance for South Korea for the year now? And also possibly if you could comment on how industry volumes are trending in Australia especially with the recent price increases? Thank you.
So on LAC I think we have had a strong pricing coming from Argentina Brazil Mexico Canada.
So essentially for all our key geographies there we enjoyed the strong pricing.
I think it should continue.
So I mean LAC last year and this year they are really performing very strongly I think they had a good momentum.
As I mentioned earlier answering other questions I mean there is a bit of a share pressure in Mexico.
But on the other hand Mexican total industry volumes are doing better.
So overall into the financials we are looking pretty okay.
On South Korea I mean it looks that our initial guidance for the market total market for the year 20%-25% declined it is not lower to the closer to the 20% I mean it’s still significant but let’s remember you would remember how big the price increase was.
Cutting overall is going better or slightly better than expected in our share is up.
So I think yes I mean we have the price increase behind us.
I mean let’s see how this is going to unfold.
But so far it unfolds pretty strongly.
And on Australia now much really as I mentioned earlier which was which would happen there I mean if the prices went up there is some continue some sort of discounting.
The down-trading is there may be to some extent at the lower level.
Australian total market volume is obviously distorted year-on-year due to the price changes.
And I think on the year-to-date basis Australia is 0.7 actually up total market size.
But it doesn’t mean that the market grows.
I think it’s a little bit of a distortion there.
Our final question comes from the line of Adam Spielman with Citi.
Most of my questions have been asked.
So it’s really a question following up a couple that have already been asked in terms of the question on EEMA pricing you said that and it was certainly below the pricing was below my expectations I didn’t reply to that you said whether that’ll be some mix factor.
But obviously you get pricing per se excluding mix and I was just wondering if for any geographies and you had good pricing in Russia we know.
So over any geographies where pricing perhaps has gone backwards or has been disappointing within EU? Not really.
And just one thing to clarify always when we talk about the pricing is the pricing variance and when we report the volume mix we put the mix with the volume the… Okay.
Yes but yes I mean there was some negative mix for EEMA and I think largely driven by Russia.
On the other hand very encouraging and I haven’t seen this result for the long time.
We have zero mix impact in EU okay.
So I mean that’s on the total PMI basis I mean the mix is not that much of a major issue.
Obviously we had a mix in Australia due to the down-trading but is on a few isolated geographies.
Okay so that’s very clear.
And just coming on to EU obviously the volume decline has returned to its historical or nearly to its historic average.
I was just wondering if you think elasticity is about where it was before or whether we have some ways to go before we return to what it used to be.
I think many markets have returned to what we would call the standout part of the cover called product elasticity is minus 0.3 minus 0.5 and I see more and more markets which are squarely fitting into this range even maybe some of that mean in the lower end of this range so in minus 0.3 territory so that’s good.
And just one final question following up a question the Bonnie asked clearly your market share is improving and a lot of that has to do with 2.0 but there is also the new commercial approach.
And I was wondering really two questions related to that.
Is it possible to say at all which is more important than the new brand architecture of a new commercial approach it is obviously a bit of both but are they equally important? And the second question related to that is are there any important geographies where you haven’t rolled out the new commercial approach yet? I will start with the second one important geographies in which we are in the middle of the rollout of the commercial approach is Indonesia from the last OCI market.
Coming to how much you could lump with attribute to the commercial approach and how much the 2.0 output like that Marlboro 2.0 is the concept it’s a great concept it’s a great design it’s a great product line ups it’s a great support materials and at the end of the day you need to have advanced skills organizations to properly implement this in a market so that’s your commercial approach.
So this comes both together I mean it’s a great idea lousy implementations no result you have idea great salesforce I mean who cares no impact so I think it need to have always the optimum the right mix of more than I get we are at this stage now.
And just apart from Indonesia are there any other markets you’d point to that perhaps don’t currently have big OCI contributions but perhaps you could hope to gain share and that you haven’t rolled it out and this would be my final question.
From the -- no there are markets which are -- no from a significant market I guess it would be Indonesia which pops up to my mind now.
I mean in many other markets we are well advance maybe there are some territories in some places but we also don’t necessarily aim at the covering 100% of the any given market territory I mean it has to has a economic sense and then in writing the details cost benefit analysis and no I think Indonesia would still stay on the list I would think about Indonesia.
And that was our final question.
I now like to turn the floor back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
That concludes our call today.
Thank you for joining us.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact the Investor Relations team and we are currently in Switzerland today.
Thank you again and have a wonderful day.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Phillip Morris International Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Phillip Morris International Management and the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
I will now turn the call over to Nick Rolli Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Welcome and thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we issued a press release containing detailed information on our 2015 third quarter results.
You may access the release on our website at www.pmi.com.
During our call today we will be talking about results for the third quarter of 2015 and comparing them to the same period in 2014 unless otherwise stated.
A glossary of terms adjustments and other calculations as well as reconciliations to US GAAP measures are at the end of today’s webcast slides which are posted on our website.
Reduced risk products or RRPs is the term we use to refer the products with the potential to reduce individual risk and population harm in comparison to smoking combustible cigarettes.
Today’s remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results.
I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statements disclosure in today’s presentation and press release for review the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections or forward-looking statements.
My pleasure to introduce Jacek Olczak our Chief Financial Officer.
Thank you Nick and welcome ladies and gentlemen.
Our strong performance in the first half of the year continued in the third quarter.
Organic cigarette volume declined by a modest 1.5% reflecting global cigarette industry volume primarily in the Asia region partly offset by market share gains mainly in the EEMA region and Latin America and Canada region.
The cigarette volumes of Marlboro and L&amp;M our two largest brands increased by 2.1% and 9.3% respectively in the quarter.
On a September year-to-date basis our organic cigarette volume declined by 0.6% or by approximately 1.1% excluding estimated inventory movement.
For 2015 we continue to forecast an organic cigarette volume decline in the range of 1% to 1.5%.
Net revenues and adjusted OCI in the quarter grew by 5.9% and 9.3% respectively excluding currency.
This growth was driven by strong pricing across all the regions partly offset by the impact of lower volume mainly in the Asia region.
Adjusted diluted EPS excluding currency grew by 15.8% to $1.61.
Our strong currency neutral result in the third quarter has derived September year-to-date adjusted diluted EPS growth of 15.8% to $4.62 on the same basis.
As previously disclosed our fourth quarter results will be impacted by incremental investments to support the expansion of iQOS including accelerated spending behind planned launches in 2015 and 2016 and to further reinforce the favorable momentum of our cigarette brand portfolio.
As announced in our earnings release this morning we are revising a narrowing our 2015 reported diluted EPS guidance to a range of $4.35 to $4.40 at prevailing exchange rate to reflect a slightly more unfavorable currency impact largely offset by an improved business outlook driven mainly by the EU and EEMA regions.
At prevailing exchange rate our guidance now includes a full year unfavorable currency impact of approximately $1.22 per share versus $1.15 in our previous guidance.
Excluding currency our 2015 guidance represents a growth rate of 11% to 12% compared to adjusted diluted EPS of $5.02 in 2014.
This growth rate is above 9% to 11% range that we provided in July.
The evolution of the impact of exchange rates in our 2015 report the diluted EPS guidance is presented on this slide.
While exchange rates have been volatile throughout the year the negative impact on our guidance has been relatively stable with the slight increase in our latest guidance that have been mainly by weakening of the Russian Ruble versus the U.S.
dollar.
Strong pricing remains the key driver of our financial performance.
In the third quarter we recorded a variance of $522 million reflecting higher pricing across all four regions.
We increase the retail prices during the quarter in key markets such as Argentina Indonesia and Russia.
September year-to-date pricing variance of $1.6 billion puts on track to achieve full year pricing above our historical annual average of approximately $1.8 billion.
Our results in the third quarter were underpinned by continuous market share gains.
International market share excluding China and the U.S.
increase by 0.3 points to 29.2% with strong growth in EEMA and Latin America and Canada region.
Marlboro was a key driver of this market share growth increasing by 0.4 points to 9.9%.
The grand grew share in all of our regions as it continuous to ban it from rollout of architecture 2.0 which is now available in 84 markets largely.
Importantly our share in the top 30 PMI is OCI markets grew by 0.5 points to 37.8% with share up or essentially flat in 18 of this market.
I'll now provide an update on selected geographies beginning with the EU region.
Excluding trade inventory movements estimated cigarette industry volume decline by 0.1% in the third quarter following declines of 2.7% and 2.3 in the first and second quarters respectively.
We actually did the strong third quarter performance mainly to improving economic conditions and consumer sentiment and I'll forecast a full year 2015 decline of around 2%.
Our cigarette markets in the EU region decline slightly in the third quarter due mainly to Italy.
September year-to-date our cigarettes share increased by 0.1 point to 39.9%.
Cigarette share in the quarter was supported by the growth of our two largest brands in the region.
Share for Marlboro increased by 0.2 points to 19.3% driven by strong performances in France and Spain.
While share of L&amp;M increased by 0.1 point to 7.1%.
The combination of our strong pricing the more favorable cigarette industry volume trend and our stable overall cigarette market share resulted in third quarter and September year-to-date adjusted OCI growth of 7.4% and 8.1% respectively excluding currency and acquisitions.
Turning now to Russia in our EEMA region estimated cigarette industry volumes declined by 4.6% in the third quarter.
Giving the resilience of the September year-to-date cigarette industry volume trends we are revising our full year 2015 forecast to a decline of around 7%.
Our market share performance in Russia remained strong.
Our good quarter-to-date show increase by 1.3 points to 28.7% driven by low price bond street and super low max.
Both brands continued to benefit from wider distribution particularly in the Eastern part of the country.
Higher pricing drove double-digit OCI growth excluding currency in the third quarter.
In our gross we announced the further retail selling price increase of 5 rubles per pack across the majority of our portfolio which will be increasingly reflected at retail as the fourth quarter progresses.
Estimated cigarette industry volume in Turkey grew by 11.8% in the third quarter fueling September year-to-date growth of 9.6%.
We attribute the strong growth to a significant reduction in real estate trade which is estimated to be at its lowest level in the past six years.
Our August quarter-to-date market share increased by one point to 44.1%.
This marked the first year-over-year quarterly increase since the third quarter of 2013 and was driven by L&amp;M Marlboro and Parliament.
Favorable volume mix and pricing drove double-digit OCI growth excluding currency in the third quarter.
Moving to Asia region while our market show Indonesia was flat in the third quarter it increased by 0.4 points to 35.2% September year-to-date.
We are pleased by the strength of Sampoerna which has continued its growth trend despite its main volume having crossed the critical CHF15 000 per pack price point.
Dji Sam Soe also continues to gain share thanks mainly to its machine made magnum volumes.
Estimated cigarette industry volume declined by 1.1% in September year-to-date period.
We attribute the decline primarily through a softening in the economic environment and now we expect flat full year cigarette industry volume in 2015.
However we continue to expect an increase of 1% to 3% annually over the mid to long-term driven by growth in the adult population and rising income levels.
Last week Sampoerna announced the approval by shareholders of its plan for a rights issue at an exercise price of CHF77 000 per share.
The transactions will be one of the largest stock offerings in the past year across the whole of Southeast Asia and showcases the strength of our business in Indonesia.
The total net proceeds for Sampoerna from the right issue will amount to approximately $1.4 billion after completion of the transaction 7.5% of Sampoerna issued and outstanding shares will be publicly owned in compliance of the Indonesia stock exchanges minimum public shareholding requirement that takes effect from January 30 2016.
Clearly this injection of cash will enhance our financial flexibility and we will determine how best to use it in the long-term interest of our shareholders while keeping a very watchful eye on currency movement.
In the near-term the proceeds will be used by Sampoerna for working capital purposes.
As you know beginning in 2015 excise payment terms in Indonesia has been shortened for the last two months of the year which will obviously put pressure on our year end working capital.
In Japan estimated cigarette industry volume declined by 1.5% in the third quarter resulting in a decrease of 2.2% for the September year-to-date period.
For 2015 we continue to forecast the full year decline in the range of 2.5% to 3%.
Our share in the quarter was down by 0.6 points to 25.3% due mainly to the strength and timing of competitors offerings in the new differentiated menthol taste segment.
We are committed to improving our share in this important market and are further investing behind our pipeline of innovations.
The underlying business fundamentals in the Philippines continue to improve though show trends based on the total tax based cigarette market remained distorted due to higher estimated tax declarations by our principal local competitors.
Based on Nielsen retail audit data which we believe provide additional insight into our performance in the current environment our August quarter-to-date market share increased by 1.4 points to 73.7% driven by Marlboro and our leading low price brand fortune.
This positive share performance was driven by two main factors first reduced gaps since the beginning of the year following price increases for super low price brands at the bottom of the market have led to adult smoker upgrading to Marlboro across all three pillars and fortune.
And second we have strengthened our portfolio for a range of investments in brand initiatives including new launches and innovative line extension.
This is evidenced by the strong performance of Marlboro’s capsule and highly mentholated variant as well as the success of our fortune capsule variant which we launched in July this year.
Favorable volume mix driven by a 17.8% increase in Marlboro’s shipment volume resulted in improved profitability in the third quarter.
The excise tax driven cigarette industry volume decline in Korea continues to moderate sequentially resulting in a decline of approximately 17% September year-to-date excluding estimated inventory movements.
And we now expect a similar decline for the full year.
Our market share in Korea increased by 1.8 points in the third quarter to 20.4% driven by the strong performance of Marlboro.
Shifting to our Reduced-Risk products portfolio I will now provide a brief update on our commercializations and clinical assessment of iQOS.
During the third quarter there were number of important commercial developments.
We launched iQOS in Switzerland in August with an initial focus on five major cities and began the national expansion of iQOS in Japan in September.
We also progressed with our expansion plan for Italy which includes additional city launches commencing later this quarter as well planned city launches in other markets in late 2015 and early 2016.
For which we have accelerated investment spending this year.
Let me remind you that today iQOS has been launched with the convenience claims of no ash and less smell.
As we build our scientific evidence package which I will touch and now we expect to be able to broaden our claims.
Clinical trials are a cornerstone of our robust evidence package to substantiate reduced exposure and a reduced risk claims.
We are conducting four types of clinical studies pharmacokinetics studies one week reduced exposure studies in the clinic three month reduced exposure ambulatory studies and the long-term exposure response studies.
We have completed all of this except for the long-term studies.
I will now share with you a selection of the results from our three months reduced exposure study in Japan.
In the study we measured biomarkers of exposure to harmful and potentially harmful compounds refers to as HVACs in adult smokers were switched iQOS adult smokers who treat for the duration of the study and adult smokers who continues to smoke combustible cigarettes.
The biomarkers were measured in each group over five days in the clinics and then for 85 days outside the clinic.
Allowing guys to assess changes in biomarkers of exposure in a closed to real work setting.
We then confer the reductions in exposure biomarkers of the group that switch to iQOS with the group that quit.
This slide shows the Japan's started results for four key biomarker of exposure.
The data show that compared to adult smokers who continues smoking shown in red the reductions in exposure biomarkers for adult smokers who switched to iQOS shown in blue approach those for the adult smokers who quit for the duration of the study which is shown in green.
In the study we measured a total of 15 biomarkers of exposures to 15 HVACs.
As illustrated by the chart the average reductions in biomarkers of exposure for adult smokers who switched to iQOS shown in blue reached over 95% of the reduction of serving dose who assist smoking during the starting period shown in green.
We expect to finalize the study reports by year end and it will fix to publish the data in the peer review of Scientific Journals in 2016.
Recognizing how important it will that iQOS is accepted by adult smokers in the same three month study in Japan we measured the level of product satisfaction of participants who switched to iQOS.
As shown here after an initial decline in product satisfaction the score rapidly increase and reached levels similar to dose for combustible cigarette.
In summary our scientific assessment of the risk profile of iQOS is well advanced and we are on course with our plan to demonstrate that iQOS is not only a reduced exposure product but also a reduced risk product.
Turning now to our free cash flow we generated $4.5 billion in the first nine months of the year.
This is only moderately below our free cash flow for the same period in 2014 despite an adverse currency impact of $1.8 billion.
Or resilient cash flow performance was supported by the prudent management of working capital and capital expenditures.
In 2015 we continue to forecast free cash flow broadly in line with the last year level despite the significant currency headwinds.
In September our board approved an increase in our quarterly dividend to an annualized rate of $4.08 per share reflecting a strong confidence in our business fundamentals and the future prospects.
These marks the eight consecutive dividend increase since the spin-off in the March 2008 representing a total increase of approximately 122% or compound annual growth of 12%.
As of last Friday's market close our dividend yield of 4.9% was significantly above that of our proxy peer group our tobacco peer companies and 10 year U.S.
treasury notes.
In conclusion we deliver strong currency neutral result in the third quarter reflecting improved cigarette industry volume trends and the robust business fundamental.
Our superior brand portfolio supported by superb commercial organization is driving strong pricing and the further market share gain.
We continue to book to progress with the commercialization and clinical assessment of iQOS.
Our resilience 2015 free cash flow has been supported by our prudent management of working capital and capital expenditures.
Finally on a currency neutral basis our 2015 EPS guidance reflect the growth rate of 11% to 12% versus 2014 adjusted diluted EPS of $5.02.
This impressive growth comes notwithstanding the significant incremental investments that we are making in the fourth quarter to support the expansion of iQOS and to range first the favorable momentum of our cigarette brand portfolio.
Thank you and I will be now happy to answer your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from Vivien Azer of Cowen.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Vivien.
As we look to the fourth quarter considering the very strong year-to-date results that we've seen the implied guidance for the fourth quarter clearly reflecting the incremental investment spending effect that you just called out.
Can you help dimensional the size of those investment if possible as well? Can you address any trade inventory timing issues that might way on the fourth quarter? I think that most of the performance in that Q4 the fourth quarter will be driven by our accelerated and being pre-investments behind iQOS and combustible cigarettes.
I think as we look at this today differential it should translate that will be slightly below the fourth quarter of last year maybe at par the fourth quarter of last year.
So yes there will be a quite investments step up as I said mainly behind the iQOS and the combustible business.
Okay fair enough.
Thank you.
And as we look at the EU and the increasingly more favorable volume dynamics that we seeing I know you guys called out production in illicit as well as reduced uptake and -- but can you comment on the evolution of price elasticities in that market because the volume trajectory looks particularly impressive giving the pricing that we are seeing in the region? The volumes trajectory is impressive and there is also the reason and also there isn't why as you remember we're revising the outlook for the total industry volume in the year.
I think it is the second or third time actually I think this year and it has also led us to increase our overall EPS guidance for this year.
Our elasticity is now turning over some period into their more attractive territory why could call it like this that's for us always elasticity in the range of -0.3 to -0.5 this is what we think is the source of the underlying elasticity for the tobacco category and we observe essentially in the most of the countries including the Southern Europe.
Hence the very strong performance coming from Spain Italy.
Obviously Italy will have their own challenges with Marlboro closing 5 Euro price point.
But overall I think the industry is pretty strong and our volumes obviously are pretty strong as well.
I think that many of this positives for the Europe adult from the overall better volume trends to some extend depends on a geography supported by a more attractive elasticity all the reduction in illicit trade should continue to the 2016 so the way we look at this and I know that everyone is now puzzled with Q4 performance but we actually our focus is already on 2016 and how much of these are very positive momentum for the industry but very much for us will continue into the 2016.
Perfect.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Matthew.
Thanks.
Yeah just first on Indonesia we’ve seen continued deceleration in shipments in consumption this year which seems more linked to the economic environment than pricing but it’s hard to separate out how all of these factors maybe impacting margins and OCI for the Asia region so when you take into account all these various factors pricing weaker consumption some of the investments you’ve made in selling infrastructure are you comfortable with how the profitability and margins of the Indonesian business have been progressing year-to-date? Yes I am very comfortable I mean what we have seen in Indonesia was more in the I think event of the third quarter where we’ve been also adjusting capacity and it resulted in some extra cost which we had to incur but overall I am not that much worry of the shorter trend of the industry volume if you look at the smoking incidents in Indonesia it’s relatively flat as you remember Indonesia is the market when you have a relatively high incidence of stick sales individual stick sales and obviously this allows the consumers to adjust a little bit faster if there is softening on the macro side.
I think so we observing a slight decline in a daily consumption but as I said in my remarks I think if you look at the overall positive demographics of Indonesia and growing the income level et cetera I am still confident 1% to 3% growth outlook for the total industry in the longer term is absolutely attainable pricing is very strong we still obviously don’t know how the tax discussions in Indonesia will unfold for the next year.
I think on a positive note is that since the government is recognizing that there was the issue which they inflated tax base due to the change in a payment terms for this year so conferring on a collection side from a government perspective 14 months to 12 months.
Let’s remain hopeful that the rate announced for the next year will take this into consideration at least to some extent we’ll have to see.
But in terms of a bottom-line growth of Indonesia I am very confident we’ll have infrastructure brand portfolio is very strong share for the year looks market share development looks very attractive and I think Indonesia is the market in which we obviously have the high expectations of a high growth.
So I don’t think it’s anything which would worry me at this stage why this should change.
Okay.
And then just one clarification just in terms of the bottom-line growth for Indonesia and long-term expectations there is that consistent with how the businesses performing this year are you seeing growth or is this better characterized as the year where you are reinvesting a bit back into the market? Well I mean we have been investing in Indonesia last and this year is behind deployment of a commercial organization as you know it’s a large country there is a very large sales force retail selling universe is one of the largest in the world.
So that obviously requires some appropriate investments if we want to continue to have the right support behind the brands.
We have the market in other parts of the world which also on an emerging side if you like and volumes are actually a little bit developing versus I may say versus Indonesia and we can drive the double-digit bottom-line growth.
So I think you cannot ever extrapolate directly for one country to another but I think Indonesia is in a good shape to deliver a very solid OCI growth bottom-line growth and remains one of the key contributors to Asia and PNR [ph].
Okay.
Thanks Jacek.
And then just one question on the regulatory side just wanted to get your thoughts on the draft version of the PPP agreement which I know right now is sort of under negotiation and on hold.
But assuming this is going to be negotiated and will go forward.
What do you see is the practical impact of the tobacco carve out if it stays in and is there still a realistic potential for it to be negotiated out.
Well as far as the PPP has no impact on a pending paces right.
So it's mainly Australia UK.
But we'll have to see how PPP will be adopted by the rectified by the signature is.
And if I may say on my side just say there is unfortunately there is negotiation during the negotiations people who are participating can traded away furnace and access to adjust this for all investors and instead they embrace the discrimination against the one single industry.
I'm not sure that people have worried a doubt of the five or six countries actually more than a six countries reported cases when there was a state investors dispute on the -- related to tobaccos.
So I think the whole process went in a completely wrong direction.
What important for us is that it hasn't deteriorate our position is that we defending very much the trademarks around the plain packaging and does not impact any of our pending cases and we sure that PPP adopt.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Judy.
So just and thinking about 2016 I know it's a little bit too early but you talked about how you focused on continuing to growth in 2016.
So as we look at this year obviously 11% to 12% expects currency growth above your kind a near to medium-term target that you lead out at your Investor Day in 2014.
So given the momentum you have in EU you're lapping the incremental spending behind the iQOS.
Just any reason to think that that kind of above average or above near to medium-term growth in 2016 can continue at this point? Look Judy the outlook for the tobacco market has improved has improved this year.
For us in particular in terms of the volume ex-pricing and overall profit growth.
So I mean a many of the project its which will have offset this year which will have businesses this year in our opinion should continue in the 2016.
I think it's a pretty much sure at this stage to talk about the specific guidance for 2016.
Our target of 8% to 10% on EPS I think seems obtainable.
But we need the more information to come up with the formal guidance for next year.
I think in February we will be in a good positions to talk about.
But yes that the trends from the Europe to Russia all the way still repeated Russia remains in our worse place.
The headline macros are not extremely positive although of the tobacco market size and the cigarette market side I mean that seems that consumer so far are navigating the pretty strongly.
You will have to also understand that this year we're very pleased we're very happy with the performance of this year but not necessarily we've had the most challenging performance like the year before.
Correspondingly we'll have to see how the 2016 will compared to 2015.
So I mean I remains very optimistic we've been I have to admit surprise ourselves by this strong performance of the EU region.
I am very glad that it comes from the number of markets being total markets but also strong pricing and the markets trend.
EEMA is very strong Latin America is very strong.
Asia we know that we have a couple of issues mainly in Japan which I have to admit is a disappointing and below our expectations with regards to market share.
But overall we look very optimistically into the 2016.
Okay.
And then just one quick follow-up on FX.
So I think I have it in my notes I think earlier in the year you hedged about I can't remember the 60% on the Yens and the effective hedge rate was one-tenth or around that level.
So can you just update on how you are hedged at this point and what the effective rate is? We don't talk that way at the beginning of the year we only give the hedge coverage ratio for the current year.
So in February we are giving currency the guidance we said that we will hedge up to 60% obviously there were few moments during a year when the Yen strengthen at least for the short period of time.
So we took advantage of that.
If you remember our policies to look at have 12 to 18 months.
So we prefer to assume that we have already have hedged some of our cash flow from Japan going in 2016.
We've already disclosed this number when we will give the guidance in February next year.
When it comes to effective rate just to help a little bit to estimate the currency impact in Q3 within our effective Yen effective rate of Yen to the Dollar for us was 111 slightly above 111 which comprise to about 98 Yen in Q3 of past year.
So you could see for the hedging strategy we had about 9-10 Yen below the current spot rates of Yen.
Okay that's helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from James Bushnell of Exane.
Hi good morning or good afternoon in Switzerland.
Good afternoon good morning.
Thank you.
I have two questions please.
The first one is just around pricing in Europe.
You have pricing around 5% which is a little bit softer than the first two quarters of the year.
I just wonder if those anything specific you call out there or if that strictly a mathematical effects and then my second -- sorry I'll let you answer the first question.
No this is mainly I guess the due to the timing of implementation.
You might have never will have the perfect type of timing alignment.
So some of the pricing which were taking in 2014 to some of the -- in 2015 depends on the counterfeit.
It's nothing specific nothing which is -- I think the pricing in the Europe is here so far and this full year is going to be very strong and a much stronger than we had in the past year.
Okay thank you and then just to drill in a bit more on Italy.
You obviously have good pricing this year.
I wondered if you could comment on what the outlook might be for the tax policy in 2016 and now that Marlboro is really above that ramp upfront which is hurt you on the share basis? Are you comfortable that moving it out further will not have similar effect? How are you thinking about the share loss of Marlboro in Italy? Well I mean it's not anything which comes by surprise.
I mean them usually when we cross their importance from psychological perspective one price point.
Marlboro usually is a first brand in the market to do this.
It's not really as I said surprised that the Marlboro has a bit of a headwind at that time.
I think we -- I'm happy that the prices went up in Italy.
There was a small reduction in the price -- I mean that's very helpful.
You cross that price points and later on consumer is to be less sensitive with the next price increases.
I think it's good that Marlboro is behind the price point.
Let's put it that way.
And is there any due from the Italian government in terms of what might happen to taxes next year? No we'll have to see.
I mean usually these discussions are taking place literally almost around the year end or beginning of the year.
So for Italy we'll have to see how they want to approach.
If they make the very good move as you remember at the beginning of this year.
Let's hope that they will continue with this direction in 2016.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Chris Growe of Stifel.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Chris.
Good afternoon to you.
Thank you.
Two question for you if I could the first would be that if your volume performance again this quarter was better than what I expected and you had some improvements in the EU and Russia in particular little software in Indonesia in terms of your outlook there.
So as you look at the overall line performance being stronger than certainly I thought for the quarter and we're just talking for like 1 to 1.5% decline in volume for the year we just push more towards the lower end of that range or just wanted to get some color around some of the big markets that are improving how that’s helping your overall volume performance.
Look I would still confirm it will be somewhere in the range of a 1% to 1.5% I don’t think we are in a position now to speculate we’ll be closer to 1%.
As you know Q4 is always there a quarter when you have some distortions coming from a fact that end of the year or beginning of the year the tax increases price changes et cetera.
So I think for a cost of doubt for 1% to 1.5% is pretty realistic EU has a good volume it’s no question about it Russia we are rolling out the 5 rubles per pack price increase so some of this prices already will roll through the market we’ll see how that’s going impact the overall industry and our shipments volume that from the we have a sequential good performance in Korea Philippines there is a good performance overall see how we close but it looks good and as I said before I think some of the positive industry trends and this is not just the quarter-on-quarter but longer term I think they should continue to happen in the 2016.
Okay.
Just one other question probably which is around the Asia division overall and we talk last quarter on the call about the Asia division approaching in your mid-term guidance sort of range for profitability this quarter and I think year-to-date you are up around 4% I guess so relate to that should we expect a stronger fourth quarter in that Asia region and then related to that should we see any inventory adjustments occurring in Japan in this fourth quarter it’s been kind of an up and down pattern for those this year.
No we are taking the inventory adjustment are related to the lower than expected market share so obviously we don’t want to – high inventories and try to have something which reflects the at least short-term forecast.
So depends how we perform in Q4 I mean there might be some inventory movement we are also comparing Q4 to the distorted Q4 last year when we are going to shutting down the factory in Holland in Europe which ship most of the product to Japan used to be shipped from this factory.
So we are building some inventory to be on a safer side.
If you go to the overall performance of the Asia region Asia is a recipient of increased investment this year behind iQOS and also behind the combustible cigarette because we are investing obviously Japan is in a full fledge rollout to about 60% of the total market we started in September we have not deployed all tools behind iQOS in the market we will be gearing up to opening more iQOS flagship stores is obviously is going to have a cost impact there was an increased investment behind the cigarette category in Philippines behind the very strong momentum and the narrowing of the price gaps continue investment in Indonesia.
So Asia will not have a spectacular performance this year better than the last year but we will not have a spectacular performance this year.
Okay.
Thank you for your time.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Good morning Bonnie.
I have a question on iQOS in Italy and the draft tobacco products directive are you broadly happy with the directive and as it written such that you will be able to ultimately make reduce risk claims on iQOS? And then could you update us on any new product and or technology innovation behind iQOS and when you might be ready to roll something out? I think we are pleased with the development of the tobacco product directive so far is being transport into the Italian legislation I think critical for us is and therefore we announced publicly today the results of our 90 days or three months exposure study because that’s one of the key elements of us discussing with regulatory bodies on the claims and we’re going to maybe about the products so that will be positive.
We're now at this stage when we fine tuning of finalizing the claims as seems them we have customers so we will not have as well achieve the proper understanding.
As I think we have a pretty solid evidence at this stage to progress and support iQOS rollouts with the reduced at least exposure claims at this stage.
In terms of the new innovations yes there is a pipeline of a new developments behind iQOS for obvious reasons Bonnie I can't tell you at this stage but yes I mean I believe that pretty strong innovations that which will come into the market for this year and that to the new market as the large group of the new markets next year when they will see the further enhanced the improved versions of iQOS in terms of HeatSticks.
And the variety of the blend type directions which we can offer as well as iQOS is the device in terms of attached field more user friendly electronics and so on.
So as you remember [indiscernible] was launched in the pretty industrial I would say high performance iQOS device.
But you are all in these the new version much more modern and a much more I believe actually to smokers to adult smokers.
And I think we'll be deploying more of these innovations as we speak.
Okay thanks.
And then I just have sort of big picture question as you think about your business overall can you identify for us markets for you're seeing the biggest improvements and down trending pressures easing or moderating just in summary? Well I think EU overall is the holds very well actually improved very well.
To the extent that the mix essentially issue for us does not exists in the EU market.
But that's very good.
You have in EEMA region you will have the strong performance we've up trading in the big part of the North Africa.
Turkey holds very well I mean despite the fact that total industry volumes up and obviously some of this early stage recoveries usually initially fuel the bottom part of the market but if I look at the parliament and the Marlboro share performance despite the strong market.
I mean it's pretty -- it's very solid.
You have obviously big up trading in Philippines right as a result above a closure of --.
And well it's very important to us is that it's not the one product variance of Marlboro which takes the benefit of the up trading is across all variance of Marlboro we see the up trading.
So that's important but as we said we'll have to see how the pricing further unfolds in Philippines but so far year it is that clears as we initially planned despite the fact that as you remember we had a couple of difficult years in Philippines but the recoveries is on a good track.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the Bill Marshall of Barclays.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Bill.
Just kind of building off with that question actually.
I want to talk about trade because it feels like you mentioned a quite a bit in the press release today mostly on the positive side particularly in the EU and EEMA.
A little bit more negative it sounded like in Asia with some increases in listed trade.
Has this become more of a cyclical factor for you guys and kind of again going back to last question indicative of up trading and down trading? Or is it something that some governments are starting to take an even harder line and you're seeing some improvement there.
No just to clarify I think the only market which we have a well sharp growing at least way at this stage is Australia.
Okay it would be something in Pakistan but the adjust [ph] is a little long.
You have generally we can observe a better illicit or lower illicit trade levels in EU in the number of markets not just the one particular.
And that's the product that's I think this is strongly supporting the total industry recovery or better trends.
We have Philippines alone with the higher declarations coming from a mighty I mean that's clearly the recovery of that tax not paid volumes and Turkey has the extremely strong recovery.
I think usually I think as its highest level if I recall Turkey was about 20% of the listed trade penetration and I think recently shrink to about 11%.
So that's really lowest over the long period of time incidence of the listed trade in Turkey.
If you pay net-net that's about 10 points of a straight recovery and you see year-to-date market in Turkey about 10% there was underlying growth secular growth in Turkey.
But still 10% only can be explained by the recovery of the listed trade.
So we see it in the number of geographies.
Now we have invested also a lot of efforts manpower effort behind engaging with the government engaging with the key stakeholders being the custom law enforcement etcetera international organization.
I think it's finally I'm going to start bringing a very good fruit and that's thing that many of this positive development of the listed trade.
So my opinion continues at least in the near future.
Okay great.
Thank you and then just a point of clarification when we talk about this spending particularly behind iQOS did you push any of that spending from the third quarter into the fourth quarter? And if so could you quantify any of that spending for us and what this could mean as we look forward to that push into 2016 at all or is this kind of your on track for the plan how do you saw it earlier in the year? Thank you.
I think we have a more of the push from a 2016 and in 2015 as we revised our plans and we rolled-out iQOS to the more geographies that we have initially planned at the beginning of the year.
You might have some distortion the timing in fact between Q3 and Q4 because once we accelerated our plans for deployment I mean as far as you need to have a plans developed on a solid when you come spending.
So usually spending follows a little bit after the plans are discussed approved and released to the market ready to go.
But I think it's the more of the 2016 going to 2015 in terms of iQOS over an acceleration than just the Q3 to Q4 and if I remember we have been indicating that on the back half of the year we will have that we expect the higher spending on iQOS and throughout the list that as we observe during the first three quarters of the year much stronger momentum behind the cigarette business which have also step up some investment behind that cargo of our portfolio.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Good morning good afternoon.
Good morning.
I just wanted to follow up on Vivien's question first and clarify make sure I call what you said you said that it might you are talking about 4Q you are talking about parity to last year’s 4Q or maybe slightly below was that on EPS basis? Yes this was on EPS basis.
Thanks for helping to clarify.
I said this would be can't be slightly below last year maybe as parity.
But this is on EPS currency to be to formally drive.
Also then if you've guessed if my math is right you've got $3.61 for the 9 months-to-date this year.
It looks like that would mean a 74 to 79 in fourth quarter for your full year guidance.
But I reconcile it with slightly below last year? It felt like that's quite a bit below even with currency included.
Well I mean I think you mark these both right.
I think the guidance it depends on which point of a new guidance you are going to base the calculation to take out what we had in the Q4 and that's the -- about the results.
Okay and then just what maybe to dig into that a little bit more and get some color on as a spending you've got year-to-date and average quarterly organic growth rate of around 6.5% and organic EBIT growth around the 11% average last year’s 4Q organic EBIT growth was down 12.
So it's your easiest comparison and you have a lot of momentum this year.
How much could you possibly spend in that? I mean it looks like you might need $300 million to $400 million of incremental investments to get to the kind a numbers you're talking about.
Do you even have the abilities to spend that much in an effective way in one quarter? We have a very large organization.
I think twice the sizeable brand iQOS itself.
I think 400 is on a high side but I think it will be an obviously substantially do the comps.
When you do the comps you have to just notice the one thing that growth on those CI level last year versus lowering the EPS level I mean it's slightly different.
We have the few items that's below their CI level.
But it will still stay with my maps in on an EPS in the Q1 and on an ex-currency basis we put the below what have last year.
Okay now that's very helpful.
Thanks.
And then just touching back on Indonesia you're saying that you think the category volumes probably are going to be about flat this year.
But with the last two quarters down over 4%.
It looks like that would be meaning about a 3% gain in 4Q or about 7 point improvement.
Obviously there is some macro pressure there that's helping the inflation side because inflation is moderating.
But is there any particular catalyst for why the category might accelerate that rapidly for 4Q or maybe we're missing.
Well this is a cigarette industry estimate on the quarterly basis.
And I said that in one of the previous calls I wouldn't pay that much attention how the estimate is being done and what the numbers are on the quarterly basis.
I think for the full year I think it seems that Indonesia based on our outlook Indonesia will turn to be a flattish or flat versus last year.
You might have some movement between the quarters.
It's marginally the consumption level of the industry shipments volumes so will have to both into the timing of the price changes in the market and what's happened last quarter versus during the fourth quarter of last year.
And what expect at this -- expect it will happen in a fourth quarter of this year.
I think for this year yes I mean you have the softer end of volumes in Indonesia I mean that's slightly a lower sort of a performance.
But as I said in my remarks it hasn't nothing really comes in Indonesia which will trouble us in our view then in the longer term the market is potential to grow with the 1% to 2% range.
It's critical for us is to know whether the tax rate for the next year and then we done have the better estimate have Indonesia market will perform good.
We think is that the pricing is very strong I think a lot of investments which we have made behind the commercial organization as well as the capacity restructuring between handmade and hand -- all than the machine by cigarette is done.
There is solid performance next year.
Okay now that's helpful.
And then just on Australia you've mentioned the strong pricing there and the gains in bond street and some other positives.
Just on a total view that certainly was a big issue last year it seems like it's at the minimum now getting the same attention because it's improved a good bit.
Can you just put that total your total business there in context and how you see the maybe next rest of the year or beyond in terms of outlook for that? Well I don't think we've -- with Australia yet okay.
This year Australia by far less of a drop for our Asia and the total PMI performance that was last year.
But we cannot say -- here that this kind of segments are moderated to muted its growth compared to how fast the segment was growing essentially all quarters of last year.
We are much more presenting the segment with bond street I mean enhance the significant share advancement.
We still observe quite a level of a discounting in the market.
So I mean now the market the total market size is a bit distorted because the just after the tax change tax exchange.
We'll have to see I think we've did and before coming tax changes we should hopefully see moderation of the heavy discounting that very much at the bottom of the market and we’ll have to see the trends are slightly better but it’s I wouldn’t call that Australia is behind.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from Phil Quorum [ph] of Morningstar.
Hi everyone.
Thanks for taking the call.
Jacek you are building a compelling case behind iQOS my question is how would you characterize your confidence at this that – that will be the category that emerges with the highest acceptance rate among consumers? And then what’s the implication of that on other categories would it still make sense to spend behind platforms three and four for example? Thanks.
I maybe start with the second part of your question I think it makes sense to continue our investment in terms of a product development and its assessment scientific assessment behind the other platforms because we think that there is a market for both fully electronic cigarette as well as the products which are based on a – heat not burg heat not burn today offers consumers what we observe in the market a level of a satisfaction which is very comparable to the combustible cigarette.
Knowing that the evidence which we have presented also today makes us confident that this is a product which significantly reduces the risk profile of the consumers versus continuing smoking combustible cigarette I think we will be in a position to demonstrate based again on our studies and the whole portfolio of evidence that the product is reducing significantly the risk for smoking versus the traditional combustible product.
Acceptance is a very important component also in a few of our strategy of not only demonstrating that we can reduce the harm to individual but we can reduce the harm to population because you might have a great product which is accepted which is of a reduce which has a reduced risk profile but is not accepted by consumers and frankly speaking you not address the problem the issue.
So yes we remain very confident that the current product which we have iQOS has a big potential but we also think that consumers not all consumers will like to stay within tobacco based products and they may for variety of reasons they may elect to go into the straight non-tobacco based but nicotine based electronic cigarette as with – initial high interest in many markets including UK and some others in the Europe or the U.S.
so yes we will continue investing behind all four platforms as we believe there is a room and a potential for each of these platforms going forward.
Okay great.
Thanks Jacek.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Adam Spielman of Citi.
Hello.
Thank you for taking my question.
On the reduced risk products can you tell me who will give you permission to make the claims either reduced exposure or reduced risk claims is that national versus in every country would it require EU central permission from Brazil for EU countries? Thank you.
Well in the case of the United States that’s clearly FDA in the case of the EU the way that European tobacco product directive is being transferred it is being delegated to the individual member state.
So we will have to have well the first we’ll have to determine what sort of a process individual member states wants to have in the territory to allow for the claims et cetera.
But it’s very very specific or very different country by country and market by market there are some markets today where we can go and make claims already as we say today.
And just follow-up.
Within the markets that you also currently we’re currently talking about which I guess is the European markets particularly Italy Switzerland which is obviously non-EU Japan wherever countries where you have the best dialog and you think you got the best chance of making a health claimer or reduced risk reduced exposure claim.
I think you know the countries we have a good engagement.
The critical is that we need to support the discussions the engagement with the [indiscernible].
And therefore it was very critical for us that we progressing as per plan in the conducting this started as we announced today.
The 90 days starter which was important I know beyond the one piece of EBITDA which you are bringing to the table.
Obviously the more evidence you have at the table the more constructive discussions you have.
As I think we’re on a good path in each of this country despite the fact that they have some differences in the regular projects.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
We have time for one more question.
Your final question comes from Russo from Russo Guard [ph].
Hi.
Congratulations on wonderful numbers keep up the good work.
I was curious I may have missed the comments on that Transpacific partners backed up forward revising legislations.
And wondered what comments you may have made or what you might make on that.
So thank you very much for congratulations.
On the PPP I've made two comments one is that PPP is no impact on a pending phases which you have.
So it's been most importantly the case which we have in Australia will not be impacted by the PPP.
Going forward we'll have to see solid PPP is going to be primarily adopted by the individual signatures of the street.
As I hear I mean in the US in particular although we're seeing some other places is not necessary that it receives enormous reception.
For obvious reasons which I mentioned because the net of – have things allows one in Australia and if you look at the statistics of all the investors states disputes so far it will bit more going to be see this comes with dispute between the investors and the days and on the two of the business relates to tobacco.
So difficult to find the logic while industry is convert.
It was all about the later of what we called treatment it will access adjusted and some negotiators have violated or forgot about that principle.
It's a sad story but as I said at this stage I don't think it impact on our abilities to defend our positions with regards to protecting our trade more.
Thank you.
And so did you will challenged because its present issue and arbitrary and we don't think it happen might this year is that cause of action regarding Australia.
That's correct.
Thank you.
This concludes the question-and-answer session in today's conference.
I will now turn the floor back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
This ends the call if you have any follow up calls the Investor Relations team is in Switzerland and we'll happy to take your call.
Thank you very much.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Philip Morris International Fourth Quarter 2015 Year-End Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is scheduled to last about one hour including remarks by Philip Morris International management and the question-and-answer session.
Media representatives on the call will also be invited to ask questions at the conclusion of questions from the investment community.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Nick Rolli Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Welcome and thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we issued a press release containing detailed information on our 2015 fourth quarter and full-year results.
You may access the release on our website at www.pmi.com or the PMI Investor Relations App.
During our call today we'll be talking about results for the fourth quarter and full-year 2015 and comparing them to the same period in 2014 unless otherwise stated.
A glossary of terms adjustments and other calculations as well as reconciliations to U.S.
GAAP measures are at the end of today's webcast slides which are posted on our website.
Reduced-risk products or RRPs is the term we use to refer to products with the potential to reduce individual risk and population harm in comparison to smoking cigarettes.
Today's remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results.
I direct your attention to the forward-looking and cautionary statements disclosure in today's presentation and press release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections or forward-looking statements.
It's now my pleasure to introduce André Calantzopoulos our Chief Executive Officer.
Jacek Olczak our Chief Financial Officer will join André for the question-and-answer period.
André.
Thank you Nick and welcome ladies and gentlemen.
2015 was an excellent year for PMI.
Moderating declines in cigarette industry volume notably in the EU region coupled with market share gains enabled us to record a full-year organic cigarette shipment volume decline of only 1% our best performance since 2012.
Of particular note were the performances of Marlboro and L&amp;M which grew cigarette volume by 0.9% and 3.9% respectively.
Strong pricing across all regions combined with substantially lower and favorable volume/mix compared to recent years resulted in net revenue and adjusted OCI growth excluding currency and acquisitions of 5.8% and 6.6% respectively.
Despite significant incremental investments behind both iQOS and our cigarette brand portfolio announced last July and disclosed in today's press release our adjusted OCI margin increased by 0.3 percentage points to 42.6% excluding currency and acquisitions.
The increase was driven by the EEMA and Latin America &amp; Canada regions.
Our adjusted diluted EPS excluding currency grew by a very strong 12% at the high end of the raised guidance range that we reaffirmed last November.
The strengthening of the U.S.
dollar against virtually all of our key operating currencies was an unprecedented headwind for our business in 2015 and resulted in a full-year adverse currency impact of $1.20 on our adjusted diluted EPS.
In the fourth quarter our organic cigarette volume declined by 2.4% due to lower cigarette industry volumes and lower market share notably in the Asia region.
Our cigarette volume was impacted by a one-time distributor inventory adjustment in Russia related to supply chain optimization.
Excluding this adjustment our quarterly volume decline was in line with that of the full year.
Net revenues increased by 4% excluding currency with favorable pricing across all regions more than offsetting unfavorable volume/mix mainly the EEMA and Latin America &amp; Canada regions.
As previously communicated our incremental investments in 2015 were concentrated in the fourth quarter.
This resulted in currency-neutral adjusted OCI and adjusted diluted EPS declines in the quarter.
Our full-year 2015 results confirm that our business fundamentals are strong and the incremental investments that we made throughout the year and in the fourth quarter in particular should further reinforce our momentum in 2016.
Our reported diluted EPS guidance for 2016 at prevailing exchange rates is a range of $4.25 to $4.35.
This was $4.42 in 2015 and includes an unfavorable currency impact of approximately $0.60.
This guidance represents a growth rate excluding currency of approximately 10% to 12% compared to an adjusted diluted EPS of $4.42 in 2015.
This reflects a currency-neutral adjusted OCI growth rate above our mid- to long-term algorithm.
Importantly this guidance does not include any share repurchases.
We'll revisit the potential for repurchases as the year unfolds depending on the currency environment.
The $0.60 of unfavorable currency impact at prevailing exchange rates included in our 2016 guidance is driven primarily by the Argentine peso Indonesia rupiah Japanese yen and Russian ruble.
These four currencies account for around 60% of the total impact.
We have currently hedged approximately 72% of our 2016 forecast sales to Japan which at prevailing exchange rates translates to an effective rate of 118 yen to the U.S.
dollar versus 110 yen in 2015.
Pricing was the key driver of our full-year 2015 financial performance.
We recorded a total pricing variance of $2.1 billion supported by strong contributions from all four regions.
As a reminder this variance includes an exceptional gain in Korea related to inventories built ahead of the January 2015 excise tax increase which will not recur in 2016.
This year we anticipate a pricing variance of around 6% of our 2015 net revenues.
Our performance in 2015 was underpinned by an improving cigarette industry volume trend and continued market share momentum.
We estimate that international cigarette industry volume excluding China and the U.S.
declined by 2.4% in 2015 a further moderation compared to the declines in 2015 and 2014.
For this year we forecast a decline of 2% to 2.5% on the same basis.
Our continued market share momentum in 2015 is clearly demonstrated on this slide with international share excluding China and the U.S.
up by 0.2 points to 28.7% and share growth in the EU EEMA and Latin America &amp; Canada regions.
Our share in the Asia region was stable.
Marlboro was a key driver of market share momentum in 2015 increasing its international share excluding China and the U.S.
by 0.2 points to 9.6%.
The brand had growing or stable share in all four regions and continued to benefit from the roll-out of Architecture 2.0 which is now approaching 100 markets worldwide.
Importantly our 2015 share in the top-30 PMI OCI markets grew by 0.7 points to 38% with share up or essentially flat in 20 of these markets.
This underscores the positive momentum of our business across the majority of our most profitable markets.
While pricing and market share gains are the foundation of our top line growth we remain focused on effectively managing our cost base.
Our midterm targeted annual cost base increase is 1% to 3% excluding RRPs and currency.
In 2015 we decided to deploy additional investments some of which will not recur in 2016 to support the strong momentum of our cigarette brand portfolio and accelerate the geographic expansion of iQOS.
This resulted in a total cost base increase excluding currency of 3.6% excluding RRPs or 5.3% including RRPs.
In 2016 we expect our total cost base including RRPs to increase by approximately 1% excluding currency reflecting productivity and cost-saving programs and also held by the moderating prices for key inputs such as tobacco leaf clove and non-tobacco materials.
Let me now discuss our performance in key geographies beginning the EU region.
Following declines of 7.3% and 3.1% in 2013 and 2014 respectively there was a further moderation of the total cigarette industry volume decline to 0.9% in 2015.
We attribute the moderation to improving economies notably Southern Europe a decline in the prevalence of illicit trade less outreaching to the fine-cut category and a lower prevalence of e-vapor product.
Our positive cigarette share momentum in the region continued in 2015 with fourth quarter and full-year share up by 0.3 points and 0.1 point respectively.
In the fourth quarter our share increased in five of the six largest markets by cigarette industry volume demonstrating the breadth of our share strength.
As we had anticipated our share in Italy was adversely impacted by the decline of Marlboro following its crossing of five euro per-pack price point in the first quarter of 2015.
Marlboro L&amp;M and Chesterfield further reinforced their positions as the region's top-three cigarette industry brands by volume for the second consecutive year.
Full-year market share for Marlboro increased by 0.2 points to 18.9% driven by strong performances in France Germany and Spain.
Share for L&amp;M increased by 0.1 point by 6.9% while Chesterfield grew by 0.2 share points to 5.8%.
The moderating cigarette industry volume decline coupled with our market share gains and strong pricing resulted in adjusted OCI growth excluding currency and acquisitions of 4.6% in the EU region in 2015.
This marked the region's first adjusted OCI increase on the same basis since 2009.
In 2016 we forecast mid-single digit currency-neutral adjusted OCI growth in the region.
I will now turn to Russia the largest market in our EEMA region where estimated cigarette industry volume declined by 8.4% in the fourth quarter and 6.2% for the full year.
The declines were mainly due to significant excise tax-driven retail price increases which we estimate averaged more than 20% year-over-year as well as lower consumer purchasing power.
Our full-year 2015 market share increased by 0.9 points to 28.4% driven mainly by low-price Bond Street and super-low price Next which benefited from adult smoker down-trading and a wider distribution particularly in the eastern part of the country.
Importantly Parliament was up by 0.2 share points despite the overall premium segment decline of 0.7 points.
In January this year the government implemented its planned 2016 excise tax increase resulting in an average tax pass-on of around 10 rubles per pack or 14% on an industry weighted average basis.
In anticipation we announced retail selling price increases across the majority of our portfolio of five rubles per pack last November and a further five rubles per pack this January with the most recent increase likely to appear at retail in the second quarter.
Estimated cigarette industry volume in Turkey grew by 7.8% in the fourth quarter and 9% for the full year.
This exceptional growth was driven mainly by a significant reduction in the prevalence of illicit trade which declined by over five percentage points to around 14% in 2015.
Our market share in Turkey has strengthened with three quarters of sequential growth.
Fourth quarter share increased by 0.3 points to 44.2% and was driven by the superb performance of Marlboro up by 1.2 points to 9.9%.
Marlboro shipment volume increased by 20.6% in the quarter.
In January the government increased the specific excise tax and the minimum excise tax while leaving the ad valorem rate unchanged representing a further improvement in the excise tax structure.
This resulted in a pass-on of around 40 kurus per pack at the retail level.
We implemented a retail selling price increase of one lira per pack across the majority of our portfolio thus enhancing unit margin.
I will now touch on our Asia region beginning with Indonesia where estimated cigarette industry volume was stable in 2015 in line with our forecast and primarily due to the soft economy.
While market share in the fourth quarter declined by one point to 34.3% reflecting the impact of retail price increases on our machine-made kretek brands taken in advance of the January 2016 excise tax increase our full-year market share grew slightly to 35%.
On an industry weighted average basis the 2016 excise tax increase is around 15%.
Despite the muted performance of the total market last year we remain very optimistic about the profit growth opportunities in this key market thanks to its growing adult population and rising income levels.
In the Philippines price gaps narrowed further in the fourth quarter following price increases at the bottom of the market.
The gap between Marlboro and the super-low price brands of our primary local competitor now stands at around one peso per cigarette and narrowing of 50 centavos per cigarette or 33% since December 2013.
The improved price gaps have been a key driver of our strong share performance.
Based on Nielsen retail audit data our full-year 2015 share increased by 1.4 points to 73.4%.
Marlboro was the primary driver of this share gain increasing by an impressive 2.7 points to 21.4%.
Fortune also gained share growing by 0.7 points to 31.1%.
Marlboro shipment volume increased by 18.8% in 2015 and drove favorable mix.
Encouragingly we continue to improve profitability in this important market.
In Japan cigarette industry volume declined by 2.1% in 2015.
This was less than what we had anticipated due mainly to trade inventory build-up from competitors' recent new launches.
Our cigarette market share performance was clearly below our expectations.
Share declined by 0.6 points to 25.3% in 2015 due primarily to competitors' offerings in the new differentiated menthol taste segment.
Nevertheless we remain confident in the long-term outlook for our cigarette brand portfolio in Japan.
Turning to our reduced-risk products portfolio let me briefly highlight the progress that we made in 2015 on the commercialization of iQOS.
During the year we expanded the geographic presence of iQOS in our 2014 city launch markets with the first wave of expansion in Japan reaching over 60% of the adult smoker population and the initial expansion in Italy beyond Milan to Modena Rome and Turin.
We also launched iQOS in major cities across Switzerland and commenced city launches in Bucharest Lisbon and Moscow.
By the end of 2016 we expect iQOS to be present in key cities in around 20 markets globally.
In Japan which is by far our more advanced iQOS launch market in terms of geographic and adult smoker coverage we estimate there were over 130 000 fully or predominantly converted iQOS users by the end of 2015.
In the last week of December we achieved an estimated off-take share for Marlboro HeatSticks of 1.1% in the expansion area and 1.7% in Tokyo.
Importantly our weekly off-take shares have grown steadily since the expansion began in September.
Please note that off-take share represents retail sales volume for HeatSticks as a percentage of the total estimated retail sales volume for cigarettes and HeatSticks within a given geographic area.
I look forward to sharing further the scientific and commercial that we have made with iQOS during our presentation at the CAGNY Conference later this month.
I will now cover our free cash flow which increased by over $300 million in 2015 to reach $6.9 billion.
This was a remarkable achievement considering the adverse currency impact of $1.9 billion on our net earnings and was fueled by important working capital initiatives.
As a reminder the proceeds from the Sampoerna Rights Issue are not included in our free cash flow.
In 2016 we forecast free cash flow broadly in line with last year's level again despite the anticipated adverse currency headwind at prevailing exchange rates.
We remain focused on rewarding our shareholders generously with the dividend currently serving as the primary use of our free cash flow.
Last September we increased our annual dividend for the eighth consecutive year since the spin in 2008 representing a total increase of approximately 122% at a compound annual growth rate of 12%.
Our dividend yield at the end of last week was 4.5%.
This is very attractive in comparison to the yields of our peer group company.
In conclusion 2015 was an excellent year for PMI reflecting improved cigarette industry volume trends and very robust business fundamentals.
Our superior cigarette brand portfolio supported by a unique commercial organization is driving strong pricing and continued market share gains.
Marlboro is performing extremely well with the continued roll-out of the 2.0 Architecture driving volume and share growth.
We're very excited by our progress with the commercialization of iQOS which is underscored by our favorable HeatStick off-take share momentum in Japan.
Our strong free cash flow continues to support our generous dividends.
Finally the outlook for our business remains strong.
On a currency-neutral basis our 2016 EPS guidance reflects a growth rate of approximately 10% to 12% versus 2015 adjusted diluted EPS of $4.42.
Thank you.
Jacek and I will now be happy to answer your questions.
Thank you.
We will now conduct the question-and-answer portion of the conference.
[Operation Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thank you for the question.
Hi.
I just had two questions about pricing.
I guess first André I wanted to ask you about the pricing environment in Japan since Japan Tobacco has requested a price increase on Mevius.
I was wondering whether you've made any similar requests on your portfolio or if you can talk us through how you're thinking about the opportunity there.
Okay.
Clearly the move from Japan Tobacco is encouraging but you appreciate I cannot make any further comments on pricing in Japan for obvious reasons.
Okay.
But that I guess would confirm that you haven't made any formal requests yet.
I didn't say that.
Regardless of what your intentions might be.
Okay.
And then I guess just a broader question then.
Your comments about the expectation for a 6% pricing variance this year implies about $1.6 billion in pricing a bit below the $1.8 billion that we would typically think of as being sort of a midterm target.
And I know that Korea accounts for a portion of that gap.
But if we exclude that is there more an issue of rounding or do you see the potential for a more moderate level of pricing across the industry this year in light of macroeconomic weakness? Well as you rightly said Korea is the biggest swing because it swings about almost 1 point of pricing variance year-to-year compared to our previous year's revenues.
Apart that there is nothing particular here that we should be reading so we're very confident about the pricing environment.
I think it's very positive and the excise tax environment is also positive so not much change compared to the previous year.
Okay.
And then I guess one other quick follow-up.
Just within Indonesia you mentioned the impact of crossing some critical pricing thresholds during the fourth quarter.
Is that a temporary price gap issue or something that could linger for a few quarters? Well I think this is temporary because sooner or later others are crossing the critical points.
Now that had more impact for us in this quarter.
There is another phenomenon that had a lot of increased activity I would say towards the end of the year in Indonesia which is a number of competitive offerings that sell essentially 20 sticks per pack at the price of 16.
Now these propositions typically are not viable longer term because if you remember the excise tax in Indonesia is specific and on a per-stick basis.
But temporarily you have some distortions because of these launches that should ease during the year.
So that's essentially what happened in Indonesia in the quarter.
Okay.
Thanks and congratulations on the results this year.
Thank you for your question.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Hi everyone.
Hi Judy.
André I wanted to get a little bit more color on the Russian market.
Obviously the shipment number in the fourth quarter was negatively impacted by inventory movement.
But I think your share also was a little bit softer sequentially.
So just wondering what's going on competitively.
What are you seeing in terms of down-trading situation in terms of the consumers? And then if you look out for 2016 your view in terms of how the industry volume would look like in Russia.
Okay.
First of all let's start with this inventory that has a little bit distorted the numbers of the fourth quarter overall so for PMI.
Essentially it's an one-off adjustment because we decided to have our own warehouses in certain parts of the country rather than our distributor in order to facilitate distribution.
And on top of it it helps working capital.
So that's the reason we implemented but there is no swings in there.
That's one-off.
In terms of what's happening in the market in terms of total market you appreciate it's a bit difficult to forecast.
Last year we had forecasted the total market will decline by 9%.
We ended up much better.
We forecast again given the magnitude of the price increases another 9% this year.
If we come out better we'll all be very happy.
That's how I see the market.
Now in terms of downtrading clearly there is downtrading.
It's not dramatic.
But we see if we look at the year 2% share shifting from the mid segment and premium segment to essentially the low-price segment not the super-low which is fairly stable.
And we gain share in both premium low and super-low segment.
So I think we're well positioned overall in this environment.
Now again Russia you know the economy's a bit weak.
The ruble has devalued.
But overall I think in terms of portfolio position we are in a very good place and we've already taking pricing.
So I feel pretty good about Russia overall if the ruble was a bit less volatile than it is.
Have I answered your questions? Yeah.
That's helpful.
And then I guess my second question is just in terms of the investments that you made in 2015 and I guess more specifically lapping of that in 2016.
Because your comment that your cost base is still going up 1% year-over-year implies that the incremental investment's actually staying in the cost base in 2016 and so forth.
So are these investments that you've made in 2015 still continuing as it relates to some of these iQOS commercialization? Or can you just give us a little bit sense of kind of that lapping of that and costs still going up on a year-over-year basis? Okay.
What happened is first of all the direction we gave for 2016 is 1% approximately up including reduced-risk products where we have obviously incremental spending compared to 2015.
Okay that's the first item.
And don't forget our target is 1% to 3% per year excluding RRP.
So just to facilitate your understanding I would say that 40% of the incremental spending in the last quarter is nonrecurring in 2016 roughly okay? And we clearly had also quite substantial incremental spending on iQOS in the fourth quarter.
Now the nonrecurring items relate to obviously the implementation of the Tobacco Products Directive in 2016 but some of the costs have to happen in 2015.
It's also some restructuring that we don't report under reported but in the normal earnings plus some one-off items.
So in total that's what – how I would see it.
And I hope I helped you a little bit to understand.
So I guess what you're saying is that 60% of the incremental spending is still recurring so you have that still in 2016.
And then obviously the 1% total cost base going up also still includes some of the commercialization spending related to iQOS that would be more incremental in nature.
Exactly.
Okay.
Understood.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of James Bushnell of Exane.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I have two please.
The first was on pricing in Europe.
Obviously you've had a good year there and the outlook looks good in terms of OCI growth.
But the pricing numbers seem to be a little softer than earlier in the year and I just wondered if you could give us some color around that please.
And then the second question was on the retention rates you're getting in iQOS.
The market share numbers you mentioned sound quite impressive but I just wondered if the 30% retention rates you mentioned in the past was still consistent and how it was looking in Switzerland for example as well.
Thank you.
Okay.
In Europe; pricing in Europe is unchanged.
What we make some difference in the quarter is if you remember in Germany in 2014 we took pricing in the middle of the year toward the second half.
And in 2015 we anticipated earlier.
So until the third quarter we had two overlapping annualization of pricing from the previous year from 2014 and the pricing in 2015 which we don't have – we didn't have in the last quarter.
But as you know we announced pricing in Germany so we are back in the normal course.
Okay.
That will explain this.
Now I will give much more granularity about iQOS in CAGNY.
I don't want to steal the thunders of everybody but the retention rates are much higher than the 30%.
And that's very encouraging in Japan actually.
Great.
Okay.
Well look forward to CAGNY.
Thanks a lot for your answer.
Your next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
Hi André and Jacek.
Hi Bonnie.
Hi.
My first question is on the EU.
How sustainable are the improved trends you've been seeing throughout the region? And also you continue to highlight a lower prevalence of e-vapor products in the EU.
So I'm curious how much of a factor that's been to the improved combustible cig volume; possibly these consumers have been switching back.
Look I hope the trends in Europe are sustainable.
I mean where we forecast it's early in the year.
But from everything we know including pricing we think we may be a bit lower than last year a bit higher decline but well above actually our 2% to 3% secular decline that we anticipate.
So to me it looks fairly good in Europe okay? And part of that is attributed obviously to a lower share of e-cigarettes but also a little bit less illicit trade.
And I think maybe because the economies also are improving higher average daily consumption which you don't see in the trends.
But that explains part of the volume clearly.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I have a question on your share repurchase program.
So if your FX headwind stays where it's at say for the next couple of quarters is this an okay level for you to resume your share repurchases? Or do you need this headwind to reverse to be comfortable before you'd resume your buyback? I'm just trying to get a sense of what's going to give you comfort? Is it more visibility or a lower headwind? Well a lower headwind obviously because at current levels it makes no sense to resume share repurchases.
So once we see reversal then we can revisit the issue.
And I hope we will see at some stage.
Yes.
Agreed.
If I may ask just one final quick question on your Marlboro 2.0 roll-out.
Can you give us a sense of what percentage of your Marlboro 2.0 is rolled out? Is it complete I guess? And is there typically a lag before you see the full impact of this on your overall Marlboro share? Well I think we're seeing the impact already.
Yeah.
And all the indications we have from the markets where we're already one or more years in the market is all the fundamentals are improving; the perception is improving; the image is improving.
So it has worked very well and actually beyond what I personally expected.
So I don't know exactly weighted where we are.
We're in 100 markets.
I think it's 95% of the volume of Marlboro already or something like that.
And everywhere we've seen positive results.
And if you remember this is not just packaging.
It's the whole communication of consumers product improvement that were extremely well received by our consumers and also competitive smokers.
Okay.
So trends are increasing.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Growe of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Chris.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
I wanted to ask first of all in relation to volume which did weaken a little bit sequentially in the fourth quarter – there are some unique factors that are leading to that – and if you look at the strong performance in the first nine months.
As you look – as you move into 2016 you've indicated global volumes down about the same rate as they were last year.
Are there any markets in particular where we should kind of keep a watch out here? I mean we've taken out the big ones so like Russia Indonesia.
Are those the ones you see being kind of the weakest here to lead out the year but improving throughout 2016? Yeah.
I mean if we look overall clearly Russia as I said we have to make some assumptions.
Last year we're a bit positively surprised.
I hope that's going to be the case but we have to assume some decline in Russia.
So we assumed as I said around 9% at this stage.
On the positive side clearly Korea because last year we had quite impressive decline about – apples-to-apples I would say 20% which this year hopefully we're not going to see.
And clearly we see improving trends during the year.
So that's on the positive side.
We had a good upside in Turkey last year because of the illicit trade reduction plus increased consumption.
I don't think we are going to see the same increment in Turkey this year obviously.
But as the year unfolds we will know better.
In markets where we're less impacted clearly is India that had a big decline last year because of excise and VAT increases.
But as you know we have minimal exposure there and Brazil.
And Brazil is likely to continue this year obviously because we had a combination of VAT tax increases in certain states because they have autonomy to decide about the VAT rates and also an excise tax increase that comes in two tranches in Brazil; one in May and one in December.
So that's where I see it.
Now Indonesia again is a bit early days.
As you know on one side we had a slightly soft economy.
Price the pass on of the excise tax in the previous year of about 5% of price increase equivalent.
This year it's 7.5% not dramatic but slightly higher.
And on the other side we have – on the positive side we have minimum wage increases in the range of 11%.
So how this is going to pay at the end of the year is very difficult to predict.
Conservatively we have assumed some decline but we'll see if that materializes or not.
And that's for the key markets.
I don't know if I said that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That was helpful.
Thank you.
I just had one quick follow-up which is in relation to generally the global macro uncertainty some of the risks we've seen in some of these key markets.
And you have some pricing going up at a healthy rate just due to excise tax pass-along.
Are you seeing any changes in elasticity? Is it too early to tell for that? But I'm just curious if we're seeing kind of that weaker consumer reacting negatively to price increases in some of the key markets where you're taking those now.
I mean look I must say that I'm positively surprised by elasticities rather than the opposite actually.
They come more on our side than I thought.
So now again some of the emerging markets we have to watch as the economy weakens but we don't see many – any signs – I'm sorry – of this occurring at this stage.
So we'll keep you abreast of how this is going during the year.
But I think we baked this in our forecast for total market for the year of to 2% to 2.5%.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's very encouraging.
Have you said what percentage of your pricing you have in place already for the year? I would say about 50% slightly higher than that at this stage.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you for the time.
You're welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer of Cowen.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Vivien.
So my first question has to do with Latin America in terms of the cadence of the local currency profit growth.
The profit growth had been quite robust for the first nine months of the year and it did decelerate.
I was wondering if you could just – and on an easy comp So I was wondering if you could just expand on that a little bit please.
I'm sorry.
I'm not sure...
So I'm showing that you had very strong double-digit profit growth in Latin America in the first nine months of the year that ended up resulting in full-year very robust local currency profit growth.
But in the fourth quarter your local currency profit growth was plus 1% so it kind of – it's a big difference from what we have been seeing.
Profit there is costs.
It's more a question of costs rather than...
And Argentina.
Yeah.
And we had the Argentina devaluation as well.
That was reflected in the last quarter.
But in terms of pricing there is no difference.
We had regular price increases in Argentina.
We're taking pricing in Mexico.
But there is sometimes difference in timing of price increases so that can explain some swings.
I would not be reading these quarters with religiousness I would say.
Okay? So the cost increase in Argentina is a one-time factor or do we think – is that something that kind of persists for the next three quarters? More of that – sorry – Jacek.
It's more of the one factor.
You should also look for the Latin comparing the Q4 of the last year of 2014 because I think there was a different pattern of the shipment ahead of the tax price change in Mexico.
Yeah.
So this might swing around.
Understood.
Thank you very much.
My second question has to do with the EU and with plain packaging.
You called out some investments in the UK but you also called out negative mix shift.
So I'm wondering if you could just expand on some of the changes that you're making in terms of your go to market as well as an update on the market landscape itself if it's downtrading just in your portfolio or are we already starting to see downtrading in the UK? Well first of all in the UK in particular we've essentially taken back our distribution from Imperial.
So in the quarter we had particularly particular specific expenses due to this take-back and double cost obviously because we're still paying material and we're building up our own distribution.
I don't see any acceleration in downtrading in the UK in terms of trends.
And if we try to correlate this to plain packaging clearly there's not yet plain packaging in the UK I would say.
But in general because I get very often this question is UK going to become Australia.
The first thing is the impact of plain packaging on Australia downtrading is extremely difficult to estimate if any because it's much more a question of pricing.
Because if you remember the margins at the bottom end of the market in Australia are still extremely high compared to the UK.
So I personally do not see an acceleration of the trends in the UK even if eventually plain packaging is implemented because there are already brands at very low margins at the bottom end of the market.
And I don't think we'll see an acceleration of the trends.
Now in the EU in general I don't see much downtrading here.
Actually the premium segment is stable and we grew share with Marlboro.
So overall I'm very positive about the trends in the European Union.
And do not forget that we have a portfolio with Marlboro L&amp;M and Chesterfield that covers quite comfortably all price segments.
So I think we're fairly confident about the prospects of the business in the European Union.
That's very helpful.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Good morning.
Hi Michael.
Just want to come back to Japan.
Can you confirm that I'm reading this right? Your market share table in the release that's just cigarettes; that doesn't include any sales from iQOS.
That's correct? This is correct.
And so would it be closer to flat market share if iQOS were included? And where do you see iQOS taking share from? Is it more from your own brands or from competitors? Well we would see obviously some correction.
And we should not forget that in particularly in the last quarter there were competitive introductions in the market.
And clearly because of the support of iQOS as we expand it nationally we had no activities on our portfolio of cigarettes during that quarter okay.
So that explains both the comparisons in terms of competitive pipelining and us focusing on iQOS the higher decline in the share.
Now from what we know today approximately 40% of the people that switch and adopt iQOS come from our own brands which is higher obviously than our market share in Japan.
But I hope this is correct because we are primarily targeting our own consumers as well and it's Marlboro.
So that's a little bit the proportion we see today 40% coming from our portfolio and 60% from competitive brands.
And does having iQOS in the market influence any of your thinking on pricing on your cigarette brands and maybe give you more flexibility there? No.
This is completely separate okay.
I don't see any.
Okay.
And then just on Indonesia the machine-made full flavor certainly has been that segment's been gaining steam.
You called out machine-made in general as part of your momentum there.
But certainly in full flavor you're underrepresented.
Can you be a little more specific on any of your progress there in gaining a bigger footing in that segment? Well we are getting some part of the segment clearly due to the success of Dji Sam Soe Magnum and Blue which are in that segment.
We introduced last year U Bold which is a full-flavor extension of U Mild that is doing well in the areas that was launched and we plan to expand now nationally.
And one of the things that shows the segment growing faster is that some of the introductions I've described previously 20 packs for the price of 16 are labeled as full flavor but they are more low tar and nicotine product okay.
So there is some artificial boosting of that segment.
But overall we are making progress in that segment and we have plans to further expand our presence in the segment clearly.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
And then just lastly on margins.
Obviously two years in a row now you've had significant spending increases in the fourth quarter.
Obviously you've called out that some of the items are transitory but can you give a sense of where margins go from here? Do you expect a return to levels two years ago anytime soon? Is there a little bit of a new normal? What's the right way to put the margin environment in context? Well as I said in my remarks we expect OCI to grow above our 6% to 8% range next year.
So obviously margins will expand.
And we expect and we're targeting margin expansion in every – so yes you will see a margin increase.
And specifically you said in every region as well? Yes.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Marshall of Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> My first question I just want to talk a little bit about your cash flow and allocation.
As you highlighted in your prepared remarks you've done a great job keeping your cash flow steady despite the foreign currency headwinds.
If you take the midpoint of your EPS guidance for 2016 though your dividend payout is around 95%.
So I was just curious if there's a level where you start to get a little uncomfortable; and kind of what lengths would you go to on the dividend to just ensure that you could at least maintain if not increase it slightly like we saw last year? Well as I said we will not decrease the dividend okay? So yes it is a high payout ratio undoubtedly.
And given currencies it will remain high for the next couple of years no matter what.
I hope over time as we grow profit and we grow cash flow we'll come back to more normal levels.
And if the currencies stabilize clearly we'll recover much faster the return to normality I would say.
But as we always said dividends is sacrosanct and we will go to a large extent to maintain the dividend.
Inc.</span></strong> That's very helpful.
Just out of curiosity is the 65% payout ratio – over the long term obviously – is that kind of still in play? Or is that something that's kind of been pushed out a little bit just given the currency situation? Look this discussion about 65% as I said is a bit theoretical short term because we will remain no matter what happens unless the currencies turn back to half of where they are today compared to...
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Dollars as to half.
Once that the situation becomes a bit more clear on where we'll go directionally then we'll revisit this payout ratio and we may want to modify it okay.
That kind of theoretical discussion today.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Yeah.
Very good.
Thank you.
And then just finally I just wanted to dig a little bit into the Philippines.
It sounds like you're happy with the progress there.
Even with volume down as much as it is for the category it sounds like you're more than happy to trade the bottom end volume for the share gains on Marlboro and it's at the top end.
So just curious if you could give a little bit of color on how you feel about the Philippines.
Have we turned a corner there and we're going to continue to see improvement? Or is there still more work to do in that market? Thank you very much.
We definitely see improvement undoubtedly.
Pricing at the bottom has increased; compliance is increasing quite significantly.
The back-stops have helped.
And as the – finally as of next year we are in the final stage of merging the two tiers.
Over time we have the possibility to unleash the profitability of the market also by growing Marlboro price.
So overall the prospects are extremely good in my view touch wood.
And it's pretty clear that with these kind of margins of price increases at the bottom you will have some total market decline temporarily because it's 50% price increase over one-and-a-half-year period.
So you would expect some market decline.
But overall I think it looks pretty good as I said.
So I'm very happy with what's happening in the Philippines.
Inc.</span></strong> Perfect.
Thank you very much.
Appreciate it.
You're welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Owen Bennett of Nomura.
Afternoon guys.
Just a quick one from me.
I was just wondering in terms of projections for Indonesian industry volumes next year because I know you were saying 1% to 3% over the medium term.
I was just wondering if you could be a bit more specific now and for fiscal year 2016.
Thank you.
Yes.
As I said it's a slightly different forecast Indonesia at the beginning of the year.
My view is yes there is a little bit of pricing higher pricing this year because of a higher tax.
Last year we had a 5% tax pass on.
This year we're 7.5%.
The economy is a bit softer but on the other side minimum wages went up 11%.
So how this is going to unfold is difficult for me to forecast.
We have assumed conservative some slight market decline.
Whether this materializes or not we'll know over the few months as the pass on of the prices evolves.
And that's how I see the total market for the month.
Okay.
Cool.
Thanks very much.
Long term you're right.
That's the way we look at the market 1% to 3% growth.
Cool.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Leinster of Berenberg.
Gossler &amp; Co.
KG (United Kingdom)</span></strong> Good morning gentlemen.
Just a question on costs.
I think you mentioned earlier on that there was some favorable leaf costs tow acetate and packaging.
In dollar terms could you give some indication of where those major costs are actually headed? Well I think overall we see stability in leaf prices.
And on clove prices we have some favorability year-to-year but we should not forget that we run longer inventories.
So on average you see the impact in the years to come.
So the outlook there in terms of leaf and clove is pretty good.
And the clove crops were fairly large so we could secure sufficient inventories at lower prices.
Our overall cost as I said only including RRPs should be in the range of 1% probably slightly below.
So we see a moderation clearly in the cost going forward.
Now 1% of the total cost base based on 2015 – sorry – is $150 million.
That's what it is okay? Gossler &amp; Co.
KG (United Kingdom)</span></strong> And secondly on the iQOS clearly when you launched in Japan and Italy you'd managed to secure somewhat favorable tax treatment of HeatSticks vis-à-vis combustible cigarettes.
And I was wondering given your recent launches have you managed to achieve a similar sort of negotiated settlement with Switzerland and Russia and various other countries you've launched into? Switzerland for sure.
Russia is still in discussion.
But in the vast majority of the markets we have launched it's lower rates than cigarettes.
Gossler &amp; Co.
KG (United Kingdom)</span></strong> And is that actually – are you now actually pricing those HeatSticks below cigarettes or are you still actually pricing at the same level in those markets? At this stage we price parity with Marlboro except for Switzerland where we are slightly lower.
And in Russia where we use Parliament and Marlboro and we're about the normal Parliament price.
So we work with different pricing models and different go-to-market models of this type and clearly with larger tool of best practices so we accelerate future deployment and also improve cost efficiency as we become a bit more intelligent about how these products with the markets.
Gossler &amp; Co.
KG (United Kingdom)</span></strong> Thanks.
And lastly just can you give us a update on where the legal challenges are to plain packaging? And indeed is there any update on the Ukrainian-led WTO dispute? Okay.
Basically this year is an important year because as you have mentioned of the pending cases we have WTO; that the decision should come towards the second half of the year.
And we have the UK High Court which should rule before May maybe earlier.
So we'll know these important outcomes in the course of this year.
So that's where we stand in terms of the pending cases at this stage.
Gossler &amp; Co.
KG (United Kingdom)</span></strong> Okay.
But is there anything to add to the sort of WTO dispute? Has that been taken forward? Sorry? Gossler &amp; Co.
KG (United Kingdom)</span></strong> Is there anything to add with regards to the WTO dispute? Has there been any particular...
Well it's a normal process that is followed.
Gossler &amp; Co.
KG (United Kingdom)</span></strong> Right.
There is a lot of interest from what we understand but we're not in the proceedings obviously because it's between Member States so...
Gossler &amp; Co.
KG (United Kingdom)</span></strong> Okay.
So we'll see how this unfolds.
Gossler &amp; Co.
KG (United Kingdom)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Your final question comes from the line of Erik Bloomquist of Haitong Securities.
Hi.
I was wondering if you could just comment on the outlook in Australia.
I mean the Prime Minister's been talking about continuing the 12.5% excise tax increases that have dented Australian volumes.
Does that sound like a real risk or will there be some fiscal sensibility in the light of rising illicit trade in your view? Thanks.
Look there are discussions of this nature and clearly our explanations to the government is that they should put some stop in this out-of-cycle excise tax increases.
This year we have the last one.
Now despite all this tax increases which as you know are pretty substantial because sometimes they are more than one Australian dollar per pack on 20s equivalent the total market was down only 2.6% in 2015.
And I think that has remarkable elasticity.
Now downtrading has continued although recently at a lower pace.
And as far as we are concerned our share has stabilized finally.
We have increased our segment share for the discount segment so we're in a position to influence the segment.
And essentially I believe – I mean we also announced a price increase today in Australia.
So the way I see Australia is it has been a slight drag on our OCI this year much much less than last year.
Conservatively we forecast another small drag next year but we'll see now how this pricing unfolds.
So that's the situation in Australia.
Obviously our objective is not to have the excise tax increase out of the normal ones that are the CPI indexation.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I will now return the call to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you very much.
That concludes our call today.
If you have any follow-up questions please reach out to the Investor Relations team.
We're currently in Switzerland.
And as André mentioned earlier next presentation will be at the Cagney Consumer Conference on Wednesday February 17 and that will be webcast as well.
Thank you all for joining us.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
That does conclude the Philip Morris International Fourth Quarter 2015 Year-End Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.