Greetings and welcome to the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2011 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Becky Hickman Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Ms.
Hickman you may now begin.
Thank you Melissa.
Good morning.
I'd like to thank everyone for participating in this conference call and webcast to review our first quarter earnings recent developments and operating performance.
Our speakers today will be our Chairman and CEO Don Brandt; and our CFO Jim Hatfield.
Don Robinson who is President and Chief Operating Officer of APS is also here with us.
Before I turn the call over to our speakers I need to cover a few details with you.
First the slides we refer to today are available on our Investor Relations website along with our earnings release supplemental information on our earnings variances and quarterly operating statistics the webcast and the Form 8-K filed this morning.
The slides contain reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Please note that all of our references to per share amounts today will be after income taxes and based on diluted shares outstanding.
Also it is my responsibility to advise you that this call and our slides contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and the company assumes no obligation to update these statements.
Because the actual results may differ materially from expectations we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements.
Please refer to the forward-looking statements contained in our 2010 Form 10-Q which was filed this morning as well as the MD&amp;A section which identifies risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
A replay of this call will be available on our web site <a href="http://www.pinnaclewest.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.pinnaclewest.com</u></a> for the next 30 days.
It will also be available by telephone through May 6.
At this point I'll turn the call over to Jim.
Thank you Becky.
The topics I will discuss today are outlined on slide four.
First I'll review the consolidated first quarter results and discuss the main variances from last year’s corresponding quarter.
Second I'll provide a brief update on the status and outlook for the Arizona economy.
Third I'll discuss our 2011 earnings guidance and lastly I will close with brief comments on our financing activities in these.
Slide five summarizes our reported and on-going earnings for the quarter.
On a GAAP basis for this year’s first quarter we reported a consolidated net loss attributable to common shareholders of $15 million or $0.14 per share compared with a net loss of $6 million or $0.06 per share for the prior year's first quarter.
Our on-going earnings decreased $0.21 per share for the 2011 first quarter.
We’ve consolidated on-going loss of $15 million or $0.14 per share versus on-going earnings of $7 million or $0.07 per share for the comparable quarter a year ago.
Slide six contains a reconciliation of our first quarter GAAP EPS to our ongoing earnings.
The amounts for both quarters exclude the results related to our discontinued operations substantially comprised of the operations of our real estate business on core.
My remaining comments on the quarter will focus on on-going results.
Moving to slide seven you will see the variances that drove the change in quarterly on-going EPS.
First an increase in our regulated electricity segment gross margin added $0.04 per share compared with the prior year first quarter.
Several pluses and minuses comprise this net variance and I will cover those items in more detail on the next slide.
Second higher operations on maintenance expenses decreased earnings by $0.10 per share.
The increase largely reflects higher duration cost primarily due to the plan timing and scope of maintenance at two of our gas-fired combined-cycle generation plants.
I’ll give additional detail on the timing of O&amp;M for our planned outages in a few moments.
This change in O&amp;M excludes expenses related to the renewable energy standard or RES and similar regulatory programs which are offset by comparable revenue amounts.
Also we have excluded $0.16 per share of expenses related to settlement in this year’s first quarter of certain prior period transmission rights away associated with the Four Corners Power Plant.
These costs were offset by revenue to be received from Southern Calif.
Edison with (inaudible) related transmission line from APS.
So there is no financial impact from the settlement.
Third favorable resolution of tax matters in a prior period which did not recur in the first quarter of 2011 decreased earnings by $0.08 per share.
Fourth higher infrastructure costs decreased earnings by $0.06 per share reflecting increases in property taxes and depreciation.
Finally the net impact of all other items decreased earnings by a $0.01 per share.
Turning to slide eight composition of the net increase in our regulated electricity gross margin.
Total regulated segment gross margin was up 4% per share compared with 2010 quarter.
The components of that increase were as follows.
Higher usage by APS' customers compared with the first quarter a year ago increased our quarterly results by $0.03 per share.
Weather-normalized retail kilowatt-hour sales were up 1.2% in the quarterly comparison after reflecting the effects of our ACC approved energy efficiency and demand-side management programs.
This was the first time since the third quarter of 2008; we have had higher overall retail kilowatt-hour sales in the first time since the fourth quarter 2007 that our residential customer's average usage has increased.
Also we had 0.4% customer growth in the quarter in addition to higher usage per customer.
I'll provide more on the State of the Arizona economy momentarily.
Weather effects improved earnings by $0.03 per share.
This year's first quarter was cooler than normal with residential heating degree-days higher than normal by 17%.
Higher line extension fees recorded as revenues increased gross margin by $0.01 per share.
The net effect of lower transmission rate and other items decreased our results by $0.03 per share.
Moving to slide nine I want to discuss the timing on an annual basis for planned O&amp;M for fossil generation outages for this year and last year.
O&amp;M as we indicated earlier was impacted primarily by planned outages at two of our gas-fired combined-cycle power plants.
On the slide you see the spread of our O&amp;M expense for overall of the fossil fleet in 2010 as compared to the expected expense for 2011.
We anticipate our spin on overalls in 2011 will be about the same as in 2010.
With that said we plan and successfully executed on about half of our overall dollars in the first quarter of 2011 compared to 20% during the same period in 2010.
So while the year-over-year comparison for the quarter get you one impression we're actually on track with operating expenses for 2011 and we plan no change to guidance.
Turning to slide 10 and looking at our fundamental growth outlook in Arizona economy in the first quarter of this year we continue to see signs of stability in the Arizona economy.
As shown on the side month-over-month non-farm job growth has continued at a slow positive pace.
On a more encouraging note we have seen stronger consumer spending as reflected in an increased rate of growth for Arizona retail sales.
While these trends indicate that the Arizona economy has headed in the right direction we must remain cognizant of the significant headwinds that continue.
Unemployment remains high and they can see rates in housing and commercial real estate have only just begun to retreat from their peaks of last year.
We believe the situation will continue to restrain new construction and higher levels of growth for at least two to three years.
Over the long-term though we remain confident in Arizona’s fundamentals.
We expect customer growth in usage to return to stronger levels as the national and state economic environments improve.
Although we experienced growth in both customers and usage per customer in the first quarter I will now not jump to any conclusions that we have started a significant upward growth trend.
In 2011 we expect growth in customers in kilowatt-hour sales of about 1%.
Looking at the next several years we expect annual customer growth to average about 1.7% for 2011 through 2013.
Additionally we expect our average annual weather normalized retail sales in kilowatt-hours to be relatively flat in 2011 through 2013 primarily due to APS’ energy efficiency programs offsetting a modest recovery in the economy.
So turning to our earnings outlook I would point you to slide 11.
In terms of results year-to-date we are on track to meet and we are affirming our consolidated ongoing earnings guidance for 2011 of $3 to $3.15 per share.
For your reference a list of key assumptions and factors underlying our 2011 outlook is included in the appendix in today’s slides.
Additionally as we stated in our prior call the 2011 outlook includes an expected contribution from our AZ Sun Program of about $0.03 to $0.04 per share.
In terms of 2011 we intend to share with you the major drivers for 2012 sometime after our general rate case is filed with the commission on June 1 of this year.
However we will not provide 2012 earnings guidance while the rate case is pending.
Before I turn the call over to Don I want to comment on liquidity.
APS in the first quarter with no short-term debt outstanding and has ample liquidity.
As a result we are comfortable with our ability to plan APS’ capital expenditure program with no new equity until 2012 at the earliest.
With that I'll turn the call over to Don Brandt.
Don? Thanks Jim.
Since our last earnings call we made distinct progress in key areas and continued our track record of operation excellence.
Today I'll address four areas one our renewable and other generation investments; two environmental compliance; three rate regulation matters; and finally four recent operating performance.
Beginning with renewable resources in our AZ Sun development activities we are on track with plans to significantly increase the amount of renewable energy we provided our customers.
Investing in these resources make sense for our customers their communities the environment and our shareholders.
We have a strong emphasis on a solar power because Arizona has some of the best solar conditions in the world.
Since the beginning of the year our most noteworthy progress related to renewable energy has been on APS' AZ Sun Program.
The company has planned to develop and own 100 megawatts of photovoltaic utility scale solar plants in Arizona.
The appendix to our slides today contains a summary of the AZ Sun Program and the projects committed today.
We have announced projects with a total deliverable capacity of 83 megawatts and an estimated capital investment of $384 million.
Additional procurement initiatives are underway to fill out the remaining 17 megawatts of the program.
Construction and other development activities are now under way and we expect to place the first 45 megawatts of the AZ Sun Program in service for customers later this year.
Turning to the status of our Four Corners plan and other environmental compliance matters last quarter I discussed our multi-part plant to address several challenges facing over Four Corners coal-fired plant in northwestern New Mexico.
The plan presents a creative solution to address new environment regulations and maintains our well-balanced resource portfolio.
A summary of the plan is included in the appendix to our slides.
To recap the plan APS has agreed to buy Southern California Edison's 739 megawatt interest in units 4 and 5 of Four Corners.
This opportunity exists because So Calif.
Edison has indicated it must exit its interest in the plant by 2016 to comply with California law.
The purchase price is $294 million.
The parties target closing on the transaction in late 2012.
If the purchase transaction moves forward as planned we intend to shutdown Four Corners units1 2 and 3 which totaled 560 megawatts in size and are wholly owned by APS.
These units are older and less efficient than units 4 and 5 in compliance with new regulations issued by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency would be very expensive for them.
The net result of the anticipated acquisition and closure is 179 megawatt increase in APS' share with Four Corners.
We estimate that APS' capital expenditures for environmental compliance for our revised plant share will be about $300 million cost primarily incurred to install selective catalytic reduction equipment or SCRs as they're called on units four and five as the EPA's proposed rules would require.
These expenditures are far less in what APS would make if it were instead to bring our existing interest in all five of the plants units in the compliance with the proposed EPA rules.
An approach that would require capital investments (inaudible) an estimated $620 million.
The acquisition requires approval by Arizona California and federal regulators and other government agencies.
It is also contingent upon the extensions of the land lease with Navajo Nation and the coal supply contract.
During the first quarter we made progress towards such approvals on several fronts.
The land lease extension through 2041 was approved by the Navajo Nation and now awaits final approval by the U.S.
Department of the Interior.
The deadline by which other participants must have exercised or write a first refusal to purchase a portion of Southern California Edison's share has passed and APS remains the one – excuse me the only purchaser.
The Arizona Corporation Commission has scheduled a hearing on the matter to begin on July 14 and coal contract negotiations also continue.
We believe our plan has substantial merits economically environmentally and socially.
Our proposal clearly provides significant savings given that the purchase price plus environmental compliance cost combined for APS' revised share are less than the cost of environmental compliance for APS' existing ownership in the plant.
Our plan has substantial benefits in other important areas as well.
We remain hopeful that APS in Southern California Edison will obtain the requisite approvals in a timely manner.
Now let me touch for a few minutes on other EPA compliance developments.
In March the EPA proposed rules to regulate mercury and certain other air emissions at coal-fired power plants.
The proposed rules were inline with our expectations and we anticipate that they will be finalized in late 2011.
All APS-owned plants except Four Corners units 1 2 and 3 and one unit at Cholla power plant are equipped with scrubbers and bag houses and thus able to comply with the proposed rule.
We currently estimate that installation scrubbers at Cholla will cost about $89 million and will be completed by 2015.
Also in March the EPA proposed a rule on cooling water intake structures at existing power plants which is sometimes referred to as the Section 316(b) rule.
The proposed rule is subject to a 90-day public comment period and we expect that a final rule will be issued in mid-2012 of APS' existing power plants only Four Corners and Navajo would be impacted by this rule if finalized.
And we are now analyzing the nature of the impacts on potential cost of compliance.
Turning to rate regulation matters now we continue our work with the Arizona Corporation Commission and stakeholders in an effort to gain common understanding on various regulatory and operational issues and the fine solutions that balanced the interests of customers shareholders and other stakeholders alike.
We look forward to continuing this dialogue and making further progress with respect to our states regulatory environment.
We've also been preparing for APS' 2011 retail rate case filing.
As a noted on our last call APS filed a notice on February 1 with the Arizona Corporation Commission indicating that we intend to file our rate case on June 1.
The primary objectives of our rate case filings will be to recover costs in investments.
We have made to serve our customers and to build upon the support of regulatory mechanisms established in APS' 2009 regulatory settlement.
Required by the settlement the 120-day notice filing was design to inform stakeholders is a key proposal that APS likely will include in its upcoming rate case and to facilitate timely resolution of the proceeding.
Some of the proposals in the notice include a decoupling mechanism post test year plant additions to rate base and an infrastructure tracking adjusted mechanism to recover future generation and environmental capital cost.
For your convenience the summary of the proposals is provided in the appendix to our slides.
Earlier this month we made our 2011 filings for rate changes related to transmission services.
The total adjustments to our transmission rate will be $44 million calculated pestilence to the formal rate approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
Of these amounts $6 million relates to wholesale transactions with other utilities and will become effective on June 1.
We have filed an application with the ACC requesting that the $38 million related to transmission services for APS’ retail customer that become effective on July 1.
Looking at our operating performance our base load coal and nuclear continues to perform well.
Our coal-fired plants continue their top tier performance.
In the first quarter our coal fleet posted a capacity factor of 78% which is well above the most recently available industry average of 65%.
During the first quarter our Palo Verde nuclear facility operated at a 99% capacity factor.
Unit 2 is currently in a plan refuelling outage that began on April 2.
We plan two refuelling outages in 2011 to last 35 to 40 days each a time frame that reflects sound planning and execution as well as the benefits of our work over the past two years installing rapid refuelling packages and replacing reactor vessel heads.
On April 21 the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission approved 20-year license extension for each of Palo Verde's three units.
This was a major achievement that will result in significant cost savings and other benefits for APS' customers and the entire southwest from the United States over the extended lifetime of plant.
Obviously the nuclear industry is at the top of many minds following the recent tragic events in Japan.
So a few comments on this subject remitted today.
We strongly believe that Palo Verde is safe and that there are key differences between our plant and the Japanese situation including less susceptibility to external events like earthquakes and Tsunamis.
However we and the rest of the U.S.
nuclear fleet have been carefully studying the developments in Japan.
We’re keenly aware that there will be lessons learned from that event that will strengthen the safety of our nation's nuclear fleet.
As the operator of the largest nuclear plant in the United States our mission for Palo Verde is just operate safely and efficiently for the long-term.
Turning to the quality of our customer service.
In February J.D.
Power and Associates released results of its 2010 business customer survey.
I'm pleased that APS continues its record of performance excellence and overall customer satisfaction.
In the most recent results APS ranked fourth nationally among 45 large investor-owned electric utilities.
More specific to our region we were rated second among 10 investor-owned utilities in the West.
We also recently received recognition for achievements in other areas.
Specifically for the second consecutive year APS was awarded the EPA's highest honor for continued leadership and protect the environment through energy-efficiency programs.
The energy stars sustained excellence award recognized two APS home programs for promoting energy efficiency and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
In addition Pinnacle West was ranked 15 in Corporate Responsibility magazine’s 2011 list of 100 Best Corporate Citizens.
This award was especially meaningful to us because it recognized our performance in many environmental social and governance areas.
To wrap it up our company's goal is to achieve top-tier performance and we constantly work toward that objective in every facet of our business.
Going-forward we are committed to maintaining operational excellence in achieving superior financial results by concentrating on our core electric utility business.
That concludes our prepared remarks today.
And operator at this time we'd pleased to take any questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
On the Four Corners upon approval when will the $294 million go into rate base and then on the requisite compliance spending of $300 million what is the timing of that and how will you see the recovery? Hey Kevin this is Jim.
How are you? Fine.
Thanks.
On the first question what we've ask for in or will ask for in this rate case is an infrastructure adjust of whatever the time once have been assuming we are successful on getting that and a late third quarter close Fore Corners in 2012 it would be relatively short timeframe from a regulatory lag perspective half of the year or less depending upon the timing.
So that would be a fairly quick recovery of the cost.
In terms of the $300 million an environmental we would expect that we’ll begin spending that and planning for the 12 13 timeframe and the spin would be sort of 14 to 16 timeframe.
Okay.
Will that be the same for Tyra as well for spending? Well the Tyra will be doing by I think Don said 2015 so that would be in that.
If 15 it’s complete you expect a couple of years of planning and few expenditure or so.
Okay.
Then how economic are these plans to Arizona? What is the net benefit for Pinnacle West how important are these jobs to the Navajo tribe and how competitive are these plants versus lets say new gas plant? We think the plants are very competitive and they are very critical from a job standpoint.
Here in Arizona the state as a whole and particularly to the Navajo Nation the Four Corners plant and the coalmine adjacent to the plant generate about 60% of the revenues for the Navajo Nation's general fund.
To give you a relative value Kevin I think Four Coroners 4 and 5 from a cost per megawatt hour basis about 15% less what the comparable capacity factor.
So that's the magnitude.
Okay thank you.
I'm sorry and then last question with regards to the timing of the rate case stop me if I am being too curious here but if I look forward to 2012 and the Arizona Commission reelection is somehow garners a ton of attention do you see (inaudible) all going up for reelection.
And second of all do you see any benefit to the commission perhaps this rate case is still going in early May in next year when the election starts? Well Kevin I can't speak for whether the commissioner’s are going to see for the election that's going to be up to them.
I think the general consensus thought as they will.
And we've kind of give a lot of thought to the timing spent of this case and the accelerated nature of this compared to prior our cases which we addressed as part of the settlement of the few years ago and I think that will be to our advantage going into this case.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ali Agha with Suntrust.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
First question I wanted to clarify Jim or Don in some of your prior charts you've given us your rate-based growth numbers ’11 to ’13 I believe but that 13 number include the purchase – the extra purchase of Four Corners in there? Hi Ali this is Jim.
Yes it does.
It does.
Okay.
Yeah.
Okay.
Second question I recall 2010 your actual ROE was about 9.3% that about the numbers shows me right.
Can you also remind us what is the embedded ROE in that ’11 guidance? Well Ali you’re correct.
It was 9.3% in 2010 and we're projecting at this point slightly under nine high eight for 2011.
Okay.
And the 2013 it's going to call the average rate-base it's about – is it 7.6 billion? I'm sorry what year? 2013.
2013 it’s will going to be 5% annualized growth.
So somewhere in the 7.35 billion range.
Okay.
That's the year-end or the average? That's the year-end.
That's the year-end.
Yeah.
And my last question Jim from an equity issuance perspective you said before the key for this equity issuance is to time it for the equity ratio for the next round of rate case increase.
As you said on the call is there a contract – with the Four Corners investment and the other CapEx that that you’re going to spend on environmental will that require a separate meaningful external capital money or is that factored in your balances versus getting the equity ratio up for the next rate case? Well I think you're exactly right Ali and that we – the purposes of our equity issuance are to calibrate the capital structure for ratemaking purposes.
When we look at the Four Corners transaction these are the other sort of requirements for capital it’s just an incremental capital requirements.
So we would not do two transactions to satisfy that we'd look at sort of just incremental on top of what was planned.
I see okay.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Stefka Gerova with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
I have two unrelated questions for you today.
First have you had any feedback from various stakeholders on your pre-filing notice in the APS rate case and do you have a view on what may be the more challenging issues in the case? Hey Stefka this is Jim.
How are you? Good how are you  Fine thank.
We've had ongoing dialogue with the stakeholders since probably middle of last year in terms of coming up to this case filing this case is no secret.
It was really contemplated by all the parties in my opinion from the last settlement.
The feedback we've gotten has been consistent throughout the process we've been talking about decoupling we've been talking about some sort of mechanism that recover cost in the years were not in a rate case.
So I think we've had very good dialogue with the stakeholders at this point.
As I go into the case I think you're probably any time in go-forward rating base rate increase there is always some...
[Technical Difficulty] Miss.
Hickman.
Yes ma'am.
Your line is back in life.
Thank you.
We apologize for the technical difficulty.
Stefka? I guess I missed the part of answer I'm not sure if everybody did.
But I'll move on to my second question which relates to slide nine I was wondering if you could quantify the plants fossil fleet outage O&amp;M that you expect for 2011? On slide 9 so dollar magnitude they are both in the – about $40 million range.
And that's consistent with what you had seen in 2010? Correct.
It's really stepping just the timing of the plant outages and based on the plant life cycle.
Sure.
Completely understood.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jim von Riesemann with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Hey Don.
Hey Jim.
How are you? Good.
How are you doing? I am doing okay.
Could you guys just help me out with bridging your earnings expectations for the balance of the year I look at a 12 months earnings figure and if I take like the last three quarters of 2010 its 297 and then with this quarter its 283 but can you just refresh our memories with what the major drivers are to get to your 323 ’15 because I'm sitting at a trailing ’12 283 right now? Sure you have obviously the first quarter of this year significantly impacted by the fossil timing.
So you really get the last three months of last year – half of this year has been in the first quarter.
Obviously the difference from last year and this year would be retail sales growth of about 1% net of the EE and DE impact we see a little bit more in terms of line extension revenue we saw that in the first quarter.
And we also have a transmission rate increase later this year expenses are fairly flat we’ll see some increase and obviously depreciation on property tax.
Those are really the major drivers on a year-to-year basis impacting 2011.
Do you care to give any guidance on a quarterly basis I know that’s not your practice but? We don't do that Jim and I'll tell you why and the first quarter was a great demonstration of that.
In the first and fourth quarters of the year with timing of outages and things like and it materially skews these quarters.
Right.
So we just look at our annual basis.
I understand.
And then just one modeling type question.
What was the quarter end rate base? You guys are handy.
I haven't looked at that but my guess would be that it’s about 6.5 billion roughly.
Thanks.
That's all I have.
Jim.
I might its Don I might add for the first quarter we're dead on with our plan and I don't know if that will help you but Jim when he referenced slide nine you want to make sure your – for Q2 and Q3 particularly that differential between the fossil O&amp;M in 2010 compared to the projected levels in 2011.
That I figured out but appreciate the color.
Okay.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Chin of Citigroup.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Brian.
I think you Jim you cut out right as you're beginning to respond to the earlier question about just sort of the interactions you had with interveners in the rate case in some of these proposed mechanisms I think to ask you to sort of repeat what you said I think that’s right when you start off the cut offs if you could just sort of add a little more color one more time?  Brian we’ve had ongoing dialogue as you know since middle of last year with the stakeholders and in fact filing on June 1 like we planned to do its not a surprise to anybody and it was contemplated coming out in the settlement in 2009.
Since middle of last year we’ve been talking to the parties about the need of decoupling and in fact we got our commission files in December 5.
We’ve talked about our need to whether its infrastructure tracker whatever you want to call the ability to collect additional revenue in the – when we are in for a rate case I will say the significant infrastructure spend.
We talked about line extension and the things we have to do there and change of policy and we had 18 months post issuer plan and I think everybody sort of assumed that model works for purposes of the settlement.
So I think all along the dialogue has been very constructive very healthy nothing new to anybody in this case.
So all in all I would say the dialogue has been very positive.
Very good.
Thank you.
Operator: Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from Reza Hatefi with Decade Capital Management.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you very much.
Could you – I guess you mentioned earlier your customer gross guidance is 1.7% from ’11 to ’13 but load growth is kind of flattish.
Could you talk about – I guess I just thinking about from a earnings driver how that's going to work along with the energy efficiency I guess energy efficiency is rate based so you get a return on that but then you have customers gross but no-load gross so does that mean that gross in essence doesn't at earnings because there is no load or somehow because I just seeing some clarification on that? Sure.
I would be glad to answer that.
This is Jim.
You have our assumptions correct and the driver is of course the energy-efficiency standard in distributed energy standard in Arizona as we see it is offsetting kilowatt-hour sales growth in inherent and the customer growth rate.
We do not rate base energy efficiency cost those are a total pasture from an O&amp;M perspective.
And so yeah I think sales growth is really flat going forward and that’s why and I think all the parties agree the decoupling policy is the right policy for Arizona.
And then when you say it's in your O&amp;M do you sort of get one-to-one recovery on that and so excluding this extra O&amp;M sort of speak that gets recovered.
What should we assume is underlying O&amp;M growth over this timeframe?  Well we haven't talked about 2012 at this point and so I'm going to hold on from that.
I'll will just point back to – we've been fairly flat from an operating cost perspective over the last couple of years and our goal is to continue to focus on cost efficiency.
Okay.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
We have no further questions at this time.
I’d like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
Thank you Melissa and thank you everyone for joining us today.
Meanwhile if we have further detail or questions that you need answered about the company please call me or Geoff Wendt.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today teleconference.
You may disconnect your line at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Becky Hickman Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Ms.
Hickman you may now begin.
Thank you [Christine] and thank you everyone for participating in this conference call and webcast to review our second quarter earnings recent developments and operating performance.
Our speakers today will be our Chairman and CEO Don Brandt; and our CFO Jim Hatfield.
Don Robinson who is President and Chief Operating Officer of APS is also here with us.
Before I turn the call over to our speakers I need to cover a few details with you.
First the slides we refer to today are available on our Investor Relations website along with our earnings release supplemental information on our earnings variances and quarterly operating statistics the webcast and the Form 8-K filed this morning.
Please note that the slides contain reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Also all of our references to per share amount will be after income taxes and based on diluted shares outstanding.
It is my responsibility to advise you that this call and our slides contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and the company assumes no obligation to update these statements.
Because actual results may differ materially from expectations we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements.
Our second quarter of 2011 Form 10-Q was filed this morning.
Please refer to that document for the forward-looking statements as well as the MD&amp;A section which identifies risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
A replay of this call will be available on our website for the next 30 days.
It will also be available by telephone through August 9.
At this point I'll turn the call over to Jim.
Thank you Becky and good morning everyone.
The topics I will discuss today are outlined on slide four.
First I'll review the consolidated second quarter results and discuss the main variances from last year’s corresponding quarter.
Second I'll provide a brief update on the status and outlook for the Arizona economy.
Third I'll discuss our 2011 earnings guidance and lastly I will close with brief comments on our credit ratings liquidity and financing activities.
Slide five summarizes our reported and ongoing earnings for the quarter.
On a GAAP basis for this year second quarter we reported a consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders of $87 million or $0.79 per share compared with net income of $115 million or $1.7 per share for the prior year second quarter.
Our on-going earnings decreased $0.04 per share.
For the 2011 second quarter we’ve consolidated ongoing earnings of $86 million or $0.78 per share versus ongoing earnings of $89 million or $0.82 per share for the comparable quarter a year ago.
Slide six contains a reconciliation of our second quarter GAAP earnings per share to our ongoing earnings.
The amounts for both quarters exclude the results related to our discontinued operations.
The discontinued operations amounts relate primarily to APS energy services.
My remaining comments on the quarter will focus on the ongoing results.
Moving to slide seven you see the variances that drove the change in quarterly ongoing earnings per share.
First an increase in our regulated electricity segment gross margin added $0.01 per share compared with the prior year second quarter.
Several pluses and minuses comprise this net variance and I will cover those items in more detail on the next slide.
Second lower operations on maintenance expenses improved earnings by $0.03 per share.
The decrease largely reflects lower generation cost related to the timing and scope of planned outages at our fossil-fueled generating plants.
This change in O&amp;M excludes expenses related to the renewable energy standard or RES energy efficiency demand-side management and similar regulatory programs which are offset by comparable revenue amounts.
Third higher infrastructure related costs decreased earnings by $0.07 per share reflecting increases in property taxes of $0.05 per share and depreciation of $0.02 per share.
The property tax increase relates to higher property tax rate in 2011 versus 2010 as Counties raised rates to adjust their lower residential assessed valuations.
As Arizona’s largest property tax payer APS has been significantly impacted by this property tax rate shift.
Higher depreciation and amortization related to plant additions decreased earnings by $0.02 per share.
And finally the net impact of all other items decreased earnings by a penny per share.
Just to comment on property taxes.
Since 2008 we have seen assessed real estate values decline by approximately 20%.
Therefore counties increased tax rates to balance their budget.
The net result to APS is a double-whammy of stable utility assessed values and higher rates.
Also point out that property taxes are in 18 to 24 months lagging indicator and the declining real estate values of 2008 and 2009 are just now being reflected in property tax rates.
Turning to slide eight in the composition of net increase in our regulated electricity gross margin total regulated segment gross margin was up $0.01 per share compared with the 2010 quarter.
The components of that increase were as follows: Higher usage by APS's customers increased our quarterly results by $0.02 per share compared with the second quarter a year-ago.
Total weather normalized retail kilowatt-hour sales were up 0.7% in the quarterly comparison after reflecting the effects of our ACC approved energy efficiency and demand side management programs.
The increased retail sales reflect 0.3% customer growth as well as higher average usage per customer primarily by residential customers.
I'll provide more information on the Arizona economy momentarily.
Our line extension fees recorded as revenues increased gross margin by $0.01 per share.
The net effect of other miscellaneous items improved gross margin by a penny per share.
Milder weather in this year’s second quarter decreased earnings by $0.02 per share compared with the same period a year-ago.
Although the quarter-over-quarter comparison was minor it was one of the central issues for our quarterly results since last year’s second quarter reflected $0.15 per share from milder than normal weather.
Of course we always provide guidance on weather-normalized basis.
Now I’ll discuss some weather indicators in more detail on the next slide.
The last item impacting gross margin but the net effect of lower transmission rates of a penny per share which reflect the impact of the retail transmission cost adjustor rate decrease that became effective August 1<sup>st</sup> of 2010.
On slide nine we have summarized some of the relevant weather indicators for the quarterly comparison a combination of mild temperatures and dry weather negatively impacted our second quarter results by $0.17 per share compared to normal and that’s as previously reduced our quarterly earnings by $0.02 per share compared with last year's second quarter.
We recorded 375 residential cooling-degree days for the 2011 second quarter which was 27% below normal and about 2% below last year's second quarter.
For this year's May and June combined we had the lowest number of cooling-degree days since 1999 with only about half the number of days that normally are above 105 degrees.
In addition for the second quarter of this year we had the second-lowest average humidity recorded in the last 20 years averaging 14% compare with normal humidity of 18% this dry period translated into 50% more days than normal with average humidity below 15%.
Unlike last year for July the mild trend continued with no real hot stretch of weather in a month we have included a slide and appendix that contains quarterly pre-tax gross margin effects of weather variances versus normal for the past couple of years.
Turning to Slide 10 and looking at our fundamental growth outlook in Arizona economy.
Economic growth in Arizona continued to improve in the second quarter although modestly.
As shown on Slide 10 month-over-month non-farm job growth has remained choppy but positive as businesses began adding more temporary help and we saw some expansion in the manufacturing and financial services sectors.
Second quarter job growth in Arizona was 2% above the national average of 1.4%.
Additionally consumer spending rebalanced significantly reflecting some recovery from extraordinarily large pullback we observed during 2008 2009.
While these trends indicate that the Arizona economy is headed in the right direction we must remain cognizant of the significant headwinds that continue.
Unemployment remains high and vacancy rates and housing and commercial real estate have only just begun to retreat from their peaks of last year.
Despite lagging residential valuations for tax purposes we’ve seen fairly stable home price in the Metro Phoenix since early 2009 and viewed as an indication at new housing supplies and balance with demand although a very low levels for both.
Weak demand for housing is mirrored in the commercial segment as well where gains in occupancies for retail and office space are marginal at best.
We believe that this situation will continue to restrain new construction and higher levels of growth for at least two to three years.
Over the long-term though we remain confident in Arizona’s fundamentals.
We expect customer growth in usage to return to stronger levels as the national and state economic environments improve.
Although we experienced growth in both customers and usage per customer in the second quarter we view these changes are short-term in nature and a relaxation from the recession related conservation for the past two years.
Looking at the next several years we currently expect annual customer growth to average about 1.3% from 2011 to 2013 while our average annual weather normalized retail sales in kilowatt-hours will be relatively flat from 2011 to 2013 primarily due to APS’ energy efficiency programs offsetting a modest recovery in the economy.
Now turning to our earnings outlook I’d point you to Slide 11.
We expect our consolidated ongoing earnings for 2011 will be in the range of $2.75 to $2.90 per share.
As previously discussed this revision to guidance is driven almost entirely by mild weather in the first several months of the year.
If not for the impact of weather we would not have revised guidance for 2011 at this time.
Our 2011 updated outlook assumes actual weather for the first several months a normal weather patterns for the remainder of the year.
Also we updated our expense estimates for a higher estimated property taxes partially offset by lower estimated interest expense.
For your reference an updated list of key assumptions of factors underlying our revised 2011 outlook is included in the appendix of today’s slides.
On Slide 12 you see our current credit rates.
On June 21 Standard &amp; Poor raised its corporate credit ratings on APS and the parent company as well as APS’s senior unsecured debt rating to BBB up from BBB minus.
Also S&amp;P raised its short-term commercial paper range for both entities to A2 up from A3 while maintaining its positive outlook.
S&amp;P’s rating in increase was a reflection of several important components.
The companies improved financial performance evidenced by stronger credit metrics the prospect of improving regulatory relationships our focus on cost control during the rate moratorium and our steady non-core assets to focus on our regulated operations.
We are pleased that S&amp;P recognizes the progress we have made today.
However it is imperative that we continue to execute operationally and financially.
I want to comment on our liquidity and financing.
APS ended the second quarter with no short-term debt outstanding and has ample liquidity.
Also the rain improvement provide APS and the parent company better access to short-term funding as well as the debt capital markets.
Regarding financings we have $400 million of APS unsecured notes due October 15 this year.
We will look to refinance all or portion of these notes in the upcoming months.
To close my remarks today we continue to be comfortable with our ability to fund APS capital expenditure program with no new equity needed until 2012 at the earliest.
And with that I’ll turn the call over to Don.
Don? Thanks Jim and thank you all for taking the time to join us this morning.
Since our last earnings call we made distinct progress in key areas and continued our track record of operation excellence.
Today I'll update you on the following topics.
One Arizona regulatory developments.
Two our renewable and other generation investments.
And three our recent operating performance.
We know Arizona regulations and APS recently filed retail rate case are top of mind for investors and analyst.
So I’ll start with those topics.
Progress is been made in Arizona’s regulatory environment and we appreciate the opportunity to continue working with the Arizona Corporation Commission and various stakeholders to further enhance the states regulatory framework to address several regulatory and operational issues and find solutions that balance the interest of customers shareholders and other stakeholders alike.
With this goal in mind we look forward to continuing this dialogue in our ongoing state regulatory proceedings.
On June 1 APS filed the general retail rate case; the key provisions of the case were in line with expectations set for stakeholders through APS’s 120 day notice filed back in February.
Today I’ll highlight the key request of the case and their benefits.
For your reference these items as well as key underlying assumptions are summarized in the appendix to today’s slide [deck].
The rate case provisions contain a number of benefits for our customers the communities we serve and our shareholders.
The requested regulatory treatment would build upon the constructive regulatory framework established in the 2009 settlement and would provide the financial support APS needs to achieve Arizona’s ambitious energy goals.
Through the rate application APS has requested a $95 million net base rate increase effective July 1 of 2012.
The proposed rate changes include a non-fuel base rate increase of $194 million a fuel related base rate decrease of $144 million attributable to the transfer of lower commodity costs from the power supply adjustor to base rates and a $45 million base rate increase attributable to the transfer of revenues from the Renewable Energy Surcharge to base rates.
This change relates primarily to AZ Sun projects that will be placed in service prior to new base rates becoming effective.
The net effect of these proposed changes on the average retail customer bill would be an increase of approximately 6.6%.
Slide 17 in the appendix shows the key financial assumptions underpinning the rate request including updated rate base cost of capital and fuel prices.
Other key provisions of the rate case request would continue constructive regulatory treatment and mitigate regulatory lag.
Post test-year plant additions would be added to rate base through the date new rates would become effective.
These additions totaled $250 million for AZ Sun and other solar projects and $161 million for all other projects.
This 18-month catch up is consistent with the methodology used in the 2009 settlement.
APS also proposes to implement two new recovery mechanisms that would modernize the rate-setting process and adjust electricity rates between general base rate applications.
The first of these is a decoupling mechanism using a revenue-per-customer method.
This mechanism would update APS's rates to address recovery of the company's fixed costs in an environment of lower energy sales caused by energy efficiency programs and renewable distributed generation.
The second mechanism proposed is a generation and environmental infrastructure tracker.
This mechanism would update APS's rates for costs associated with environmental compliance investments as well as generation additions and generation efficiency projects needed to serve APS's customers' expanding energy needs.
APS has requested its power supply adjustor be modified to allow full pass-through of all fuel and purchase power changes increases and decreases instead of the current 90/10 sharing provisions.
In addition APS requested that the second 50 Megawatts of the AZ Sun program be recovered through the RES until it's included in base rates.
This request is consistent with the 2009 regulatory settlement and was the approved treatment for the first 50 Megawatts of the program.
The Commission Administrative Law Judge has set a procedural schedule for the rate case proceedings.
In short the schedule provides two possible tracks for processing the request.
Under both tracks the ACC staff and interveners would file their direct testimony on November 18 on all matters except cost of service and rate design and then on December 2 on those typical topics and the hearing would begin on January 16.
However the details of the tracks are different.
One track assumes APS and the Commission staff and other parties pursue settlement discussions and settle the case.
Under this schedule the parties would enter into settlement discussions at November 30 with the goal of filing a settlement agreement with the Commission by late December.
Testimony supporting or opposing the settlement would be filed on January 11.
The other track assumes that no settlement is reached and the parties proceed to litigation.
Under that scenario APS would file rebuttal testimony on December 23.
The schedules are noteworthy in that they demonstrate support for collaboration among the parties and improve streamlining and efficiency of the regulatory process.
They also are noteworthy in that they are designed to allow for final ACC decision by July 1 of 2012 consistent with APS's 2009 regulatory settlement.
In a separate application filed with the commission on May 20 As I discussed during our last conference call in April we made our 2011 filings for rate changes related to transmission services.
The total adjustment to our annual transmission rates effective this year is a $44 million increase calculated pursuant to the formula rate making procedures previously approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
Of this amount $6 million relates to wholesale transactions with other utilities and that became effective June 1.
On June 21 the Arizona Commission approved our request to allow the $38 million balance of the adjustment related to transmission services for APS's retail customers to pass-through the company's transmission cost adjustor effective July 1.
Turning to renewable resources and our AZ Sun development activities.
We're on track with plans to significantly increase the amount of renewable energy APS provides.
Investing in these resources makes sense for our customers our communities the environment and our shareholders.
We play strong emphasis on solar power because Arizona has some of the best solar conditions in the world.
Solid progress continues on APS’s AZ Sun program the company’s plan to develop and own utility-scale photovoltaic plants in Arizona.
We now propose that there will be two phases to this program.
The first 100 megawatt phase which was approved in 2010 by the commission and a second 100 megawatt phase which was proposed as part of the APS’s 2012 RES implementation plan that was filed with the Arizona Commission on July 1.
I'll provide an update on phase one.
Then I’ll outline what we have proposed for phase two.
For your reference the appendix to our slides today contains summaries of both phases of the AZ Sun Program.
For phase one to-date we've announced projects for the total capacity of 83 megawatts and an estimated capital investment of $384 million.
Construction and other development activities are progressing as planned and we expect to place the first 45 megawatts of the AZ Sun Program in service for customers later this year.
One of the plants has begun delivering energy to the gird as portions of the plant are wired and tested and a second facility has nearly all the solar modules in place as crews continue to wire the collection system.
Procurement initiatives are underway to fill out the last 17 megawatts of phase one.
We expect projects for the remainder of phase one to come on line in 2012 and 2013.
Based on our success to-date with the first 100 megawatts of AZ Sun.
APS has requested that the commission approve phase two of AZ Sun is part of the company's 2012 RES implementation plan.
Phase two includes an additional 100 megawatts of utility-scale photovoltaic plants representing a potential capital investment about to $475 million.
We estimate the facilities would be placed in service in the 2013 through 2015 timeframe.
Further we have requested regulatory treatment for the facilities through the Renewable Energy Surcharge until the plants are recovered through base rates.
This approach is consistent with the first 50 megawatts of Phase I.
Assuming the ACC's consideration follows the timing of previous year's RES Implementation plans; we expect a decision from the commission on the 2012 plan around the end of this year.
We're excited about the AZ Sun Program and our other renewable energy initiatives.
They are important steps towards advancing Arizona's sustainable energy future.
Now turning to the status of our Four Corners plan.
During our last two conference calls we discussed our multipart plan to address several challenges facing our Four Corners coal-fired plant in Northwestern Mexico.
The plant presents a creative solution to address new environmental regulations and maintains our well-balanced resource portfolio.
A summary of the plan is included in the appendix to our slides.
To recap the plan APS has agreed to buy Southern California Edison's 739 megawatt interest in Units 4 to 5 for $294 million.
The parties target closing the transaction in late 2012.
If the purchase transaction moves forward as planned we intend to shut down Four Corners Units 1 2 and 3 which total 560 megawatts in size and are wholly owned by APS.
These units are smaller and less efficient than Units 4 and 5 and are not as well situated as the two larger units to bear the compliance costs associated with new regulations issued by the U.S.
EPA.
The net result of the anticipated acquisition enclosure is a 179 megawatt increase in the APS's share of Four Corners.
We estimate APS's capital expenditures for environmental compliance for our revised share of the plant would be about $300 million.
These expenditures would be far less than the estimated $620 million APS would need to spend if instead it were to bring our existing interests in all five plants units into compliance with the proposed EPA rules.
The acquisition requires approval by Arizona California and federal regulators and other government agencies.
It also is contingent upon extensions of the land lease with the Navajo Nation and the coal supply contract.
We've made progress on our plan on several fronts.
First the land lease extension through 2041 has been approved by the Navajo Nation.
Second the Arizona Corporation Commission began a hearing on the matter on July 14<sup>th</sup> and 15<sup>th</sup> and the hearing will resume on August 8<sup>th</sup>.
And third coal contract negotiations are underway.
We feel we believe our plan has substantial merits economically environmentally and socially.
Our proposal clearly provide significant savings given that the combined purchase price and environmental compliance costs for APS’s revised share would be less than environmental compliance cost per APS’s existing ownership in the plan.
Our plan has substantial benefits in other important areas as well.
We remain optimistic that APS and Southern California Edison will obtain the requisite approvals in a timely manner.
Now turning to our power plant performance for a few moments.
Our base load coal and nuclear fleet continues to perform well.
Our coal-fired plants continued their top tier performance.
In the second quarter our coal fleet posted a capacity factor 78% which is well above the most recently available industry average of 68%.
During the second quarter our Palo Verde nuclear facility operated at an 87% capacity factor reflecting the plan Unit 2 refueling outage during that timeframe which was completed in 35 days as planned.
We have another refueling outage scheduled for this fall in Unit 1 which we expect to be completed in about the same amount of time.
These refueling outage durations reflect sound planning and execution the benefits of our work over the past couple of years improving outage management and installing rapid refueling packages and replacing reactor vessel heads in each of the plan’s three units.
Now turning to the quality of our customer service.
Last month J.D.
Power and Associates released the results of its 2011 residential customer survey.
I am pleased that APS continues its record of excellent performance and overall customer satisfaction.
In eight of the last nine years APS has been ranked by residential our business customers in the top 10 nationally among all large segment utilities in overall customer satisfaction.
In the most recent results APS ranked fourth nationally among 55 large investor-owned electric utilities.
More specific to our region we were rated third among the 10 investor-owned utilities in the West.
In addition to the overall customer satisfaction index APS ranked in the top 10 nationally on five of the six components of customer satisfaction as defined by J.D.
Power.
Finally regarding our non-utility operations we continue to focus on our core utility operations and streamlining the company.
Toward that end Pinnacle West is negotiating the potential sale of our competitive energy services subsidiary APS Energy Services.
As a result APS Energy Services was classified as a discontinued operation as of June 30<sup>th</sup>.
In summary our company's goal is to achieve top-tier performance and we constantly work toward that objective in every facet of our business.
Going forward we are committed to maintaining operational excellence and achieving superior financial results by concentrating on our core electric utility business.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator at this time we would be pleased to take any questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Our first question is from Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey gentlemen good afternoon.
Hi Greg.
The Phase II Arizona Sun so this is your first disclosure of this opportunity correct? So this is incremental to Four Corners and others sort of rate base growth drivers should it be approved that we should think about sort of post 2012.
Is that fair? That's right Greg.
We filed this annual filing on July 1 of this year.
So this would be the first cycle where we’d be talking about it publicly.
Okay.
So should you be permitted to make these investments it would obviously wrap into your assessment of your capital needs.
But would it change the sort of statement you made earlier that you would need equity no sooner than 12 at the earliest? On the first point yeah this would be incremental capital.
And I think it’s reflected 12 is reflected in our QV Arizona Sun too but it's not a change our statement on equity before 12.
Great.
Second question you obviously had a relatively mild second quarter last year.
I think street consensus presumed it would get better it actually got a little bit worse.
But in terms of what we should think about in terms of the revenue requirement that you’ve asked for in the rate case that does presume normal weather next year is that right? Yes right.
Yes Greg.
And then on tax rate I mean if I'm doing the math correctly your – are you these new tax rates just going affect in the second quarter? Is that the first is it the first if I look back at your comments on what your drivers were in Q1 you didn’t mention higher tax rates then so.
You mean property tax? Yes.
Yes.
I think when we came into the year obviously we had a significant increase last year.
We plan for a significant increase this year as well as we went through the budget process we’re now beginning to get looks at the bills and we’re seeing rates that are higher than we thought.
Okay.
So there were sort of – you're getting the bills for the full-year but you’re getting them now? Yeah.
I got you.
That’s just like my call-up here in New York.
And it looks like the run rate am I right that the tax run rate looks like it’s $30 million to $40 million higher pre-tax just closing up the $0.05 on an annualized basis? Or is that not a fair assessment? That’s not a fair assessment It is or it is not? It is not Greg Can you tell us what you think or is it sort of a work in progress? No no.
If you look at sort of what we did with the ranges we increased operating expenses by approximately $10 million to reflect the increased property tax at this point.
Got you.
And we reduced interest expense by about $5 million keep in mind these are ranges to reflect lower interest expense for the year.
And that lower interest expense is partly reflective of the borrowing cost savings you’ll be getting from being able to access the commercial paper market? Yes it's less need to borrow cheaper rate because of the change to A2 or P2 in that case so.
Great great.
And then final question to the extent that these property taxes are running higher are you going to be able to make post period adjustments to your rate case to reflect that? Well we always try to make post test year adjustments and we’ll certainly look at any operating expenses on a measurable and try to account for that.
Okay.
So we should assume that under normal course of business these are recoverable expenses? They are recoverable expenses.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Daniel Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys just real quick on the rate case process.
You guys does look comfortable with the schedule formerly out that you can get this done by July worst case scenario? Yes very much so Dan.
And then from a settlement discussion perspective nothing is going to open up until after Thanksgiving and there’s effectively a month long window basically to get something resolved? Yes.
Okay.
And then whether have you guys seen any sort of turnabout in – as July has moved on if you look at the forecasts as far as August is concerned set the reduction for the third quarter is already captured in the books or have you guys put more question in for what things are better?  We’ve taken account of whether kind of like right up to yesterday and we're seeing a little bit of a rebound.
I think for today and tomorrow we're supposed to hit 110 or 111 but then it start cooling down.
After this week it's anybody's guess.
And Dan I'll say that you keep in mind that May June July all big summer months for us.
We are sort of down and not a whole lot of time left to offset this.
Okay.
And now I guess on Four Corners read something about the Department of Interior kind of preempting EPA action and then the need for investment.
Do you see that change in perspective to the plants at Navajo or do you see upgrades ultimately going to be required? Well I think it's premature to talk about Navajo.
We and the other partners are still in early stages of discussions with EPA and other parties.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Russo with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Just a follow-up on the revised 2011 guidance.
It looks like the gross margin is down about $40 million and I would imagine that's almost entirely related to weather.
Correct.
And then it looks like for the first half of 2011 the weather impact was negative 27 million versus normal which I assume your previous guidance was based on.
Correct.
So given that and since the revision is for the first seven months does that kind of imply that July mild weather impacted margins by negative 13 million?  Well I don't think you can just try to add the two together and get exactly the seven-month impact.
But the implication of it is July was below normal.
I don't have the stats yet but we do get daily weather statistics – or sales statistics and we know we're under from what would be normal weather.
Okay and Phase 2 of the Arizona AZ Sun program that you laid out is that needed to get to your RPS standard by 2015 or is some of that incremental? The Arizona Sun 2 is a piece of the incremental renewable power we need to meet the standard we agreed to on 2015.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
I had a follow-up on the property tax question.
Sure.
Jim you talked about a lag effect how should we think about that in the form of lag in 2012 once you’ve got new rates I mean is this going to happen every year for a couple of years as these counties try to stake hold? Well I can’t predict what counties are going to do in 2012.
I think the implication is what we’re now seeing is the steep drop in ’08 ‘09 work its way through assessment ratios.
The housing slide we showed shows EBIT fairly flat over the last 12 to 18 months and if that relationship solve I would think property tax would be fairly flat next year.
Okay so season capture this and post test you should be (inaudible)? Well what we capture I mean 20% reduction which is pretty significant.
So I can’t imagine we’re missing another big piece of property tax.
And just in 2011 where are line extension revenues tracking relative to plan? They’re tracking pretty much on plan to the first six months of the year.
Keep in mind those things are very volatile just because they’re based on builders’ schedule.
So I mean we still expect to be where we thought we’d be but we’ll see what happens throughout the year.
And then the two post tests your planned additions are those captured in your I think the $198 million is that going to be incremental? No that's captured in our ask.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Paul.
Our next question comes from Ali Agha with Suntrust.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Jim could you remind us in your revised guidance what is the assumed utility earned ROV and just remind us what was the actual for ‘10? The actual for ‘10 was 9.3 and we assume high eight in guidance.
Okay.
And secondly also to clarify the rate case proceeding is it fair to assume if you were to go the settlement route and that were to play out to the end would the new rate still go into effect July 1 or could they change based on the settlement? No the assumption of all the parties with the 12-month cycle is they’d be affected July 1 ’12.
Okay okay.
So regardless of which path ultimately place out? That's correct.
And it's also consistent with our settlement with set rates and affect no earlier than July 1 ’12.
Right right right.
And the AZ Sun II Program also just to be clear on that I think I heard you on this but just to be clear.
So that CapEx that you would spend which you have not I guess budgeted today would not offset some other spending this would all be incremental and could be absorbed based on your liquidity and cash flows et cetera.
Ali let’s clarify.
We do have the twelfth portion in our 10-Q updated CapEx.
Keep in mind this will probably be a later ‘11 approval which means it’s hard to get a whole lot started in ‘12 or probably ‘13 and later loaded it would be incremental the way we see it today.
But I am very confident about our liquidity and ability to fund these projects.
Okay.
And Jim as you’ve said in the past from the equity issuance point of view the key there still remains the timing of the future rate case filing and the texture that goes with that as opposed to the CapEx needs for the business.
Is that still a fair way to think about it? Yes.
Got it.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Good afternoon.
Hi Neil.
Hi Neil.
So surplus gas and intervenors filed the settlement in Arizona last week in their base rate case.
It looked good there were some partial decoupling and more experienced timeline.
What read over if any is there to the pending APS case? I’ve said in the past it’s hard to look at a gas settlement and relate that to electric utility just like it’s hard to look at electric utility settlement related to another company.
I’d think from that perspective.
Again I think not been involved shows parties wanting to come together and settle cases and dialogue around decoupling and that’s really mildly read on that.
And retail usage per customer increased again this quarter we saw it last quarter as well.
How does that impact the way you think about decoupling because you’d be given any upside from higher customer usage? Well I would say two things.
One is we’re seeing a rebound from absolute declines and so we don’t think that this big increase in customer usage is an ongoing pattern and we think it’s just that rebound effect going forward with flat sales being taken with decoupling and energy efficiency decoupling is very important for us to have as a mechanism.
All right and then final question on transmission projects any new developments or key projects we should be keeping our eyes on? No.
Not this time.
Okay.
Great thanks guys.
Ms.
Hickman there are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
Christine thank you.
And thank you again for joining us today.
As always if you need further information about our earnings or other information about our company please contact me or Geoff Wendt.
This concludes our call.
Ladies and gentleman our teleconference has concluded.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Our first question is from Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
I have two questions.
First when you look at your regulatory filing including the decoupling/rate design aspects that you requested has there been any sort of heretofore public commentary from different intervener groups that you could talk about that point to the points of the most contention as we approach the settlement talk date? No Greg.
I – like we said we’ve had stakeholder meetings on a monthly basis and dialogue is generally being good.
I think it’s been a good lively give and take but I don’t think anything pops to the surface that would indicate a ranking so to speak of where peoples’ heads are now.
Okay.
My second question is kind of away from this.
You own obviously the largest operating nuclear facility in the country.
And Don I know that you’re also on the board of Nuclear Energy Insurance Limited.
Can you comment on what you’re seeing in terms of the issues at Crystal River 3 what looks like a near-miss of an issue at Davis-Besse and how that informs – how you’re thinking about the maintenance of your nuclear plant and whether you’re embarking on any construction projects there that we need to be wary of? Well no I can’t comment on Crystal River or Davis-Besse Greg.
But we don’t have any kind of projects anywhere close to anything like that.
We’re doing some construction of like an outage administration building but literally that’s an office small office building within the protected area.
Okay.
So there’s no plans for steam generator or vessel head replacements? No we’ve just completed over the last 10 years 12 years 13 years all the steam generators changed out through the early part of the last decade.
And just completed a year or so ago the last reactor head.
And unique we have a hatch that was built in the containment during construction.
So there was no cutting concrete.
It was just unbolting and opening the hatch.
It’s a big project but there was no cutting into the concrete.
Thanks Don.
Okay.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Hi Kevin.
I just have I guess a question on energy efficiency.
So I recognize that energy efficiency is typically viewed as the cheapest form of power but those capital costs are often borne by the customers as they upgrade equipment make their home improvements and so on.
But if we’re in a sustained low economy does it seem – it seem like these resources are less available today than they were a couple years ago when these were – when these policies were struck especially now with like a bigger bifurcation between economic classes.
And so Don do you see – do you know if the Commission is showing any interest at all in reducing the efficiency targets to lessen the burden on your customers particularly as those at lower end of the economic spectrum are being affected by base rates resets? Well Kevin we haven’t seen anything out of the Commission in that regard to this point.
And I’ll add particularly during the first few years of pursuing energy efficiency we’re really in the point in time of a lot of low-hanging fruit.
And most of the programs we have in place have besides our subsidies some pretty quick payback periods for customers.
And really it’s been a very favorable response from our customers and the results demonstrate that the programs and processes work.
Okay.
And what sort of programs do you have in place right now in order to achieve – I guess the nearest hurdle right is 9.5% by 2015? Yeah a variety.
Well time-of-use rates weatherization programs pool pump programs air-conditioning rebates for higher SEERs.
I could go on.
We’ve got – you can find most of them on our website pretty extensive.
We think probably one of the most extensive programs in the industry.
Okay.
Thank you.
And I guess on a separate question.
Jim did you say that you’re assuming 1% customer growth from 2011 to ‘14 because I thought you filed for 1.7% in the rate case? On average 1% customer growth yes.
Do you know – I guess what sort of – under a full decoupling mechanism what sort of – have you provided any sort of EPS sensitivity to changes in realized customer growth rates? No.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Hey Jim could you remind us assuming you do end up at the higher end of the range as you expect to for the year what would that correspond to in terms of ROE for the utility? It’d be just north of 8.5%.
Okay.
And then going back to the commentary that you made earlier in terms of the discussions that you’re having with all the parties throughout this process on the rate case should one extrapolate that to assume that – we should assume that a settlement is the most likely outcome on this process given what you’ve been hearing from all the parties you’ve been in discussion with? I wouldn’t extrapolate the technical conference into a settlement in the case.
Proposing the mechanisms that we did decoupling the infrastructure tracker these were really avenues to more fully explain and get points of view and clear up questions going into this filing from the interveners.
Okay.
And then lastly can you remind us what was the final outcome of the study of the report that was done on the outage that had happened a few months back has that issue been pretty much resolved or just remind us where we stand on that? Yeah this is Don Robinson.
The September 8th outage is still being reviewed by FERC and NERC and WAC and the California ISO and we wouldn’t expect any results out for many months.
Sometimes beyond your rate case outcome et cetera? Well I can’t tell you when the rate case is going to be done but I think this will be a few months down the road.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yes hello.
Just the property tax trends that you’re seeing it seem that they’ve come in a little bit under what you were expecting a quarter ago.
Is this kind of an ongoing review or is the base that’s reflected in your O&amp;M expense guidance should that be the base that we can now work off of going forward? Well I would answer it this way Brian as we knew in ‘10 we’d have higher rates than ‘09 because valuations were falling.
We knew that ‘11 would be higher than ‘10.
We try to extrapolate that into booking the number in the second quarter and they came in slightly lighter than we thought.
And with the stability in home pricing we’ve been seeing in the last year we could see an increase in property taxes but we think the big run-up is behind us over the last couple of years.
Okay.
And the $475 million of capital investment for the Phase II of AZ Sun should we assume you build or buy 50% of that and the rest of PPAs? No.
The $475 million and the 100 megawatts would be our rate basing similar to what we did in AZ 1.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Yep.
Good afternoon.
Can you comment on your pre-established equity needs in 2012 where we assume a constructive outcome in the rate case? Well like we said before our need for equity will be driven by whether or not we have a settlement because that’ll dictate whether or not ‘12 is a test year.
And if ‘12 is not a test year I don’t believe we would issue equity in 2012.
I think we’ll be issuing in 2013 at the earliest in that regard.
Size-wise we haven’t really talked about size.
I would just point out that Don alluded the sale of APS Energy Services and we continue to sell non-regulated and that would continue to reduce the need for equity at the Pinnacle level.
Any potential upside to your credit ratings assuming a constructive outcome? Well that’s obviously up to the agencies but S&amp;P kept us on positive outlook.
And I think there is potential implication there but we’ve had no dialogue with the agencies directly related to the subject.
Okay.
Thank you.
Hey guys.
Hey Neil.
So as we think about that $44 million transmission rate increase that you received earlier this year how much of it did you take in Q3 and what was the adjustment factor that offset part of that in the quarter? The increase in Q3 was $8 billion before the adjustment factor.
And the adjustment factor is just an adjustment to a formula that affected prior years.
Got it.
So that was limited to Q3 the adjustment but on a go-forward basis it won’t be a factor? It won’t be much of a factor that’s correct.
All right.
And then on AZ Sun 2 as you think about those 100 megawatts from 2013 to 2015 in your filing did you talk about the distribution of those megawatts when you expect them to come online? Well Neil we did but I would point out that just like we did it ratably in the last one we’ll be opportunistic and you have to do RFPs and you have to find projects that work that have land and the permitting is always an issue as we’ve seen.
So it will be based on really what the market and availability of projects give us over that timeframe.
Got it.
And then on Four Corners can you just refresh us in terms of how you’re thinking about timing.
We’ve still got some regulatory approvals that are contingent.
Are you still targeting late 2012? Yes.
Yes.
And got it.
And I guess those are my questions.
Thank you very much guys.
Thanks Neil.
Thanks Neil.
Good morning.
Hey Paul.
Wanted to just touch base with you on this staff recommendation on the solar incentives and the fact that solar prices have fallen.
Any comments on that any thoughts about how that could affect the proposals you have with the Commission the fall in solar prices? As we looked at the filing the staff pretty much agreed to a request that we had made and actually cut down the incentive piece a little on the residential to recognize the fact that you don’t need as much there.
But other than that we don’t see much else happening.
Okay.
And then with respect to the property tax question that I think Brian was asking about.
Right.
I guess the $0.02; is that – I wasn’t completely clear on that is that sort of an annual impact that we’re going to be seeing in terms of delta as to what you had seen previously or...? Yeah no that’s an annual impact.
We now have our assessments in our bills in for the year so now we do know our bill.
Third quarter we were trying to extrapolate some things we saw from various counties.
Okay.
And then you guys very effectively went over your schedule and I missed part of it; the November 30 and December 23 dates what were those signifying? I apologize for being a little off the wall? Well the November 30 date is the date according to the procedural schedule that we formally start settlement discussions.
That’s since been clarified and said we can start earlier if all the parties choose to.
And we have until December 23 when we’ll either file a settlement agreement in the case or we’ll file rebuttal testimony.
So we’ll be on dual track in that timeframe.
Okay.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you Paul.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
I noticed that your weather normalized retail usage for businesses has slowed down quite a bit in the last few quarters.
In the first quarter this year you had 1.7% growth second quarter 0.3% growth and then last quarter down 1.9%.
What were the drivers for that and do you think that will continue for the next six to 12 months? Well as I looked at the customer usage before the call I saw no particular industry group or driver for commercial sales.
So I think it’s broad-based and reflective of just the state of the economy in Arizona.
As I mentioned earlier in the call we’ve seen some economic statistics that have been fairly favorable noting that we came from pretty far back and so I don’t expect any real worsening of those sales trends as we move forward.
Okay.
So yeah with your weather normalized guidance of flat for 2011 through 2013 you’re basically assuming that that will normalize and stabilize going forward? Yeah.
Okay.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Hey Ted.
I had a quick question on pension.
One just your thoughts in general about pension headwinds next year given the move in the markets and the move in discount rates? And then secondly I’m remembering I think in 2008 you guys were – had some unique plan where you actually booked a gain where the market was obviously down significantly on your assets.
And I wanted to just know if that the program is still in place and how we should think about the performance of your assets this year? Well there’s no question we’ll have headwinds on pension in 2012 with not only the discount rate but certainly we look at the screen today and know what asset returns are doing.
Now keep in mind we do get to defer a bigger piece of pension in OPEB in 2012 so that it’ll partially offset that.
And then what you referred to in 2008 as we had done – we had executed an LDI strategy on the pension plan.
And at the end of the year when you had very low treasuries very high spreads we ended with a positive return in the pension plan.
In fact I think we had the top-performing pension plan in America that year.
That plan was removed at the beginning of ‘09 to take the gain which – so that plan is only partially in place today and will continue to benefit us but no question we have headwinds.
Okay.
So your returns will look probably more in line with the market than they did in 2008 because you had made a good call back then? That’s correct.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
Southwest Gas recently received a decoupling mechanism.
I think there’s another gas utility segment that’s in for a decoupling mechanism.
Do you view that as a relevant read over to the commission’s appetite for decoupling for electric? No.
I think this commission has clearly demonstrated the difference between electric and gas companies in the rate setting process and have further delineated growth utilities from non-growth utilities on the electric side as well.
I think the track record clearly points at that.
Got it.
And on O&amp;M expense growth what have you guys guided to for next year? We haven’t.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you Christine and thank you all again for joining us today.
As always if you have further details that you need about our earnings or information about our company please contact me or Geoff Wendt.
This concludes our call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!  Greetings and welcome to the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2011 Fourth Quarter and Year-End Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Rebecca Hickman Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Ms.
Hickman you may begin.
Thank you Christine.
I’d like to thank everyone for participating in this conference call and webcast to review our fourth quarter and full year 2011 earnings recent developments and operating performance.
Our speakers today will be our Chairman and CEO Don Brandt; and our CFO Jim Hatfield.
Jeff Guldner who is APS Vice President of Rates and Regulation is also here with us.
Before I turn the call over to our speakers I need to cover a few details with you.
First the slides to which we refer are available on our Investor Relations website along with our earnings release supplemental information on our earnings variances and operating statistics the webcast and the Form 8-K filed this morning.
Please note that slides contain reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Also all of our references to per share amounts will be after income taxes and based on diluted shares outstanding.
It is my responsibility to advise you that this call and our slides contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and the company assumes no obligation to update these statements.
Because actual results may differ materially from expectations we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements.
Our 2011 Form 10-K was filed this morning.
Please refer to that document for forward-looking statements cautionary language as well as the MD&amp;A section which identifies risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
A replay of this call will be available on our website for the next 30 days.
It will also be available by telephone through March 2.
At this point I’ll turn the call over to Jim.<br> Thank you Becky.
The topics I will discuss today are outlined on slide four.
First I’ll review the consolidated fourth quarter results and discuss the main variances from last year’s corresponding quarter.
Second I will discuss our 2011 full year results provide.
Third I will provide a brief update on the status and outlook for the Arizona economy.
And lastly I will close with brief comments on our liquidity and financing activities.
Slide five summarizes our reported and ongoing earnings for the quarter.
On a GAAP basis for this year’s fourth quarter we reported consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders of $13 million or $0.11 per share compared with net income of $7 million or $0.07 per share for the prior year’s fourth quarter.
Our ongoing earnings increased $0.06 per share.
For the 2011 fourth quarter we had consolidated ongoing earnings of $12 million or $0.11 per share versus ongoing earnings of $5 million or $0.05 per share for the comparable quarter a year ago.
Slide six contains a reconciliation of our fourth quarter 2011 and 2010 GAAP earnings per share to our ongoing earnings.
The amounts for both quarters exclude the results related to our discontinued operations.
The discontinued operations amounts relate primarily to APS Energy Services part of which were sold in mid-2010 and the remainder of which was sold in mid-2011.
My remaining comments on the quarter will focus on ongoing results.
Moving to slide seven you see the variances that drove the change in quarterly ongoing earnings per share.
First an increase in our regulated electricity segment gross margin added $0.05 per share compared with the prior year’s fourth quarter.
Several pluses and minuses comprise this positive net variance and I will cover those items in more detail on the next slide.
Second lower operations and maintenance expenses improved earnings by $0.06 per share.
The decrease largely reflects lower power plant maintenance costs as a result of more work being completed earlier in the year than in 2010 as well as lower employee benefit costs.
This O&amp;M variance excludes expenses related to the Renewable Energy Standard or RES energy efficiency and similar regulatory programs which are offset by comparable revenue amounts.
Third the impact of all other items increased earnings by $0.01 per share.
These favourable variances were partially offset by the absence of tax benefits of $0.06 per share that were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Turning to slide eight and the composition of the net increase in our regulated electricity gross margin total regulated electricity gross margin was up $0.05 per share compared with the 2010 quarter.
The main components of that increase were as follows.
The retail transmission cost adjustor rate increase that became effective July 1 of 2011 raised revenue by $0.03 per share.
Line extension fees recorded as revenues pursuant to the 2009 retail regulatory settlement improved our results by $0.02 per share.
The net effect of other miscellaneous items increased our gross margin by $0.02 per share.
Lastly the non-cash mark-to-market valuation of APS’ fuel and purchase power hedges net of the related power supply adjustor or PSA deferrals lowered earnings by $0.02 per share compared with the year ago.
For your reference our mark-to-market amounts by quarter for the past couple of years are shown in the appendix slide.
Putting this all in context for earnings let’s look at our full year comparison on slide nine.
On a GAAP basis for the year 2011 as a whole we reported consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders of $339 million or $3.09 per share compared with net income of $350 million or $3.27 per share for 2010.
Our ongoing earnings for 2011 were $2.99 per share compared with $3.03 per share in 2010.
Our 2011 earnings exceeded our earnings guidance.
We had projected ongoing earnings would be near the top of our guidance range of $2.75 to $2.90.
The actual results were due in part to lower O&amp;M costs than previously projected and colder than normal fourth quarter weather.
Our cost management efforts companywide continued to control our O&amp;M and other costs.
Our guidance was based on normal weather so the colder weather increased retail sales above our previous projections.
As we previously indicated we do not intend to issue earnings guidance for 2012 until after the final decision has been rendered in APS’ pending rate case.
However to assess with your estimates a list of key drivers that may affect 2012 ongoing earnings is included in the appendix to today’s slides.
We understand pensions are an important topic for the financial community at this time.
To address that concern I will give you a few of our pension statistics.
Our pre-tax pension cost towards the O&amp;M was $29 million in 2011 net of the deferral under the 2009 retail rate settlement.
We expect our annual pension expense to increase only about $5 million a year over the next couple of years.
Also in spite of market conditions our pension plan earned 9.4% in 2011.
Looking at our pension funding status we estimate that our plan is 85% funded as calculated under the RES requirements.
We did not make a contribution to the plan in 2011 and we currently anticipate contributing $65 million in 2012.
All in all we feel good about our pension expense and the funding outlook and status of the plan.
Turning to slide 10 and looking at our fundamental growth outlook in the Arizona economy.
Economic growth in Arizona continued to improve in the fourth quarter although modestly.
As shown on the slide 10 growth in non-farm jobs and consumer spending are both solidly ahead of the prior year’s level.
The rate of growth has moderated slightly from earlier in this in the year but the trend remains positive.
Other indicators like income growth and the unemployment rate also showed steady improvement although the patterns remain uneven.
All in all these trends indicate that the Arizona economy is headed in the right direction even though we have significant headwinds to contain with.
Unemployment remains too high and the vacancy rates in housing and commercial real estate are only marginally lower than our pace in 2010.
One bright spot has begun to emerge in the demand trend for industrial space in metro Phoenix region with vacancy rates down some 20% from our peak but other sectors are seen only slow absorption of excess space.
We believe the situation will continue restrain new construction and higher levels of growth for at least two to three years.
APS’ customer base grew 0.4% in 2011 while retail sales increased 0.6% after reflecting the effects of the company synergy efficiency programs but excluding weather variations.
Over the long term though we remain confident in Arizona’s fundamentals.
We expect customer growth and usage to return to stronger levels as the national and state economic environments improve.
Looking at the next several years we currently expect annual customer growth to average 1.6% for 2012 through 2014 as growth accelerates during that timeframe.
Additionally we expect our average annual weather normalized retail sales in kilowatt hours to be relatively flat from 2012 to 2014 primarily due to APS’ energy efficiency programs offsetting a modest recovery in the economy.
Lastly I want to comment on our liquidity and financing.
APS ended the fourth quarter with no short-term debt outstanding and has ample liquidity.
Our higher credit ratings have provided APS and the parent company improved access to short-term funding as well as to the debt capital markets.
Last month APS issued $325 million of 30 years senior unsecured notes at 4.5%.
To date we believe this is the lowest interest rate on record ever for an S&amp;P BBB rated corporate issuance in the utilities space.
I believe the record interest rate and a strong demand for the notes speak highly to the progress we have made over the last three years.
Net proceeds from the sale of those notes along with cash on hand will be used to repay $375 million of APS’ outstanding 6.5% unsecured senior notes that mature on March 1.
With that I will turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Jim and thank you all for joining us this morning.
Today I will update you on three areas: first APS’ pending retail rate settlement; two our investments in renewable resources and other generation and three our operating performance in 2011.
We know Arizona regulation and APS’ recently filed rate settlement are top of mind for investors.
So I will start with those topics.
On January 6 we filed a proposed settlement of APS’s pending retail rate case.
22 of the 24 active parties to the proceedings signed the settlement agreement.
Such broad-based support demonstrates significant collaboration and cooperation among APS the commission staff and other parties.
Details of the settlement as well as key underlying assumptions are outlined in the appendix to our slides today.
The settlement contains a number of benefits for our customers the communities we serve and our shareholders.
Slide 14 highlights the benefits from an investor’s perspective.
Notably the requested regulatory treatment would build upon the constructive framework established in the 2009 settlement and provide a financial support structure for APS that will help us achieve Arizona’s energy goals over the next four years.
Slide 15 shows the settlement’s proposed base rate changes which include: first a non-fuel base rate increase of $116.3 million reflecting among other things 15 months of post-test year plant additions in rate base.
Second a fuel related rate base decrease of $153.1 million attributable to lower commodity costs and finally a $36.8 million base rate increase to transfer revenues from the renewable energy surcharge to base rates.
Those revenues relate primarily to the AZ Sun projects that will have been placed in service by March 31 of this year.
Collectively these terms would produce a net zero dollar change to existing base rates in 2012 which is an important benefit to APS customers.
In addition the average retail customer bill would decrease slightly when the rates proposed are first implemented.
In addition to the base rate changes the settlement contains a number of key financial provisions.
I will provide a brief overview of these proposals which are shown on slide 16.
Several newer modified rate adjustment mechanisms would further support timely cost recovery.
These include: first the adoption of a new lost fixed cost recovery rate mechanism or LFCR to address ratemaking effects of energy efficiency and distributed renewable energy.
Second changes to APS’ power supply adjustor to allow 100% recovery of fuel and purchase power costs thus eliminating the current 90:10 sharing.
Third procedural changes related to the retail transmission cost adjustor to streamline the passthrough of future FERC rate changes.
And fourth modification of the environmental improvement surcharge to allow a timely recovery of certain carrying costs for government mandated environmental capital expenditures.
The settlement would permit APS to seek rate adjustments in 2013 for the Four Corners transaction after it’s consummated.
I will provide an update on Four Corners plant momentarily.
The settlement also would allow certain property tax expense variances caused by future changes to Arizona property tax rates to be deferred for future rate treatment.
And finally the settlement includes a four-year stay-out for the next general retail rate case filing.
Under this provision APS may file its next general rate case on or after May 31 of 2015 for rates to become effective no earlier than July 1 of 2016.
We believe several factors will support us financially during the stay-out period.
These include certain features of the settlement such as the property tax deferrals and the lost fixed cost recovery mechanism rate adjustments related to the Four Corners acquisition and APS’ other tracking mechanisms and our continuing focus on cost management and operational excellence.
Key financial assumptions that underpin the settlement including updated rate base a 10% allowed return on equity capital structure and fuel prices can be found on slide 17.
Looking ahead key procedural dates are shown on slide 18.
Of recent note the hearing in the matter was conducted January 26 through February 3.
The next steps in the process are post-hearing briefs which are due February 29 and then again March 14.
After that the case will be in the hands of the commission’s chief administrative law judge for preparation of her recommended order on the matter.
APS and the other settling parties have requested that the settlement become effective July 1 of this year which appears very reasonable under the current schedule.
We view the settlement agreement as a further sign of progress in Arizona’s regulatory environment.
We appreciate the opportunity to continue working with the commission and various stakeholders to enhance the state’s regulatory framework and to find solutions that balance the interests of customers shareholders and other stakeholders.
Now turning to renewable resources and our AZ Sun development activities we are on track with plans to increase the amount of renewable energy APS provides for our retail customers.
Our plans place strong emphasis on solar power because Arizona has some of the best solar conditions in the world.
Our most noteworthy progress related to renewable energy has been APS’ AZ Sun program.
The Arizona Corporation Commission has approved the program and its related constructive rate recovery.
Under the program which has been expanded since our last call APS now plans to develop and own up to 200 megawatts of utility-scale photovoltaic solar plants in Arizona.
The projects are to be placed in service in 2011 through 2015.
The program was expanded last December when the Arizona commission approved the second 100 megawatts phase.
In late 2011 and earlier this year we placed three new AZ Sun plants into commercial operation adding a total of 50 megawatts of solar capacity to our generation mix.
The facilities are located at the Paloma and Cotton Center plants both of which are in Gila Bend Arizona a town southwest of Phoenix and at the Hyder facility located in South-western Arizona.
Construction and other development activities are currently underway for two sites for another 33 megawatts.
These facilities would be in service in late 2012 and then again in 2013.
To date our announced projects and service and under development have a total capacity of 83 megawatts with an estimated capital investment of $375 million.
A project summary is included on slide 19.
Additional planning and procurement activities are in various stages for the balance of the capacity needed to complete the AZ Sun program.
These renewable energy initiatives particularly AZ Sun are important measured steps toward advancing Arizona’s sustainable energy future.
These projects also support Arizona’s economy.
New solar and wind plants to serve APS customers have created more than 2400 design engineering and construction jobs for our state.
Turning to the status of the Four Corners plant as you know late in 2010 we announced our plan to acquire Southern California Edison’s interest in the Four Corners coal-fired plant in North-western New Mexico.
The plant addresses new environmental regulations while maintaining our well balanced resource portfolio.
Our plant has substantial merits economically environmentally and socially.
A summary of the plant is included on slide 20.
The acquisition requires approval by Arizona California and Federal regulators and other government agencies.
In Arizona the corporation commission completed a hearing on the matter last fall and we are awaiting a recommendation from the administrative law judge before the matter is brought before the commission for a vote.
Last week the California public utilities commission issued a proposed decision approving the sale by Southern California Edison and a final decision from the CPUC is expected in March.
We will remain optimistic that both APS and Southern California Edison will obtain the requisite favorable rulings from the respective commissions in a timely manner.
Our acquisition also was conditioned upon the execution of a new coal supply contract as well as approval by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission expiration of the Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period and other typical closing conditions.
Looking at our operating performance our baseload nuclear and coal fleet continues to perform well.
For the full year 2011 Palo Verde nuclear facility operated at a site average capacity factor of 91%.
Palo Verde had its best production year ever generating more than 31 million megawatt hours topping at site record from 2010.
Palo Verde is the only U.S.
generating facility of any kind to ever exceed 30 million megawatt hours in a single year and it did so last year for the seventh time.
Additionally Palo Verde was the top U.S.
power producer of any kind again in 2011.
Our coal-fired plants continued their run of strong performance as well.
For the year 2011 our coal fleet posted a capacity factor of 80% which is well above the most recently available industry average of 67%.
Before I close I will take just another minute or two to highlight a few additional achievements that reflect on our overall solid performance in 2011.
Pinnacle West stock outperformed both our industry and the broad market.
We are pleased that our total shareholder return which is comprised of stock price appreciation plus dividends was 22% which compares favorably with the U.S.
electric utility average of 21% and the S&amp;P 500 index return of only 2%.
Early last summer Standard &amp; Poor’s upgraded both APS’ and the parent company’s crediting ratings to BBB from BBB minus thus improving our borrowing costs and more importantly further securing our access to the capital markets.
After more than two years of review and scrutiny the U.S.
nuclear regulatory commission approved 20-year license extensions for all of three Palo Verde units assuring that Palo Verde will continue to power the South-western United States until the middle of this century.
Our industrial safety record is at the top of our list of accomplishments.
I am proud to report that in 2011 we had the lowest number of recordable injuries in our company’s history.
However I and every other member of our team will continue to drive safety performance towards our goal of zero injuries.
Regarding system reliability APS’ average outage time per customer continued to be in the best quartile of our industry and set a new company record in 2011.
Record setting reliability and other customer focused efforts allowed APS to continue achieving best of class customer satisfaction as evidenced by the company being ranked fourth highest nationally among large investor-owned electric utilities by JD Power and Associates.
In summary our company aims to achieve top-tier performance and our employee team constantly strives to meet that objective in every facet of our business.
Going forward we’re committed to achieving superior operational and financial results by concentrating on our core electric utility business.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator so at this time we’d be pleased to take any questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Shar Pourreza with Citigroup.
Please proceed with your question.
Just one question.
With the current docket in the GRC remaining open for Four Corners what kind of like a recovery lag are we looking at as you spend on the environmental retrofits? On the environmental piece specifically? Yep.
Well we do have in this case the EIS which is a surcharge is capped at $5 million.
So we will be recovering some of those on a next-year basis.
So we are looking at less than 12 months on some of the environmental for Four Corners.
Our next question is from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys.
Stepping in for Neil a little bit here.
Just real quick one want to follow on Four Corners question.
First of all what’s the lag -- from the time you acquired it what’s the lag between when you acquired it and when the infrastructure rider would let you actually start earnings on the acquisition? And then when you start the environmental CapEx if the cap is only $5 million what do you do – just accrue AFUDC for the unrecovered on the non-cash piece until you file your next TRC? That’s correct Michael.
On the last one we would recover some real-time in the EIS and the other would be AFUDC.
On the first question to keep the docket open so assuming we acquire their SCE’s piece in the early fourth quarter potentially as early as mid-year 2013 we would begin actual recovery of the acquisition.
So I want to make sure I follow that.
So if the transaction closes at year end 2012 what’s the earliest you would see – and what’s the most likely timeframe you would actually see a revenue uplift from it? We’re just assuming mid-year ’13.
Got it.
And how do you think about financing the actual acquisition? Well I think it’s incremental to sort of our capital build that we would issue incremental debt and equity just to support the balance sheet.
Got it.
Last thing with the multi-year stay-out how do you think about your O&amp;M cost reduction opportunities because I mean that’s generally the primary benefit of the multi-year stay-out? And second whether kind of the capital structure ratios during the stay-out versus as you get closer to the end of the rate freeze or not rate freeze but rate case hiatus? Well I think on the O&amp;M side I look at this year ex-RES O&amp;M was essentially flat to 2010.
As I have said before as we go forward with the two-thirds of our O&amp;M expense being employee costs we don’t have a lot of levers to pull.
At some point we are going to become focusing on payroll creep to the O&amp;M.
That said we’re going to continue – I mean our levers to pull on during the stay-out is the focus on CapEx and O&amp;M.
And that’s what we are going to continue to do and I think our track record over the last three years has proven that we are very much focused on costs.
From a cap structure perspective obviously ’14 is designed to be the test year.
And we’ll try to get our capital structure consistent with where we are now by 2014.
In the interim it will be based on financing needs and credit metrics and those sort of things.
So it could vary from the 53.9%.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from the line of Scott Senchak with Decade Capital.
Please proceed with your question.
Just a question on the CapEx you guys provided in the K.
How does it treat Arizona’s Sun part two? I know you haven’t announced the projects yet but I was just wondering if there was some estimate in there for that or not? The estimate for Arizona Sun part two is in the renewables line.
It’s really sort of ‘13 to ‘15 even though it only goes to ‘14.
Got you.
Okay great.
And then on the O&amp;M side how should we think about the growth of that? Is there some kind of metrics that you try to taking along with sales growth or is it customer growth or is it just something else we could look at? Well obviously as we’ve said before I mean we try to focus O&amp;M growth at equal to or less than the rate of growth of (indiscernible) sales just as a way to allow sales growth to fall to the bottom line.
Like I said we’ve been fairly flat since 2008 and at some point we’re going to hit the pressures of just the payroll creep so.
Ms.
Hickman it appears we have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
Thank you Christine.
We appreciate all of you being on the call today.
We know it’s a very busy time for you.
As always if you have any questions please contact me or Geoff Wendt.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2011 first quarter earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Becky Hickman Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Ms.
Hickman you may begin.
Thank you Claudia.
I’d like to thank everyone for participating in this conference call and webcast to review our first quarter 2012 earnings recent developments and operating performance.
Our speakers today will be our Chairman and CEO Don Brandt; and our CFO Jim Hatfield.
Jeff Guldner who is APS Vice President of Rates and Regulation is also here with us.
Before I turn the call over to our speakers I need to cover a few details with you.
First the slides to which we refer are available on our Investor Relations website along with our earnings release and related information.
Please note that the slides contain reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Also all of our references to per share amounts will be after income taxes and based on diluted shares outstanding.
It is my responsibility to advise you that this call and our slides contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and the company assumes no obligation to update these statements.
Because the actual results may differ materially from expectations we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements.
Our first quarter 2012 Form 10-Q was filed this morning.
Please refer to that document for forward-looking statements cautionary language as well as the MD&amp;A section which identifies risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
A replay of this call will be available on our website for the next 30 days.
It will also be available by telephone through May 10.
At this point I’ll turn the call over to Jim.
Thank you Becky.
The topics I will discuss today are outlined on slide four.
First I will review the consolidated first-quarter results and discuss the main variances from last year's corresponding quarter.
Second I'll provide a brief update on the status outlook for the Arizona economy and last I will close with brief comments on our liquidity and financing activities.
Slide five summarizes our reported and ongoing earnings for the quarter.
On GAAP basis for this year's first quarter we reported a consolidated net loss attributable to common shareholders of $8 million or $0.08 per share compared to a net loss of $15 million or $0.14 per share for the prior year's first quarter.
Our ongoing earnings increased $0.08 per share.
For the 2012 first quarter we had consolidated ongoing loss of $7 million or $0.07 per share versus an ongoing loss of $16 million or $0.15 per share for the comparable quarter a year ago.
Slide six contains a reconciliation of our first quarter GAAP earnings per share to our ongoing earnings per share.
The amount for both quarters exclude results related to our discontinued real estate and energy services businesses.
My remaining comments on the quarter will focus on our ongoing results.
Moving to slide seven you see the variances that drove the change in quarterly ongoing earnings per share.
First an increase in our gross margins added one penny per share compared against the prior year's first-quarter earnings.
Several plusses and minuses comprises positive net variance and I will cover those items in more detail on the next slide.
Second lower operations and maintenance expense improved earnings by $0.07 per share.
The expense decrease largely reflects lower fossil plant maintenance cost as a result of less work being completed early in the year compared to 2011 as well as the net decrease in other items.
This on end variance excludes expenses related to the Renewable Energy Standard or RAS energy efficiency similar regulatory programs as well as the 2011 first quarter settlement of transmission rights away costs all of which were essentially offset by comparable revenue amounts.
Third lower infrastructure related costs increased earnings by $0.03 per share reflecting both lower interest charges and lower depreciation and amortization associated with the 20-year license extension granted last year by the NRC for the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station.
Those cost reductions were partially offset by higher property tax related to tax rates.
Fourth the net impact of all other items decreased earnings by $0.03 per share.
Finally our first-quarter 2012 earnings benefited $0.02 per share because of the Arizona (inaudible) plants that were placed in service last year and earlier this year.
The net effect of other miscellaneous items increased our gross margin by $0.03 per share.
Lower usage by APS retail customers compared against last year's first quarter decreased our quarterly results by $0.04 per share.
Weather normalized retail kilowatt hour sales were down 0.9% in the quarterly comparison after accounting for the effects of our ACC approved energy efficiency and demand side management programs.
Customer growth of 0.8% over a year ago levels helped offset the decline in kilowatt hour sales.
The effects of weather variations decreased earnings by $0.03 per share.
This year's first quarter was warmer than normal with residential heating degree days lower than normal by 17%.
Turning to slide nine and looking at our fundamental growth outlook in the Arizona economy.
Economic growth in Arizona continues to improve in the first quarter although modestly.
As shown on slide nine growth in non-farm jobs and consumer spending are both slightly ahead of the prior year's levels.
In particular the rate of overall job growth has set up well for almost a year and virtually all of the major industrial sectors are experiencing some growth.
Other indicators like income growth and the unemployment rate also shows steady improvement although the patterns remain uneven.
Additionally APS' customer base grew 0.8% in the first quarter which is the strongest growth we have seen in three years.
All-in-all these trends indicate that the Arizona economy is headed in the right direction even though we have significant headwinds to contend with.
Unemployment remains too high and vacancy rates in housing and commercial real estate only marginally lower in their peaks of 2010.
One bright spot has begun to emerge in the demand for industrial space in the Metro Phoenix region with vacancy rates down some 20% from their peak but other sectors are seeing only slow absorption of excess space.
We believe that this situation will continue to restrain new construction and higher levels of growth for at least two to three years.
Over the long term though we remain confident in Arizona’s fundamentals.
We expect customer growth in [inaudible] to return to stronger levels as the national and state economic environments improve.
Looking at the next several years we currently expect annual customer growth to average about 1.6% for 2012 to 2014.
Additionally we expect our average annual weather normalized retail sales in kilowatt hours to be relatively flat from 2012 through 2014 primarily due to APS’ energy efficiency programs offsetting a modest recovery in the economy.
Finally I want to comment on our liquidity and financing plans.
At the end of the first quarter the parent company had no short-term debt outstanding.
APS had $217 million of short-term borrowings and both have ample liquidity.
Our higher credit ratings have provided APS and the parent company improved access to short-term funding as well as lower cost funding through the debt capital markets.
As we previously indicated we do not intend to issue earnings guidance for 2012 until after the final decision has been rendered in APS’ pending retail rate case.
However to assist with your estimates a list of key drivers that may affect 2012 ongoing earnings is included in the appendix to today's slide.
Additionally if the constructed element in the pending retail rate case is approved by the Arizona Corporation Commission.
We would be comfortable with our ability to fund APS’ capital expenditure program with no new equity needed until 2013 at the earliest.
And with that I will turn the call over to Don.
Don? Thanks Jim.
And thank you all for joining us today.
I will update you on developments in the following areas.
Arizona regulation and APS’ pending retail rates supplement our investments in generations including renewable resources and our overall operating performance.
I will start with APS’ pending rate settlement.
On January 6 we filed a proposed settlement of APS’ pending retail rate case which was signed by 22 of the 24 active parties to the proceedings.
Very late yesterday the Arizona Corporation Commission’s Chief Administrative Law Judge issued her recommendation that the settlement be improved without material modifications.
Collectively the settlement terms would produce a net $0 change to existing change to existing base rates 2012 an important benefit for APS customers.
In addition to the base rate change is a settlement contained a number of key financial provisions which we discussed during last quarter’s conference call.
Details of the settlement as well as key underlying assumptions are outlined on slides 13 to 17 in the appendix to your slide space.
The settlement contains a number of benefits for our customers the communities we serve and our shareholders.
Notably the requested regulatory treatment would build upon the constructive framework established in the 2009 settlement and provide financial support for APS will help us achieve Arizona’s energy goals over the next four years.
The settlement also includes a four year stay out for the next general retail rate case.
Under this provision APS’ may file its next general rate case on or after May 31 2015 for based rate to become effective not earlier than July 1 2016.
We believe several factors will support us financially during the stay out period.
These factors include first APS’ rate adjustment mechanisms such as the power supply adjustor and the transmission cost adjustor.
Second provision to allow APS to seek rate adjustments related the Four Corners acquisition if it is can’t submitted and I’ll review the Four Corners progress momentarily.
Third certain features of settlements such as the lost fixed cost recovery mechanism and the property tax deferrals.
And finally our continuing focus on cost management and operational excellence.
Looking at key procedural dates the parties to the case have until May 11 to file any exceptions to the ALJ’s recommended order.
Thereafter the Commissioner will consider a settlement at an open meeting which has not been yet schedule.
APS and other settling parties have requested that the settlement become effective to July 1 of this year and that’s supported by the judges recommended.
We view the settlement agreement as a further sign or progress in Arizona regulatory environment.
With its broad based support the settlement demonstrates significant collaborations and cooperation among APS the ACC staff and the variety of other parties.
We appreciate the opportunity to continue to work with Arizona Corporation Commission and the various stakeholders to enhance the state’s regulatory framework and to find solutions of balance of the interested customers shareholders and other stakeholders.
Turning to the Four Corners plan we continue making progress on our plan to acquire Southern California Edison’s interest in the Four Corners plant in Northwestern New Mexico.
The multi-part plant addresses environmental regulations while maintaining a well balanced resource portfolio.
It has substantial merits economically environmentally and socially.
A summary of the plan is included on slide 18.
The acquisition requires approval by Arizona California and federal regulators and other government agencies.
Noteworthy progress has been made in this regard.
On April 18 the Arizona Corporation Commission authorized APS to proceed with the acquisition and to defer certain transaction related cost until the acquired generation is played in to retail rates with a condition that the transaction may not close prior to December 1st of this year.
The commission established a closing date parameter to reduce the cost impacts of the transaction on customers.
Separately as I have already mentioned APS suspending retail rate settlement contains a proposal that would permit APS to seek to reflect the Four Corners transaction in retail rates on or after July 1 of 2013 if it is [inaudible] submitted.
In addition the California Public Utilities Commission approved the transaction for Southern California Edison on March 29.
Other conditions that must be met prior to closing the transaction include negotiation of the new coal supply contract approval by the Federal Energy regulatory Commission expiration of the Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period and other typical closing conditions.
We remain optimistic about our pending remaining approvals and completing the related required activities to allow the completion of our Four Corners plant in a timely manner.
Turning to renewable resources and our AZ Sun development activities; we were on track with plans to increase the amount of renewable energy APS provides for our retail customers.
Under the AZ Sun program APS plans develop and own up to 200 megawatts of utility scale portable take solar plants in Arizona.
The projects that we placed in service in 2011 through 2015 and the Arizona Corporation Commission has approved the program with a constructive rate recovery mechanism.
To-date we have announced AZ Sun projects that have a total production capacity of 104 megawatts at an estimated capital investment of $451 million.
A summary of the program is included on slide 19.
In late 2011 and earlier this year we placed three new AZ Sun plants into commercial operation adding a total of 50 megawatts of solar capacity to APS’ generation mix.
Construction and other development activities are currently underway at two sites for another 54 megawatts and we anticipate these facilities will be placed in service in late 2012 and in 2013.
Additional planning and procurement activities are in various stages for the balance of the capacity needed to complete the AZ Sun program.
Our renewable energy initiatives particularly AZ Sun are important measured steps toward advancing Arizona’s sustainable energy future.
These projects also support our economy.
New solar and wind plants to serve APS customers have created more than 2400 design engineering and construction jobs for our state.
We are pleased that APS’ accomplishments installing and promoting solar power have been recognized by a number of independent third parties.
For example in April APS was named one of the top 10 Solar Electric Utilities in the United States by the Solar Electric Power Association.
Looking at our operating performance our base load nuclear and coal fleet continues to perform well.
During the first quarter our Palo Verde nuclear facility operated at a 94% capacity factor.
This capacity factor reflects the fact that Unit 3’s refueling outage began during the quarter on March 17th and that 32 day outage was successfully completed on April 17th making it the second charters to refueling outage in the Palo Verde site’s history.
The chartered duration demonstrates Palo Verde’s commitment to reducing its average refueling outage time while maintaining its commitment to safely and efficiently generate electricity for the long term.
The site’s next refueling outage will be Unit 2 this fall.
Our coal-fired plants also continued their run of solid performance.
Turning to the quality of our customer service in February of this year JD Power &amp; Associates released the results of its most recent Business Customer Survey.
I am pleased that APS continues its record of performance excellence in overall customer satisfaction.
In the most recent results APS ranked fourth nationally among 47 large investor owned electric utilities.
More specific to our region we were rated second among 10 investor owned utilities in the West.
In addition for the third consecutive year APS was awarded the environmental protection agencies highest honor for continuing leadership and protecting the environment through energy efficiency programs.
The EPA’s ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award recognized two APS program for promoting energy efficiency and reducing Greenhouse gas emissions.
In summary company aims to achieve top tier performance and our employee team constantly try to meet that objective in every facet of our business.
Going forward I assure you we remain focused on our core utility business operational excellence and achieving a constructive regulatory outcome.
All for the benefit of our customers our shareholders and the communities we serve.
Operator this concludes our prepared remarks and we would be pleased to take questions at this time.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is coming from the line of Shar Pourreza with Citigroup.
Please state your question.
Just a quick question Jim I know you mention that you would look to issue 2012 APS guidance following a final order in the GFC and then Don did a great a job presenting some growth drivers outside of base rates during his prepared remarks.
Given that you could be in a multi-year duration under the settlement could you also issue some kind of EPS growth trajectory during the stay-out period when you begin to issue guidance again? Thank.
A great question Shar and the answer to that is yes.
And if you remember our last settlement we issued guidance over a couple of year period and we would look to do some sort of EPS growth looking over the settlement period again to give investor’s comfort of our ability to manage through that.
Our next question is coming from the line of Kevin Cole with Credit Suisse.
Please state your question.
Yeah I was just checking whether for AGA it will mid 90 so we can is it still too early to have any really cooling driven weather at all or how does that….
A couple of weekends ago we had a record 106 degrees we believe on Saturday and Sunday.
It’s gotten hot here before in May.
I think you might have a pleasant visit for AGA.
And so I guess with the Four Corners approval a couple of weeks ago does this impulsively approve the $300 million of environmental CapEx then also treatment of Units 1 2 3?  From a CapEx perspective I would say no.
From units 1 2 and 3 the answer would be yes.
And what is the process for getting the $300 million of environmental CapEx approved? Well assuming we close we will put our CapEx plan pain upon when that’s needed to be in service 2016.
The 2018 will be in design and engineering work for the plant which is consistent with what was filed in our IRP back on March 30th?  And then with the $700 million of equity I think you guys kind of agreed to in the last settlement I guess from my chair it doesn’t look like you need that much and from an expensive form of financing.
With this new settlement are you able to rebase that number or does it kind of nullify the previous number? It does not nullify it Kevin but obviously if we don't believe we need that amount of equity by 2014 we will certainly make our case to the settlement parties in 2009 and I would not expect that they would want to issue the most expensive form of cost of money if it's not needed and keep in mind too since that last settlement in 2009 we have been upgraded as well which helps the situation.
Our next question is coming from the line of the (inaudible) with Goldman Sachs.
Please state your question.
So with an earnings uplift likely upcoming pending the implementation of new rates how do you think about dividend growth you have been kind of in a flat dividend trajectory for the last couple of years.
How do you think about that going forward? Well obviously assuming the settlement is approved and the ability really to have a sort of runway now to the next filing I would expect a dialog with the board on the appropriate dividend level for Pinnacle West going forward? Okay but you haven't talked about historically a targeted dividend payout level have you? No and I don’t think we would specifically say a payout level.
I think we would consistent with earnings growth of X look at a dividend growth rate of X minus or something to that regard as opposed saying an explicit payout ratio.
Thanks Jim and any notable changes from this morning's announcement in terms of the settlement terms with ALJ recommendation? No And then the last question I had has there been any update in terms of what happened with the Southwest utilities outage last year there's been some headlines that's been coming across our screens here? The report out at this point that's all we know is the report’s out.
The next question is coming from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
So one of the things that jumped out from the release was while you are seeing some signs of pick up in economic growth you also had significant impact of energy efficient from energy efficiency and demand side management in the quarter? That's correct.
So can you refresh our memories on how the recovery writer prospectively will work to sort of incentivize you to continue to sue those and/or compensate you for continuing to pursue those types of savings? Sure the mechanism of loss fixed costs recovery mechanism envisions that we will file the first recovery in March of 2013 and it recovers that distribution fixed costs associated with lost cells through those mechanisms.
So assuming approval of this as filed prospectively there will be an offsetting revenue to the extent that you see incremental energy efficiency driven load reductions?  That's correct.
I would not characterize it as a one that will offset but you do get a partial revenue pick up from what's lost through the programs.
And you currently do not get anything like that correct.
Correct.
Okay.
Second question with regard to financing plans you said 2013 at the earliest for equity but when I just think about regulated utility model the fact that filing a rate case till 2014 for at the earliest 2014 for rates in ’15 and that you have an historic test period what are the factors that are going to go into the timing of the equity issuance it would seemed to me that it would be reviewed sort of try time it more concurrently with when you would need to update your capital structure for the next rate review which is some time away.
Yeah Greg I think you are exactly right there that it would be certainly no sooner than we needed and the driving force would be rebalancing our capital structure going into that test year.
Our next question is coming from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Jim I wanted to just be clear the Four Corners acquisition assuming that it does close as planned.
The earnings that you are to book for that increment will that be timed with when it goes into retail rate base? In other words July 1 onwards of ’13 is when we should see earnings? That's correct Ali.
Okay.
And the four year or so stay-out period I know the segment obviously has not been approved yet but assuming it is should we also assume as you will be planning through that time period that you are fairly confident that ROEs will be maintained.
We won't see any erosion.
Is that a fair way to be thinking about that period when you have the stay-out? Well I think to say you wouldn't see any erosion over that timeframe is probably a bit strong.
I think depending upon factors including our ability to have CapEx at the right level and control expenses I think over the timeframe you would see ROEs in the mid 9s.
And lastly I just clarifying you’ve made a couple of comments on the need for equity in the future but how much of that is also been driven by liquidity and credit rating concerns.
As you said you've been obviously upgraded and so on but you know in terms of what would be causing you to issue equity in 13 if you were to do it? What are the main issues in your mind obviously the rate case would not be one of them? That’s correct and back to Don's earlier comments.
We’re not going to issue equity any sooner than we needed but I think the factors that go into that are obviously liquidity which we have ample liquidity.
So I am not necessarily worried about that but we do have to watch our credit ratios as well which will be part of the equation.
And that’s going to be driven obviously by fund some operation CapEx going forward.
I mean I think there is a balance there between try to maintain ratings and not pile on too much debt but it's going to be the latest long as possible.
Our next question is coming from the line of Brian Russo with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please state your question.
Just to follow on the equity needs question.
Could you maybe be more specific on the target ratios that we should monitor that you know maybe to equity or push equity out and preserve your credit rating? Sure from a regulatory ROE our regulatory equity layer our last case was 539 which was our actual capital structure long before that was 538.
So it's in that range and at sort of a consolidated level it's 50-50.
What we also have to monitor is imputed debt and the other factors that S&amp;P puts into the rating.
And in terms of when Four Corners gets added into rates I guess July of ‘13 will there be some regulatory lag in terms of when the purchase is completed no earlier than December of ‘12 and we could see some incremental D&amp;A and operating expenses without the rate offset is that accurate?  Well we get to defer the cost associated with four and five.
We get a debt return.
So the real lag from an earnings perspective is just the offset of the equity return.
It’s more of a cash flow issue than it’s going to be a book issue during that timeframe.
And then lastly just could you remind us how the property tracker works is there any sort of cap and inherent risk of under recovering those taxes? Well so the deferral started 25% in 2012 and ramps up to 75%.
So yeah there is a risk there obviously of property taxes.
The assessment rates continue to go up.
Property tax assessment rates typically are about 18 month lag to values.
So it’s really depend upon what happens in and around in property values in Arizona between now and the next decade.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is coming from Jim Krapfel with Morningstar.
Please state your question.
Hi recent net migration from Mexico has recently turned negative for the US; (inaudible) is going to have impact on the growth opportunities? It won’t have an impact on us at this point.
Keep in mind our migration into Arizona really follows job opportunities and that’s not going to happen until we see the absorption of housing and construction pickup again.
Our next question is coming from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please repeat your question.
Just on a touch basis you guys on sales growth you guys are projecting flat sales growth growing forward and that’s because of customer growth being offset by energy efficiency; correct? That’s correct Paul And what would it be without energy -- what is the energy efficiency impact and is this completely APS’ efforts or is it just stuff that we are seeing as well in other parts or others efforts that might be going on underway? Well that’s pretty hard to track exactly Paul but I would say I know we have energy efficiency standard and a distributor generation standard.
We can track pretty much what we’re doing; customers are also doing things as well.
But primarily I would say yes it’s the ACC compliance program that’s involved.
And what is that versus what the -- what would the growth rate be with out your efforts I guess? Well over this time frame probably slightly less than 2% Little over 2% growth correct?  Correct.
For the quarter you had a decrease in sales growth of 0.9% was that adjusted? That’s correct.
And does that include leap year? Yeah it would.
So it would even be lower; I mean is there anything in particular with this quarter that would still be causing that or is that something that…? The leap year is one day out of three months and the first quarter is not a big sales month for us so not a big impact from that.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the floor back over to management for closing remarks.
Thank you again for joining us today.
As always if you need further details about our earnings or other information about our company please contact us.
This concludes our call.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation’s 2012 second quarter earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions).
It is now my please to introduce your host Ms.
Rebecca Hickman Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Ms.
Hickman you may begin.
Thank you LaTonya.
I’d like to thank everyone for participating in this conference call and webcast to review our second quarter 2012 earnings recent developments operating performance.
Our speakers today will be our Chairman and CEO Don Brandt and our CFO Jim Hatfield.
Jeff Guldner who is our APS Senior Vice President of Customers and Regulations is also here with us.
Before I turn the call over to our speakers I need to cover a few details with you.
First the slides to which we refer are available on our Investor Relations website along with our earnings release and related information.
Please note that the slides contain reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Also all of our references to per-share amounts will be after income taxes and based on diluted shares outstanding.
It is my responsibility to advice you that this call and our slides contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations and the company assumes no obligation to update these statements.
Because actual results may differ materially from expectations we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements.
Our second quarter 2012 Form 10-Q was filed this morning.
Please refer to that document’s forward-looking statements cautionary language as well as the MDNA section which identifies risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
A replay of this call will be available on our website for the next 30 days.
It is also available by telephone through August 9<sup>th</sup>.
At this point I’ll turn the call over to Don.
Thank you Becky and thank you all for joining us today.
Since our last conference call we’ve made progress in a number of key areas as we focus on our core electric utility business.
This progress includes demonstrating improvement in the regulatory environment in Arizona maintaining operational excellence strengthening our financial profile and positioning ourselves to benefit from economic recovery.
Jim and I will provide more information on each of these areas through our remarks today.
The regulatory environment in Arizona took another step forward when APS’s retail rate settlement was approved on May 15<sup>th</sup> by the Arizona Corporation Commission.
The decision came 11 ½ months after the case was filed the quickest resolution of a major Arizona utility rate case in recent memory.
Supported by 22 of the 24 active parties to the case the settlement shows significant collaboration and cooperation among APS the Arizona Corporation Commission and other parties as well as a comprehensive commitment to an expedited process.
The settlement contains a number of benefits for our customers the communities we serve and our shareholders.
Details of the agreement as well as key underlying assumptions are outlined in the appendix to our slides today.
The settlement prevents base rates from increasing for four years but it is not a rate freeze.
Under the agreement APS may file it’s next general rate case on or after May 31<sup>st</sup> of 2015 for new base rates to become effective on or after July 1<sup>st</sup> of 2016.
That said we believe a number of factors will allow us to achieve competitive financial performance during the stay-out period.
Aspects related to that settlement include first APS’s rate adjustment mechanisms.
All of APS’s rate adjustment mechanisms will continue to function throughout the stay-out period.
These mechanism include among others first the preferred formula rates and the related retail transmission costs adjusted which beginning in 2013 can pass annual changes in the preferred formula rate to APS retail customers without explicit ACC approval because of the settlement.
Next the renewable energy surcharge which allows for recovery of AZ Sun plant additions and then the loss fixed cost recovery mechanisms which was adopted in the settlement to mitigate the loss of certain fixed costs related to energy efficiency programs and distributed generation.
And finally an enhanced environmental improvement surcharge which will allow APS to collect up to $5 million annually for certain carrying costs on government-mandated environmental capital projects.
Second a carve out for the proposed Four Corners acquisition.
This provision will allow APS to seek rate adjustments as early as mid-2013 if the acquisition is consummated as we currently plan.
I will review our progress in the Four Corners plan momentarily.
Third provisions to mitigate certain cost increases.
These features include deferrals of portions of higher property taxes attributable to tax rate increases and 100% pass through of fuel costs through the power supply adjuster.
And finally without a time-sensitive base rate case litigation process in the next few years we can focus fully on operational excellence efficiency and discipline cost management.
This settlement builds upon a constructive framework established in the 2009 settlement and provides financial support for APS that will help us achieve Arizona’s energy goals over the next four years.
In a related manner on July 18<sup>th</sup> the Arizona Commission approved the 2012 retail transmission cost adjuster increase.
The rate change which became effective August 1<sup>st</sup> will increase annual revenues $18 million.
As I mentioned earlier beginning next year any future changes can automatically go into effect June 1<sup>st</sup> of each year without separate Arizona Commission action.
We appreciate the opportunity to continue to work with the Arizona Corporate Commission and various stakeholders to further influence the state’s regulatory framework and define solutions that balance the interest of customers shareholders and other stakeholders.
Our selective capital investments position us well to reliably serve the needs of APS’s electricity customers while meeting goals for Arizona’s sustainable energy future and environmental compliance.
I’ll update you on two major components of our capital expenditures program; the AZ Sun program and the planned Four Corners acquisition.
Our renewable energy initiatives particularly the AZ Sun program are important measured steps towards advancing Arizona’s sustainable energy future.
Through AZ Sun APS plans to develop and own up to 200 megawatts of utility scale photoable take solar plants in Arizona within service dates from 2011 through 2015.
A summary of the program is included in the appendix to today’s slides.
This program is progressing on target.
To date we have placed in commercial operation three plants with a total of 50 megawatts of solar capacity.
Construction and other development activities are currently underway at two sites for another 54 megawatts.
We plan to place 19 megawatts into service late this year and the remainder into operation in 2013.
Additional planning and procurement activities are in various stages for the balance of the AZ Sun program.
We are continuing to make progress on our plan to acquire Southern California Edison’s interest in the Four Corners coal-fired plant in Northwestern New Mexico.
A summary of that plan is included in the appendix to today’s slides.
The plan has substantial merits economically environmentally and socially.
The acquisition requires approvals from Arizona California and Federal regulators and other government agencies most of which have been obtained.
Noteworthy conditions that remain to be met prior to closing the transaction include negotiation of a new coal supply contract reasonably acceptable to APS and approval by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
We continue to target closing of the acquisition late this year.
In addition to strategic capital investments excellence in day-to-day execution remains a top priority.
In the second quarter our operating results reflected that priority.
Palo Verde operated at a 93% capacity factor reflecting a portion of the planned refueling outage at Unit 3 which was completed on April 17<sup>th</sup> in 32 days.
The facility’s second shortest refueling outage to date.
On the customer service side of our business JD Power and Associates released the results of this year’s residential customer survey last month.
I am pleased that APS was ranked third best among 55 large investor-owned electric utilities continuing the recognition of our excellence and overall customer satisfaction.
More specific to our region we were ranked second among the ten investor-owned utilities in the West.
Looking to the future in late June I announced APS’s organizational changes and promotions to strengthen our leadership team and further enhance our operations.
First APS President Don Robinson will continue as a Senior Advisor and join me in the newly-created Office of Procurement while handing off his day-to-day operational responsibilities.
Second Mark Schiavoni has been named Executive Vice President of Operations.
In his new role Mark has responsibility of r operations except for nuclear generation and customer service.
Mark joined APS in 2009 bringing strong experience running Exelon’s Fossil Fleet and also at nuclear operations at two other utilities.
Third Jeff Guldner was named Senior Vice President of Customers and Regulation.
This move combines our customer service organization and APS’s interactions with Arizona and federal utility regulators under Jeff’s guidance.
To date Jeff has successfully headed our rate regulation efforts including leading the team that negotiated the 2009 and 2012 retail rate settlements.
Fourth the Information Technology organization now reports to Jim Hatfield who will focus that important group on increased efficiency and effectiveness that will benefit our entire company.
In addition we have hired a new Senior Executive in IT who brings impressive experience in this regard from a major financial services company.
Finally there were several senior manager promotions that will realign some of our operational areas under proven leaders.
I believe these changes to the senior management team support our company-wide focus on best practices and continuous improvement.
Over the past several years we have often spoke about cost management.
Following the theme of continuous improvement we will continue to look for ways to improve our cost while maintaining safety and operational excellence.
We have cross-functional management initiatives underway co-headed by Jiim Hatfield and Mark Schiavoni.
Jim will discuss those initiatives momentarily.
To close my remarks I’m very please where our company is today and very optimistic about our future.
With the retail rate settlement behind us we will continue achieving top-tier performance through focus on excellence and execution and continuous improvement something our talented leadership team and workforce do exceptionally well.
Now Jim will review our second quarter results credit rating upgrades and financing plans the outlook for this Arizona economy our cost management initiatives and our guidance for 2012 earnings and our financial outlook through the stay-out period.
Jim?  Thank you Don.
As Don said we continue making progress strengthening our financial profile.
Today I will discuss the following topics.
First I will discuss our second quarter results including earnings and the primary variances from last year’s corresponding quarter.
Second I will review recent upgrades of our credit ratings and our financing plans.
Third I’ll provide an update on the status outlook for the Arizona economy.
Fourth I will describe our cost management initiatives to which Don referred.
And finally I will discuss our guidance for 2012 earnings and our financials during the stay-out.
Slide 6 summarizes our reported and ongoing earnings for the quarter.
On a GAAP basis for this year’s second quarter we reported consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders of 122 million or $1.11 per share compared with net income of 87 million or $0.79 per share for last year’s second quarter.
Our ongoing earnings increased $0.34 per share.
For this year’s second quarter we had consolidated ongoing earnings of 123 million or $1.12 per share versus ongoing earnings of 86 million or $0.78 per share for the comparable quarter a year ago.
Slide 7 contains a reconciliation of our second quarter GAAP earnings per share to our ongoing earnings per share.
The amount for both quarters exclude results related to our discontinued real estate and our energy services businesses.
My remaining comments on the quarter will focus on ongoing results.
Slide 8 this displays the variances that grow the change in quarterly ongoing earnings per share.
First an increase in our gross margin added $0.35 per share compared with the prior year’s second quarter earnings.
Several pluses and minuses comprise of positive net variance and I will cover those items in more detail on the next slide.
Second lower infrastructure-related costs improved earnings by $0.06 per share reflecting both lower interest charges and lower depreciation and amortization associated with the 20-year license extension granted last year by the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station.
These costs reductions were partially offset by higher property taxes related to tax-rate increased.
Third higher operations and maintenance expense reduced earnings by $0.05 per share.
The expense increase was largely due to stock compensation costs resulting from improvements in the company’s stock price.
This O&amp;M variance excludes expenses related to the renewable energy standard or RES energy efficiency and similar regulator programs all of which were essentially offset by comparable revenue amounts under the adjustment mechanisms.
Fourth the net impact of miscellaneous other items decreased earnings by $0.02 per share.
Our second quarter 2012 earnings benefited $0.03 per share because of the Arizona Sun program and plans that were placed in service late last year and early this year.
This net variance is reflected in various line items on the income statement.
Turning to Slide 9 and the components of the net increase in our gross margins total gross margin increased $0.35 per share compared with last year’s second quarter.
The main components of that increase were as follows:  The effect of weather variations improved earnings by $0.23 per share.
This year’s second quarter was hotter than normal while the 2011 second quarter was abnormally mild.
This year residents of cooling degree days were 14% higher than normal and 51% over the comparable quarter a year ago.
The retail transmission cost adjusted rate increase that became effective July 1<sup>st</sup> of 2011 improved earnings by $0.05 per share.
Lower fuel and purchased power costs and higher mark-to-market valuations of APS’s fuel hedges net of related PCA deferrals improved earnings by $0.04.
The net effect of miscellaneous items improved our gross margin by $0.04 per share.
Lower weather normalized retail kilowatt hours sales decreased our earnings by $0.01 per share.
This variance reflects the effects of customer conservation and energy efficiency and distributed renewable generation initiatives which were essentially offset by customer growth of 0.9% over year-ago levels.
Slide 10 displays our investment-grade credit ratings.
In May after approval of the retail rate settlement both Moody’s and Fitch rate Pinnacle West and APS long-term credit ratings up one notch including an upgrade of APS’s senior unsecured debt to Baa1 and BBB+ respectively.
We are pleased the rating industry recognizes constructive conservatory outcome and are improving financial performance.
Regarding our planned financing activity we expect to issue debt upon the acquisition of SoCal Edison’s interest in Four Corners later this year if the transaction is consummated.
With respect to potential equity issuances [inaudible] successful completion of the retail rate settlement we currently project that we will not need to raise additional common equity capital until 2014 at the earliest.
The timing of any amount – the timing and amount of any issuance would facilitate balancing of APS’s capital structure and provide support for the company’s credit metrics.
Turing to Slide 11 and looking at our fundamental growth outlook in the Arizona economy.
Economic growth in Arizona continues to improve in the second quarter although the growth remains modest as has been the case for the last several quarters.
As shown on Slide 11 growth in non-farm jobs continue to show modest gains.
In particular the rate of overall job growth was – has held up well for over a year and virtually all the major industrial sectors are experiencing some growth.
The sustained growth in jobs has been helpful in supporting gradual growth and incomes and consumer spending and has pushed the unemployment rate down parallel with national trends.
However as I have discussed on previous calls significant headwinds remain to be overcome before we can expect the Arizona economy to begin growing robustly.
While consumer spending is above last year’s levels the rate of growth has declined I recent months unemployment remains persistently high and the amount of unoccupied housing continues to restrain the new home construction market.
On Slide 11 you can see our estimates of the amount of excess housing that presently exists in our service territory and metro Phoenix.
The good news is that the Phoenix economy has absorbed about 10 000 vacant homes and apartments since the peak of [inaudible] in 2009.
We believe we are on a page to further reduce those vacancies by the end of next year to a level of our existing home resale price will be more supportive of new home construction.
On Slide 12 you can see the recent trends in Metro Phoenix home prices as reflected in [inaudible] repeat sales index.
In recent months we have seen a slight rebound in pricing as the number of foreclosure sales have declined.
While we view this as a positive trend we also recognize that the single-family retail pricing has just recently returned to levels that we saw in early 2010 just past the peak of the recession.
More importantly these price levels are consist with the market for homes at the end of 2001 or 11 years ago.
This slide also shows that similar conditions are present in the commercial real estate market.
As you can see on the slide vacant rates for office and retail space have begun to fall from their peak levels but remain quite high.
Again we view this as a positive trend but believe that to the extent of vacant space in these markets means that the recovery for new office and retail construction will likely lag that for new homes.
Reflecting this modest steady improvement in economic conditions APS’s customer base grew 0.9% in this year’s second quarter compared with the same quarter a year ago and represents the strongest growth we’ve seen in three years.
Over the long term we believe the fundamentals that have been important to Arizona’s growth are still here and that our growth rate and customers will return to more typical levels.
Looking at the next several years we see current – we currently expect the annual customer growth to average about 2% for 2012 to 2015 with growth rates higher at the end of the period than in the near term for reasons I just discussed.
Additionally we expect our average annual weather normalized retail sales in kilowatt hours to be relatively flat in 2012 to 2015 primarily due to customer conservation and energy efficiency and distributed renewable generation initiatives offsetting the modest recovery in the economy.
Turing to Slide 13 and our cost management initiatives.
We are building on the cost management foundation with solid achievements in recent years.
As this slide shows we have been able to hold O&amp;M essentially flat since 2008.
In preparation for the recently settled rate case we reduced capital and operational spending by more than 30 million per year through several efforts such as our enterprise-wide supply chain initiative.
However we are cognizant that we cannot let cost escalate unchecked as customer growth and sales improve.
Our goal is to keep O&amp;M growth in line with retail sales growth.
However we will not sacrifice safety or operational excellence in order to do so.
To achieve continuous improvement we’re challenging employees throughout the company to find ways to be more efficient and effective in their jobs.
Additionally we have a number of corporate initiatives.
A company-wide cross-functional initiative underway to benchmark and evaluate various activities.
Recently we have identified and eliminated some duplication of efforts.
For example we have combined financial business analyst groups in my organization by consolidating previously these centralized functions we were able to create significant synergies.
Further progress is being made on cross-functional processes which will also create significant synergies.
Workforce attrition will provide opportunity to capitalize on efficiencies without the need for large layoffs.
We estimate that more than 220 will leave the company in each of the next 10 years due in large part to retirements as the baby boomers transition to the next phase of their lives.
Through process improvements we believe that we will be able to avoid replacing a significant number of those employees.
To minimize a loss of key knowledge as our workforce changes we are implementing programs to enhance knowledge transfer and ensure consistency and documentation of processes.
Finally I will discuss our earnings guidance and financial outlook.
As shown on Slide 14 we currently expect Pinnacle West consolidated ongoing earnings for 2012 will be in the range of 3.35 to 3.50 per share.
Using the middle of the range this reflects an improvement of approximately 15% over 2011 ongoing in earnings per share.
The key factors and assumptions that underpin our guidance are listed on Slide 16 in the appendix to today’s slide.
Looking ahead through the base rate stay-out period the company’s goal is to achieve an annual consolidated rate of return average common equity of at least 9.5% on average  through 2015 as shown on Slide 14.
This represents another step change in returns demonstrating the benefit to shareholders from our rate settlement.
This expectation reflects the financial support provided by the retail rate settlement and other factors and assumptions outlined in Slide 17 and 18.
In terms of capital expenditures we anticipate spend to average around $1.1 billion through 2015.
However approximately 45% will be addressed by the rate mechanisms Don alluded to and approximately 35% will be covered by depreciation cash flow.
This leaves minimal annual spend exposed to regulatory lag.
In closing we are confident in achieving our financial objectives through the stay-out period.
The gross margin mechanisms contained in the retail rate settlement coupled with our demonstrated cost management ability give us this confidence.
Additionally but not assumed in our outlook an accelerated return to our economic growth provide outside out outlook.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we would be pleased to take questions.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions).
Our first question comes from Greg Gordon with ISI Group please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning it’s actually Bill Episelli.
Hey Bill.
Hey just a question on the you know the outlook going out to ’15 I know you guys have given the guidance here of rate base growth from about 6% and off of an 11 base and you know you’re targeting the average ROE of 9.5% - I mean thinking not earning is how they relate to those metrics and I know that you’re good about talking about you know issuing equity in ’14 so there will it be some impact from that but I was just wondering if you could give additional thoughts on how the key pieces of earnings as it relates to base rate growth and then the – you know other pieces that you – you mentioned there at the end about the acceleration in the economy all the things that could drive the 9.5% higher off of the targeted base.
Well you know again and that 6% rate base [inaudible] – you do have equity in ’14 you do have a little bit of regulatory lag all though a lot of that has been mitigated and we’re assuming you know cost control.
If all those things come true and the economy recovers about a 1% customer increase equals 10 million in after tax earnings on average.
Since we’re assuming no sales growth over the 2015 we don’t think there is a lot of downside in the growth number and so that sort of gives you a [inaudible] of [inaudible] what may happen if we do see some acceleration.
Okay great and then on the sales growth outlook you know could you maybe desegregate the 2.5% in terms of how it’s getting offset through just to regeneration in energy efficiency?  No but since they break down we do – we assume compliance on energy efficiency which goes up every year and then – and then we have the renewable energy standard by ’15 and we do know that from a deployment perspective we’re slightly ahead of target – we can track those pretty good.
And so we feel that we have those two and we do have just some customer conservation in there due to continued lack of direction of the long term economy.
Okay and then just lastly – so if we think about growth if it were to say they hit 3% or 3.5% at some point over the life of the deal is that – so that’s netting out the 2.5% that you’re targeting so that’s how you get your sort of 1% of additional growth is that how we think about it?  No my one percent of additional growth is just the same as additional 1% - customers came out of the system normally you see to have gained about 10 million after tax earning.
Oh okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Neil Mehta with Goldman and Sachs please proceed with your question.
Hi thank you – so now that we’re through the rate case here as you said Jim cost control is so key so do you believe that you can keep going them flat throughout the stay out period assuming that retail sales are flat or is that more of an aspirational target?  It’s both aspirational but I have highly great confidence in our ability to do that.
We – you know the good news for me from a cost perspective is – you know what we’re trying to accomplish from the cost side is not just coming from the CFO – I have a good partner and [inaudible] loaning from the off side and together we are pretty aligned and pretty much seeing the same path going forward.
So I’m pretty confident now.
Got it [inaudible] and also with a rate base – your rate base behind us dividend growth comes into focus you had that dividend around $2.10 for a long time how are you think about the potential for dividend growth now?  You know Neil now that I think we have a runway out through ’15 I would expect you know the board will look at the dividend policy later this year.
<br> Got it and guidance…  Let me add to that traditionally our board’s a little bit the dividend level – the annualize dividend level at their October meeting and I think this year would be consistent with that the board will take a look at it and we’ve accomplished a lot in the last few years in rebuilding our balance sheet and getting our earnings up to a competitive level and I think those are all positive aspects going into the fall and the dividend decision.
Okay and then when do you intend to issue 2013 guidance?  Right now we’re attentatively planning to do it on our analyst day November 9<sup>th</sup>.
Perfect thank you thank you very much.
You’re welcome thanks.
Your next question comes from Shar Pourreza with Citigroup please proceed with your question.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Shar.
Can you just remind us with the current regional haze rules that’s coming about if your cap x outlook includes a state plan or a federal implemented plan?  Currently in terms of us the regional haze rule advise to all [inaudible] four corners Navaho and [inaudible] three and four.
The state proposed [inaudible] would be to install low nox burners in over fired air.
All thought the EPA recently rejected that and calling for more stringent expensive FCRs and what [inaudible] determined schedule for November of this year.
The EPA proposed to burn it for [inaudible] be the insulation on FCRs on units four and five it’s been in the transaction close and we don’t have a bared ruling from the EPA on Navaho at this time.
Is there a status on how much your cap x can increase assuming that the federal implemented plan gets inacted?  Excuse me? Is there a status on how much you cap x could increase assuming a federal implemented plan gets inacted?  Yes really it effects [inaudible] at this point and we don’t have – we have the state plan in there I think it’s about 182 million if we had to implement the rest of the EPA.
Yes FCRs on units two and three at [inaudible] would cost us about 182 million in additional CapEx.
Okay perfect thank you.
Our next question comes from Ali Agha with SunTrust please proceed with your question.
Thank you good morning.
Hey Ali.
To be clear to be guidance that you have for 2012 range the 9.5% [inaudible] should we assume that associate with the midpoint of that guidance or do you think about [inaudible] for 2012?  I think that the 9.5 really relates to ’13 through ’15 if you think about how we have that rate increase in the second half of the year and we have the mechanisms from the nine settlement in the first half of the year but – so I would suspect slightly to exceed the 9.5 in 2012 with a sort of a hybrid year.
I see okay.
And secondly also to be clear if I had [inaudible] the cap x that you have planned to have right now if I use [inaudible] does that translate into a 5% annual rate based growth?  Is it 5 or 6?  Well [inaudible] is from 2011.
Right so it would be…  I have – I even calculated from ’12.
Okay I thought in one of your slides that I may have seen 5% and I may be wrong there.
It would decelerate because you have four corners in 2012 which is a large piece of that component in ’12.
Right right.
Okay and thirdly on the equity issue that said that you don’t see before 2014 should we think of it really you know timing issue you needed for your next rate case or should we think of end of ’14 or maybe not there and from a size perspective for the last couple of [inaudible] actions be a good proxy of the size that we should be thinking about?  No proxy for size at this point and you know it wouldn’t be until ’14 at the earliest and we would have to get to ’14 to make a decision as to what we are going to do at that point.
Understood thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Russo – Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please proceed with your questions.
You mentioned the ongoing coal contract at Four Corners as the acquisition will be contingent on that.
Could you just update us on the timeline there and what are the major items of discussion?  We expect to get the transaction closed by the end of the year say around the first of December and we’re in active negotiations on the coal supply contract.
Like with most contracts it involves price.
Okay and then just to clarify on the 9.5% target ROE.
Is that utility earned ROE or is that the consolidated ROE which would include the $0.05 of parent track.
Consolidated.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from Kevin Cole – Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi Good Morning guys.
Congratulations on the very constructive rate outcome and change in (inaudible) Thank you.
I guess I have a little bit more just kind of I guess on the (inaudible) drivers.
So I guess the base approach that I should use is that given that you expect 6% annual rate based growth and a flat 9.5% earned ROE that your base EPS growth should be 6% and then that will likely be a little bit bigger in 2012 ‘13’ and ’14 due to the rate increase in the four quarters and that it could be it could start to taper off towards the backend a little bit due to the equity delusion in 2014 sometime?  Brian with 6% rate based growth it would be hard for me to see a path of 6% range growth whether normalized.
Because you do have the delusion at some point assumed throughout to stay out and you do and we’ll continue to have some regulatory lag.
So I would say it’s going to be south of that.
Okay should it follow the path of it being EPS growth being a little bit stronger in ’12 ’13 and ’14? And then kind of I guess taper off towards the backend due to that equity delusion? If you assume equity delusion in the backend yes that would be the case due to the delusion.
Okay.
And then Jim does your 2014 equity comment preclude you from doing like a forward sale or something like that on the back of the project (inaudible) later this year? We would not be precluded from doing anything at this point so.
Okay.
Lastly I guess can you put some collar around your dividend policy going forward during the four year rate sale? Well Kevin I think where we’re at now is pretty close to the conclusion of rebuilding (1) the company’s balance sheet.
Significantly adding some consistency to the Arizona Regulatory Environment both consistency and creditability with the expeditious resolution of the last settlement and the settlement before that that laid really the ground work going forward.
You just talked to Jim about earnings growth and earning at a minimum 9.5% ROE going forward and that kind of lays the groundwork.
(2)  The next step is we have had the dividend frozen for a number of years at the current level.
That’s something again that the board is going to address at our October board meeting in all likelihood.
And I think you’ll see a dividend path forward coming out this fall.
Great thank you.
That’s very helpful.
Again congrats.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jim (von Reesman) – UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Good Morning Arizona.
Hey Jim how are you? Good yourself   Great.
Hey a couple of questions.
You know this transportation highway bill whatever you want to call it that Congress passed.
Does that have any cash flow impact for you guys?   Well it could.
Our minimum funding requirements would drop under the highway bill as we understand the perimeters right now.
The result of dropping our funding Jim going forward is it drives our expense up.
And so at this point with the liquidity we have and a plan in place we’re still planning on funding at pre-highway bill levels which is somewhere in the $150 -$160 area ’13 through ’15.
Okay just kind of keeping along this whole cash flow things for a second.
Can you talk a little bit about or broadly speaking ’13 to’15 what your coverage metrics what you want them to look like or your capital structure targets.
And then maybe what the impacts of the absence of bonus depreciation starting next year is going to have cash flow?  Well a couple of thing on the Jim obviously are when we try to reach that at test year we’re very happy with our 53 -54 equity ratio for making purposes that obviously will fluctuate throughout the time frame just based on the fact that we’re not in a test year.
Our coverage metrics are fine.
We will realize that a lot of the bonus depreciation for tax purposes next year as well because we have a tax law set you know we have to carry forward.
So we’re very pleased with cash flow liquidity and our balance sheet at this point.
And it’s not going to deteriorate throughout the sale period.
Okay no worries thanks.
Once again ladies and gentleman to ask a question please press Star 1 on your telephone keypad.
Our next question comes from Charles Fishman – Morningstar.
Please proceed with your question.
All right thank you.
Assuming the Four Corners acquisition is consummated would the FCR installation for those two units come under the EIS or do you have to wait till the next rate case? They would come under the EIS once we started putting them into on the units and of course you’d like to try a time load so you can maximize that.
I’ll just point out that that EIS is capped about a roughly a $5 million revenue requirement on an annual basis.
So it won’t be one for one recovery but of course every little bit helps.
Okay that was it thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Patterson – Glenrock Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning and congratulations on the continuance improvements.
Good Morning Paul.
Just to revisit customer growth and I apologize if I missed this.
One percent customer growth in 2012 projected to double through the 2015 timeframe.
I’m just wondering what actually draws that?  Is it the economy and if it is what sort of the economic forecast that you guys have in that? Yes you’re right it sort of accelerates throughout through ’15.
What really drives that Paul is we don’t see the absorption of available homes are getting to a level until around the end of next year early ’14 where you’ll see the construction side will start again.
And of course when construction cycles starts that leads to retail sales which leads to other jobs which you know has a sort of snowballing affect.
So it’s just the natural digging out of the inventory that we have in Phoenix.
So there’s still a lot of migration into Arizona it’s just right now absorbing the home building is being delayed as a result.
Is that how we should think about it? Yes.
I mean we had at the peak somewhere around 35 000 available homes and apartments and we’ve absorbed about 10 000 roughly of those.
And until you get the construction cycle moving that will be the driver and it’s going to take some time.
Okay.
And then just in terms of that growth rate which seems to accelerate looks like you guys still you know the APS energy efficiency advantage here I mean you guys are still you know projection that you are going to be able to keep it flat throughout that period.
Or should we think that that’s going to be accelerating as well that growth rate.
I mean it’s impressive how you guys have been able to keep sales growth flat with the energy efficiency efforts.
I’m just wondering how we should think about that over time?  I think Paul we have increasing standards each year going forward so you’re going to see acceleration of those programs.
And we believe it’s going to offset the increase in customer growth through that timeframe.
Very impressive thank you.
Our next question comes from Eli (inaudible) -  Please proceed with your question.
Good Morning guys it’s Chris Shelton how are you?  Hey Chris.
Quick clarification I just want to see the so the 6% rate base growth is off of 2011.
I know the rate base that you filed for has put some tax as far… The question would be what’s the best for 2011 rate is?  2011 rate base was let see it was ACCE total was 5.7 at the end of ’11.
Okay and that excludes any of the construction work in progress or any of the…  Yes it would be your normal rate base for rate making purposes.
Okay great.
And then I know you used to have  a slide – prior to this you had a slide that had rate base growth of 5% through ’14?  Is that slide still approximately right for the (inaudible) or is the extra growth kind of coming from the ’15 timeframe.
The slide that we have had previously is still pretty much intact from a rate based perspective and obviously as we move to ’15 we’re starting to get into some environmental and some more growth type of projections.
Got it great.
Final question.
I know the equity layer at the utility will king of vary as we go through the years and (inaudible) you know in time for the next case.
What equity layer rage I guess do you see over the period?  You know Chris it stays above 50% throughout that timeframe.
It gets down to you know maybe 51 ½% but we have healthy credit metrics throughout the stale period.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot guys.
There are no further questions in queue at this time.
I would like to turn the call back over to management for closing comments.
Thank you again for joining us today.
As always if you have further questions or need other information please contact me and this concludes our call.
Greetings and welcome to the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2012 third quarter earnings conference call.
(Operator Instructions) It is now my please to introduce your host Becky Hickman Director of Investor Relations.
I'd like to thank everyone for participating in this conference call and webcast to review our third quarter earnings recent developments and operating performance.
Our speakers today will be our Chairman and CEO Don Brandt; and our CFO Jim Hatfield.
Jeff Guldner who is APS Senior Vice President of Customers and Regulations is also here with us.
Before I turn the call over to our speakers I need to cover a few details with you.
First the slides to which we refer are available on our Investor Relations website along with our earnings release and related information.
Please note that the slides contain reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Also all of our references to per-share amounts will be after income taxes and based on diluted shares outstanding.
It is my responsibility to advice you that this call and our slides contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations and the company assumes no obligation to update these statements.
Because actual results may differ materially from expectations we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements.
Our third quarter 2012 Form 10-Q was filed this morning.
Please refer to that document for forward-looking statements cautionary language as well as the MDNA section which identifies risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
A replay of this call will be available on our website for the next 30 days.
It will also be available by telephone through November 9.
At this point I'll turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Becky and thank you all for joining us today.
This year we've made progress in a number of key areas as we focus on our core electric utility business.
This progress includes demonstrating sustained improvement in the regulatory environment in Arizona making selective capital investments maintaining operational excellence strengthening our financial profile and positioning ourselves to benefit from economic recovery.
Jim and I will provide more information on each of these areas throughout our remarks today.
APS's retail rate settlement which was approved earlier this year became effective on July 1.
Details of the agreement as well as the key underlying assumptions are outlined in the appendix to our slides.
The settlement demonstrates significant collaboration and cooperation among APS peers on a Corporation Commission and other stakeholders as well as a proven commitment to expedite the retail rate case process.
The settlement contains a number of benefits for our customers the communities we serve and our shareholders.
Among other things first it provides a financial support APS needs to meet our customers' energy needs and to help achieve Arizona's energy goals.
Second the settlement provides measure of regulatory certainty for both customers and shareholders through at least mid-2016.
Third it provides rate gradualism through the use of a number of rate adjustment mechanisms.
This process will void the need for base rate increases every several years while allowing reasonable recovery that APS has prudently incurred expenditures in the interim.
And fourth it allows APS the opportunity to earn a reasonable return on equity.
That said we believe a number of factors will allow us to achieve competitive financial performance during this out-period.
Aspects related to the settlement include first APS's rate adjustment mechanisms which will continue to function throughout the stay-out period.
Among others these mechanism include preferred formula rates and the related retail transmission costs adjuster which passes annual changes in the formula rate through their APS retail customers.
The renewable energy surcharge which allows for recovery of AZ Sun plant additions and other renewable resourced program costs the new loss fixed cost recovery mechanism which was adopted in the settlement to mitigate the loss of certain fixed cost related to energy efficiency programs and distributed generation.
And an enhanced environment improvement surcharge which will allow APS to collect up to $5 million annually for certain carrying cost on government-mandated environmental capital projects.
Second a rate rider carve out for the proposed Four Corners acquisition and this provision will allow APS to seek rate adjustments as early as mid-2013 after the acquisition is consummated.
I will review the status of the Four Corners plan momentarily.
Third provisions to mitigate certain cost increases.
These features include deferrals of portions of higher property taxes attributable to tax rate increases as well as full pass-through of fuel costs through the power supply adjuster.
And finally without a time-intensive rate case litigation process in the next few years we can focus fully on operational excellence efficiency and disciplined cost management.
In a related manner on August 1 APS implemented an ACC approved increase in the retail transmission cost adjuster.
The rate change reflected APS's increased investment in transmission lines and will increase annual formula-based revenues by $18 million.
Beginning next year the settlement allows future transmission cost adjuster changes to go into effect June 1 of each year without requiring the expressed Commission action.
This change will synchronize wholesale and retail transmission cost recovery.
Turning into next week selections three of the five ACC Commission seats are on the ballot.
Incumbent Commissioners Sandra Kennedy Paul Newman and Bob Stump are running for reelection.
In addition three challengers are also running for the seats.
Republican Susan Bitter Smith and Bob Burns; and Democrat Marcia Busching.
Regardless of the party affiliation the three candidates who receive the highest number of votes will win the election and begin four-year terms in January.
Whatever the results of the elections we will continue working with the Corporation Commission and the various stakeholders to continue our collaborative focus on the states energy future.
Our capital investments position us well to reliably serve the needs of APS's electricity customers while meeting goals for Arizona's sustainable energy future and environmental compliance.
Today I'll update you on two major components of our capital expenditures program the AZ Sun program and the planned Four Corners acquisition.
Our renewable energy initiatives particularly the AZ Sun program are important measured steps toward advancing Arizona's sustainable energy future.
Through AZ Sun APS plans to develop and own up to 200 megawatts of utility scale photoable take solar plants in Arizona within service dates from 2011 through 2015.
This program is progressing on target.
To date we have commitments in place for a total of 118 megawatts with a projected capital investment of $504 million.
A summary of the program is included in the appendix to our slides.
To date we have placed three plants in commercial operation with a total capacity of 50 megawatts.
Construction and other development activities are currently underway at three sites for another 68 megawatts.
Of this amount we plan to place 19 megawatts at the Chino Valley site in Northern Arizona into service later this year.
We expect the reminder will go into operation in 2013.
Additional planning and procurement activities are in various stages for the balance of the AZ Sun program.
We are continuing with our plan to acquire Southern California Edison's interest in the Four Corners coal-fired plant in Northwestern New Mexico.
A summary of the plant is included in the appendix to our slides.
The plant has substantial merits economically environmentally and socially.
The acquisition requires approvals by Arizona California and federal regulators as we as other government agencies most of which have already been obtained.
Noteworthy conditions still must be met prior to closing the transaction including approval by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and negotiation of a new coal supply contract.
We expect to hear from them first by the end of this month and coal contract negotiations are continuing.
We intend to close the acquisition following satisfactory completion of these conditions.
Excellence in day-to-day operations remains our top priority and our third quarter results reflect this focus.
Throughout the summer our generating fleet turned in solid performance and our employees provided high-quality service all of them meeting and demands of our peak season.
During the third quarter our Palo Verde nuclear plant operated as a 98% capacity factor.
Currently Unit 2 is in a planned refueling outage which we've expected to be completed early this month reflecting a schedule of approximately 30 days.
Our fossil plants also operated well.
When appropriate we took advantage of low near-term natural gas prices by reducing output by our coal plants and increasing gas plant production.
In September we were again recognized for our sustainable business practices as Pinnacle West was name to the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index.
Our company has been included in the index for eight consecutive years.
Every year since the index was established and is one on only nine North American electric utilities included in the current index listing.
Over the past several years we have achieved a number of needed improvements to strengthen the company's balance sheet and other aspects of our financial profile while focusing on continuous improvement in operations to regulatory framework and cost management.
Continuous improvement is essential to maintaining operational excellence and they are achieving our current and future financial goals.
Last month we achieved another milestone when our Board of Directors improved the cash component of return for our shareholders by increasing the common dividend by about 4% effective with this year's December payment.
The board's decision to increase our dividend demonstrates the confidence we have in the fundamental strength of our business the Arizona communities we serve and our future growth prospects.
We are focused on delivering sustainable long-term growth and strong cash returns to shareholders.
To close my remarks I am very pleased with where our company is today and very optimistic about our future.
With the retail rate settlement behind us we will continue to achieve top-tier performance through our day-to-day focus on excellence in execution and continuous improvement areas in which our talented leadership team and workforce performed exceptionally well.
Now Jim will review our third quarter results the outlook for the Arizona economy and our guidance for 2012 earnings.
Thank you Don.
As Don said we continue making progress strengthening our financial profile.
Today I'll discuss the following topics: first I'll review our third quarter results including earnings and the primary variances from last year's corresponding quarter; second I'll provide an update on the status and outlook for the Arizona economy; and finally I will discuss our earnings guidance and our financial outlook during the retail base rate stay-out period.
Slide 6 summarizes our reported and ongoing earnings for the quarter.
On a GAAP basis for this year's third quarter we reported consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders of $245 million or $2.21 per share compared with net income of $255 million or $2.32 per share for last year's third quarter.
Our ongoing earnings were comparable to last year's third quarter.
For this year's quarter we had consolidated ongoing earnings of $245 million or $2.21 per share versus ongoing earnings of $246 million or $2.24 per share for the same quarter a year ago.
Slide 7 reconciliations our third quarter GAAP earnings per share to our ongoing earnings per share.
The amounts for both quarters exclude results related to our discontinued energy services and real estate businesses.
The most significant item excluded is a $10 million gain on the sale of our energy services business in last year's third quarter.
My remaining comments on the quarter will focus on ongoing results.
Slide 8 displays variances that drove the change in quarterly ongoing earnings per share.
First an increase in our gross margin added $0.16 per share compared with the prior-year third quarter.
Several pluses and minuses comprised as positive net variance.
And I'll cover those items in more detail on the next slide.
Second lower infrastructure-related cost improved earnings by $0.04 per share reflecting both lower interest charges and lower depreciation and amortization associated with the 20-year license extension granted last year by the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station.
These cost reductions were primarily offset by higher property taxes related to tax rate increases.
Third higher operations and maintenance expense reduced earnings by $0.10 per share.
The expense increase primarily consisted of: an increase in employee benefit cost; the effects of beginning amortization in this year's third quarter of pension and other post retirement benefit cost compared with deferral of such cost in 2011 pursuant to APS's retail regulatory settlements; and higher fossil generation cost resulting from more plant maintenance being completed in the third quarter of this year than in the same quarter a year ago.
This O&amp;M variance excludes expenses related to the renewable energy standard or RES energy efficiency and similar regulator programs all of which were essentially offset by comparable revenue amounts under the adjustment mechanisms.
Fourth the absence of certain items that reduced the company's effective tax rate in the third quarter of last year reduced earnings by $0.09 per share.
For example the federal research and experimentation credit expired at the end of 2011.
And it's not yet been extended by Congress although we expect them to do so.
Additionally last year's third quarter reflected tax benefits of a non-cash charitable contribution.
The net impact of other miscellaneous items decreased earnings by $0.04 per share.
Our third quarter 2012 earnings benefited $0.03 per share because of the Arizona Sun plants that were placed in service late last year and early this year.
The net variance is reflected in various line items throughout the income statement.
Turning to Slide 9 and the components of the net increase in our gross margin total gross margin increased $0.16 per share compared with last year's third quarter.
The main components of that increase were as follows: the APS's retail regulatory settlement which became effective July 1 improved gross margin by $0.21 per share all of which was comprised of a non-fuel base rate increase.
The company also stopped recording line extension fees received as revenues when the 2012 settlement became effective.
Retail transmission revenue increases improved earnings by $0.09 per share.
The transmission cost adjuster increase that became effective August 1 improved earnings by $0.02 per share.
Additionally in last year's third quarter we booked a catch-up adjustment to our formula rates that reduce 2011 third quarter results by $0.04 per share.
By comparison the absence of that adjustment in this year's third quarter improved the quarter-to-quarter comparison.
Finally the procedures for processing future retail rate adjustments have been streamlined by the 2012 retail rate settlement thereby allowing APS to accrue the estimated effects of a change in next year's formula transmission revenues.
The balance of that variance is primarily comprised of these accruals.
The net effect of miscellaneous items improved our gross margin by $0.05 per share.
The effects of cooler weather reduced earnings by $0.17 per share.
This year's third quarter was milder than normal while the 2011 quarter was abnormally hot.
This year residential cooling degree days were 15% lower than last year's third quarter and 5% below normal.
Lower weather normalized retail kilowatt hour sales decreased our earnings by $0.02 per share.
This variance reflects the effects of customer conservation energy efficiency and distributed renewable generation initiatives which were essentially offset by customer growth of 1.2% over year ago levels.
Turning to Slide 10 and 11 and looking at our fundamental growth outlook in the Arizona economy economic growth in Arizona continued to improve in the third quarter.
Although the growth remains modest as has been the case for last several quarters.
As shown on Slide 10 growth in non-farm jobs continued to show improvement.
The rate of overall job growth is increasing certainly and has been consistently positive for the last two years.
Virtually all of the major industrial sectors are experiencing some growth and the rate of growth is two-thirds faster than the rate seen in the nation as a whole.
The sustained growth in jobs has been helpful in supporting gradual growth and incomes and consumer spending and has pushed the unemployment rate down generally in parallel with national trends.
While these trends are positive we believe that we still have a few more quarters to go before we see local markets returning to a more normal condition.
On Slide 10 you can see our estimate of the amount of vacant homes and apartments that presently exist in our service territory in Metro Phoenix.
Vacancies have retreated by 35% from their peak in May 2009 and early 2010 which has sparked some renewed interest in the single-family housing market.
Permit activity has increased in each of last five consecutive quarters and finished the third quarter of this year 20% higher than that of third quarter of last year.
We believe we are on a pace to further reduce those vacancies by the end of next year to a level where existing home resell pricing will be more supportive of the new home construction.
On Slide 11 you can see the recent trends in Metro Phoenix home prices as reflected in the case shower repeat sales index.
In recent months we have seen an up tick in existing home prices as a number of foreclosure sales have declined and the level of housing demand has improved.
Even with the slight rebound on pricing affordability of single-family housing remains quite high by historical standards.
And we believe that condition has been particularly helpful in attracting property investors to increase shareholdings in their existing stock of housing.
The decline in vacancies and foreclosures and increases in prices are evidence of the continuing albeit slow progress of the housing market back to more normal levels.
This slide also shows that similar conditions are present in the commercial real estate market.
As you can see on the slide vacancy rates for office and retail space have begun to fall from their peak levels but remain quite high.
Well those for industrial space have fallen more dramatically.
Again we view this as a positive trend but believe that the extent of vacant space in the office and retail markets means a recovery for new office and retail construction will likely lag that for new homes.
On balance we see favorable albeit modest economic indicators which paint a picture of continuing steady recovery accompanied by sizable but diminishing hindrance.
Reflecting this modest steady improvement in economic condition APS's customer base grew 1.2% in this year's third quarter compared with the same quarter a year ago which represents a stronger growth we've seen in three years.
Over the long term we believe the fundamentals that have been important to Arizona's growth are still here and that our growth rate in customers will return to more typical levels.
Looking at the next several years we currently expect annual customer growth to average about 2% for 2012 through 2015 with growth rates higher at the end of that period than in the near term for the reasons I've just discussed.
Additionally we expect our average annual weather normalized retail sales in kilowatt hours to be relatively flat from 2012 through 2015 primarily due to customer conservation energy efficiency and distributed renewable generation initiatives offsetting the modest recovery in the economy.
Finally I want to discuss our earnings guidance and our financial outlook.
As shown on Slide 12 we continue to expect Pinnacle West consolidated ongoing earnings for 2012 will be in the range of $3.35 to $3.50 per share.
Using the middle of the range this reflects an improvement of approximately 15% over 2011 ongoing earnings per share.
The key factors and assumptions that underpin our guidance are listed on in the appendix to our slides.
We plan to discuss guidance for our 2013 ongoing earnings at our Analyst Day on November 9.
As Don discussed last month our Board of Directors increased the indicated annual dividend by $0.08 per share or about 4% to $2.18 per share effective with the December payment.
Slide 13 depicts our longer term financial outlook to the base rate stay-out period.
The company expects to achieve an annual consolidated earned return on average common equity of at least 9.5% through 2015 compared with APS's allowed return on equity of 10% under the settlement agreement.
This level represents another step change in earned returns demonstrating the benefit to shareholders from our rate settlement as well as our operational excellence and cost management initiatives.
This goal reflects the financial support provided by the retail rate settlement and other factors and assumptions outlined on Slide 16 and 17.
In terms of capital expenditures we anticipate spend to average around $1.1 billion annually through 2015.
However approximately 45% of this amount will be recovered through the rate mechanisms that Don outlined and approximately 35% will be covered by depreciation cash flow.
This leaves minimal annual spend exposed to regulatory lag.
Regarding our planned financing activity we expect to issue debt to fund the acquisition of SoCal Edison's interest in Four Corners at closing of that plant.
With respect to any potential equity issuances we currently project that we will not need to raise additional common equity capital until 2014 at the earliest.
Under the current schedule the timing and amount of issuance would facilitate calibration of APS's capital structure for the next general rate case which is assumed to be in mid-2015 with the 2014 test year and provide support for the company's credit metrics.
In closing we are confident we will achieve our financial objectives during the stay-out period.
A confidence supported by the gross margin mechanisms contained in the retail rate settlement coupled with our demonstrated operational execution and cost management abilities.
Additionally our outlook conservatively assumes a slow economic recovery and accelerated return to economic growth should provide upside to our outlook.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And operator we would be pleased to take questions at this time.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is coming from Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Don can I ask you to maybe articulate a little bit what the mindset is of the board around the dividends the $0.02 increase was much appreciated by your shareholders but I've heard from maybe a few of them that they had hoped for at least a modestly higher increase.
So what was the mindset of the board around that decision? And then second question on that front is the board going to be addressing the dividend annually in December or would you plan on sort of moving that date prospectively and ask them to think about the dividend increases on a different timetable? I'll answer the last one first probably we've continue to address it as the October board meeting.
There is no reason that couldn't change but that's traditionally been the time if there was a reason.
But I don't think we've changed it just to change it.
So that's about as best answer.
I think I'd focus on October for future years following some other changes.
Relative to how the management team and the board focused on the dividend one is focus on what would we do to create the most long term value for shareholders.
And in that regard our philosophy was a change in the dividend that would appear to be the least risky meaning I believe and our board the more secure that dividend of peers going forward the more shareholder value will create with the absence of uncertainty around it.
That certainly doesn't mean we're locked into this kind of an increase in the future.
But I'm also not telegraphing there is any change.
But as you know we've heard the stock over the last couple of years about our cost control initiatives and the projects that Jim Hatfield Mark Schiavoni our team helped for us over the stay-out period and the fact that we have 200 to 300 employees retiring each year and we're going to try to take as much advantage of those potential cost savings as possible.
And our forecast of sales is essentially flat.
And it's still very early stages.
There is some activity in the housing market.
And as you know we've got more than 25 000 empty homes in our service territory.
And when the market starts to return to normal whatever normal might it look like in future years that would be potential upside to earnings and obviously both the management team and board would take those potential positive developments in the consideration in future years.
On that front Don in talking to my housing analysts here we've seen what you're seeing in Phoenix and if you could collaborate it or not? That would be helpful as that there's been a slowdown in new home sales because there is simply a lack of supply.
And so do you think that that's true have you seen the front end of permitting activity that might cause sort of a year down the line.
A lot of the new homes to come on the market and do you also think that that might lead to a quicker absorption of the 25 000 existing homes because there's such lack of supply of new homes.
Yes.
It's a broad question.
I'll probably give you a broad answer too.
I know from our folks who deal with developers there is still continuing activity.
One thing we have heard is there is a labor shortage right now relative to what the severe downturn or basically the housing industry all that's shutdown the carpenters masons roofers et cetera.
But that's not the kind of thing and people in the housing business I've talked to that takes a year to develop that's where you recruit folks from other parts of the country and you might be talking a matter of months to solve some of the labor issues.
But with that said I guess we've got the 25 000 plus I think it's 27 000 of empty homes that are ready willing and able to be occupied at a very short notice.
And the local print paper you find online at azcentral.com there has been a number of almost every other day another story about changing in house prices and while there is some volatility the trend seems to be on the uptick.
Our next question is coming from Neil Mehta from Goldman Sachs.
Jim I think last time when I was out there we were talking about O&amp;M trends.
And I got the sense that you're looking to keep O&amp;M flat in 2013 and 2014 as you think about the expense pie where are those costs reductions coming from? Well I think we've been flat since '08 so I think any sort of non-essential expense has been eliminated.
I think Don alluded to this in his text which is we're going to have significant retirements over the next few years to consider that two-thirds of our people related costs that as we continue to improve our business processes in labor technology our ability not to replace each individual that leaves will be where we'll have to drop them.
And then on AZ Sun that's been a big success here and do you think that appetite to upsize the AZ Sun program? At this point I don't think so for a couple of reasons.
This thing runs through '15 so we'll have to see.
But from a capacity perspective we're in pretty good shape capacity-wise.
We'll be doubled at 2015 renewable energy standard so probably not near term and appetite to do anything more with utility scale.
Your next question is coming from Kevin Cole from Credit Suisse.
I guess more on Greg's question on the dividend is it your view I guess should I review that the 4% increase is a one-time up year-over-year or should I consider it to be stable through the stay-out or is it a stable longer term than that.
Well it's something we'll look at each year.
But I think our aspirations are to continue to grow the dividend.
We feel very confident and we'll talking more about the future earnings in connection with EEI in the next week or so.
And I think that would give you more insight into it.
Then I guess this 4% dividend growth imply a similar annual EPS growth rate through the stay-out or is that's a point that's coming at your Analyst Day? Yes Kevin we'll address that at the next Friday.
And then last question on leverage to an economic recovery I guess under the current rates and the LFCR what is your EPS leverage for every 1% move and in a lower order customer count? 1% move is about $10 million in net income so probably $0.09 or so.
Your next question is coming from Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc.
Jim you had mentioned one federal tax credit that expired and might it ticking up again would that apply retroactively? Well if it came back in or was extended in 2012 before the end of the year it would be applied retroactively to the year.
They could also extended in '13 and make a retroactive.
We'll have to wait and see what happens with that.
Our tax people feel like it's something that will be extended at some point.
And can you give more color on where the $0.09 from retail transmission came from that it seems awful big? Well I think there were a couple of things in there Paul.
First you had to switch gear at annual increase which was $0.02.
We also had about $0.04 to a catch-up adjustment last year which went against us.
So we didn't have that this year and that's another $0.04.
And then we begin booking in the third quarter now that we have a set schedule of June 1 every year through the 2012 settlement that we're sort of accruing next year's increase as we earn it throughout the year.
It's a same concept we're doing with LFCR which will apply for our filing on application next year but we're actually earning it this year.
Our next question is coming from Ali Agha from SunTrust.
In the appendix and the slides et cetera you guys talked about '12 through '15 a 6% annual growth in rate base.
Does that bake in all the expenditures that will be spent at that time or is there a scenario that growth could be stronger than that? That's our current plan Ali.
At this point absent something unforeseen like a quick recovery and growth next year sometime.
I don't see that we would have a rate base growth that's greater than 6%.
And Jim to your point earlier apart from some equity issuance that will come into play maybe sometimes in '14 is that the biggest disconnect we should think about between the 6% rate base growth and what an EPS growth commensurate with that should look like it's really some dilution at some point from equity is that a fair way to think about it? I think we have a couple of things Ali to think about.
And again we'll cover this more specifically Friday.
But you don't have perfect regulation so you're not going to get a dollar for dollar in that regard.
And then yes at some point we'll have some dilution as we calibrate the capital structure assuming we are on a next rate case.
And last question coming back to the dividend for a second.
So given where you are right now at least from a payout ratio perspective are you guys now comfortable that you are where you need to be relative to your benchmark peer group or do you have any thoughts on the payout ratio? I think we are comfortable where we are Ali.
Our next question is coming from Charles Fishman from Morningstar.
Don you brought up the fact that the election could change the composition of the Commission.
Is there anything that because of a stay-out there is really nothing that the new commissioners would have to hit the ground running on I mean there is no immediate decisions that would face.
I mean it's just really all you have to do is get them up to speed between now and when you file in 2014? Well we have the ongoing riders in that we'll continue communications.
But to answer your question Charles directly there aren't any big issues out there.
But its continuing monthly if not a weekly dialogue with the commissioners and their policy advisor's to keeping abreast to what's going on in the company and just from a relationship standpoint.
And then can I ask a question on Slide 26 the RES cost demand side management cost? Yes.
Quarter-over-quarter there is step down in the RES but that was due to the transfer of those cost to rate base with the settlement earlier this year is that correct? Yes.
Our next question is a follow-up from Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
So just a sort of a follow-up on I guess Ali's question.
If I just look at your slides and I know you'll probably be going to tell me I'm front running your Analyst Day by asking you this.
If I look at Slide 17 you say rate base is going to grow on average 6% annually.
You're saying that you'll earn at least to 9.5% ROE over the forecast period.
Jim you've said there's very little regulatory lag associated with your capital expenditures.
So absent equity dilution why wouldn't it be fair to presume that earning should grow in line with rate base growth? Well Greg I think you'll need to come back Analyst Day to get that answer.
How did that sound? Our next question is coming from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just on the election is there any potential that there could be a change in policies like renewals or whatever that could impact to you.
I know there's been sort of a back and forth between the Commission and the state legislature and what have you.
I'm just wondering if there is anything we should be thinking about in terms of what could happen there with respect to renewables or whether or not that could impact you guys? Well most of the issues were a year ago in the media between a legislature and Commission if fairly well died down.
And both parties in the year of the existing commissioners have been supportive over our past on renewable.
So I certainly can't and won't predict the outcome of any election much less the Corporation Commission.
But I don't foresee the need or the likelihood of any significant change.
And then with respect to just a housekeeping I guess I'm a little bit confused.
When I read maybe I'm reading something incorrectly but when I look at the press release on Page 2 it says that there was a decrease in retail sales excluding the effects of weather variations which reduced results by $0.02 a share? That's correct.
And then when I look at the statistical slides and again maybe I'm just misreading it.
It looks like retail sales gigawatt hour weather normalized was actually up on Page 4 and 5 in the statistical supplement? It does look like it's a lot.
We're not talking about this just sort of wondering about if I am reading it correctly if there was something missing? I saw that I just meant the total retail sales seem to weather normally seem to go up and if I was reading this it seemed like the effects of what you guys actually have seen it go down? Yes we did.
I'll have to look into that.
I'll get back to you Paul.
Thank you.
We have reached end of our question-and-answer session.
I'll turn the floor back over to Ms.
Hickman.
We thank you all for being with us.
We know that you have a number of calls today.
And if there is anything else that you need please contact me or one of us.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
We thank you for your participation today.
Greetings and welcome to the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2012 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Rebecca Hickman Director of Investor Relations for Pinnacle West Capital Corporation.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thank you Christine.
I'd like to thank everyone for participating in this conference call or webcast to review our fourth quarter and full year 2012 earnings recent developments and operating performance.
Our speakers today will be our Chairman and CEO Don Brandt; and our CFO Jim Hatfield.
Jeff Guldner who is APS Senior Vice President of Customers and Regulation is also here with us.
Before I turn the call over to our speakers I need to cover a few details with you.
First the slides to which we refer are available on our Investor Relations website along with our earnings release and related information.
Please note that the slides contain reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Also all of our references to per-share amounts will be after income taxes and based on diluted shares outstanding.
It is my responsibility to advise you that this call and our slides contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and the company assumes no obligation to update these statements.
Because actual results may differ materially from expectations we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements.
Our 2012 Form 10-K was filed this morning.
Please refer to that document for forward-looking statements cautionary language as well as the risk factors and MD&amp;A sections which identify risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in our disclosures.
A replay of this call will be available on our website for the next 30 days.
It will also be available by telephone through March 1.
At this point I'll turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Becky and thank you all for joining us today.
In 2012 we made progress in a number of key areas as we focused on our core electric utility business.
This progress included demonstrating sustained improvement in Arizona's regulatory environment making strategic capital investments maintaining operational excellence strengthening our financial profile and positioning ourselves to benefit from economic recovery in Arizona.
Jim and I will provide more information on these areas through our remarks today.
Looking first to Arizona regulation.
Early last month the composition of the Arizona Corporation Commission changed as the commissioners elected in November Bob Stump Susan Bitter Smith and Bob Burns were sworn in and Bob Stump was elected Chairman of the commission.
With 2 new members and commissioners Stump Brenda Burns and Gary Pierce continuing in office the commission is now comprised of 5 Republicans.
In January the commissioners unanimously approved APS's 2013 Renewable Energy Standard implementation plan.
The plan contains steps for continued compliance with the commission's Renewable Energy Standard and other APS commitments while balancing the need to moderate customers' bills and to support renewable energy.
Given our history over the past several years it is indeed a pleasant change for me not to be discussing a pending retail rate case.
APS's retail regulatory settlement that became effective July 1 2012 was progressive and contained broad-ranging benefits for our customers the communities we serve and our shareholders.
Among other things it provides the financial support APS needs to meet our customers' energy needs while helping to achieve Arizona's energy goals.
It also provides a measure of regulatory certainty for both customers and shareholders through at least mid-2016.
Third it allows retail rates to change gradually over time through a number of rate adjustment mechanisms.
Moderating rates this way will avoid the need for large base rate increases every several years while allowing reasonable recovery for APS's prudently incurred expenditures.
And finally it allows APS the opportunity to earn a reasonable return on invested common equity during the 4-year settlement period.
With that settlement in place we are continuing to work with the Arizona Corporation Commission and various stakeholders on a collaborative approach to the state's energy future.
Our capital investments position us well to reliably serve the needs of APS's electric customers while addressing Arizona's energy goals and environmental compliance.
Today I'll update you on 2 components of our capital expenditure program the AZ Sun Program and the planned Four Corners acquisition.
Our renewable energy initiatives including the AZ Sun Program taken together are an important part of a comprehensive resource plan designed to advance our state's energy future.
Through AZ Sun APS plans to develop and own utility-scale photovoltaic solar plants in Arizona.
To date we have commitments in place for a total of 118 megawatts with a projected capital investment of $502 million.
So far we have placed 4 plants in commercial operation with a total capacity of 69 megawatts.
The latest addition was 19 megawatts at the Chino Valley site in Northern Arizona that went into service on November 26 of last year.
Construction and other development activities are currently under way for another 49 megawatts at 2 sites in Southwestern Arizona called Yuma Hills and Hyder.
We expect those facilities will go into operation later this year.
We are continuing with our plan to acquire Southern California Edison's interest in the Four Corners coal-fired plant in Northwestern New Mexico.
The plan has substantial merits economically environmentally and socially and has already been approved by Arizona California and federal regulators as well as other government agencies.
In mid-December the Navajo Nation and BHP Billiton the parent company of the operator of the coal mine serving that plant announced that they had entered into a memoranda of understanding under which BHP plans to sell the coal mine operation to the Navajo Nation.
The Nation would retain BHP as the mine manager and operator until July 2016.
It's currently expected that the Navajo Nation Tribal Council will consider approval of their transaction in the second quarter.
APS has been negotiating a new coal supply contract for Four Corners.
Key terms of the new contract are being finalized by APS the other Four Corners co-owners and the Navajo Nation.
We expect that this agreement would be executed upon completion of negotiations and following the transfer of ownership of the stock of BHP's mine operation subsidiary to a new Navajo Nation commercial entity.
We are targeting mid this year to close APS's Four Corners acquisition from Southern California Edison following satisfactory completion of a new coal supply contract and finalization of other typical closing conditions.
Turning now to our operational excellence.
Excellence in day-to-day execution remains a top priority.
Our performance in 2012 reflected this focus.
I'll highlight just a few examples.
First Pinnacle West stock outperformed our industry.
We're pleased that our total return to shareholders comprised of stock price appreciation plus dividends was 10.3% for the year which compares very favorably with U.S.
electric utility average of just 0.1%.
Second our industrial safety record is one of our top accomplishments.
I am proud to report that in 2012 we had the lowest number of recordable injuries in our company's history bettering our record performance in 2011.
However every member of our team and I will continue to drive safety performance toward our goal of 0 injuries.
Third our baseload nuclear and coal fleet continues to turn in solid performance.
For the full year 2012 our Palo Verde nuclear facility operated at a site average capacity factor above 92%.
Palo Verde had its best production year ever topping its site record from 2011 and generating almost 32 million megawatt hours.
Additionally in 2012 Palo Verde was the top U.S.
power producer of any kind for the 21st consecutive year.
Furthermore Palo Verde is the only U.S.-generating facility of any kind to ever exceed 30 million megawatt hours in a single year and it did so last year for the eighth time.
Our fossil plants also have operated well.
When appropriate we took advantage of low near-term natural gas prices by reducing output by our coal plants and increasing gas plant production.
And fourth top tier reliability and other customer-focused efforts allowed APS to again achieve top decile customer satisfaction as evidenced by the company being ranked third highest nationally among 55 large investor-owned electric utilities by J.D.
Power and Associates.
In addition APS's system reliability continued to be in the best quartile of our industry on almost every reliability metric.
To close my remarks I'm very pleased with where our company is today and very optimistic about our future.
With the retail settlement behind us we expect we will continue to achieve top-tier performance through our day-to-day focus on excellence and execution cost management strategic forward thinking and continuous improvements areas in which our talented leadership team and workforce perform very well.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jim for the financial and economic overview.
Jim? Thank you Don.
Today I will discuss the following topics: first I will review our fourth quarter results including the earnings and the primary variances from last year's corresponding quarter; second I will discuss our 2012 full year results; third I'll provide an update on the status and outlook for the Arizona economy; and fourth I will review the recent upgrades of our credit ratings and our financing plans; and finally I'll discuss our earnings guidance and our financial outlook for the next few years.
Slide 6 summarizes our reported and ongoing earnings for the quarter.
On a GAAP basis for 2012's fourth quarter we reported consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders of $23 million or $0.20 per share compared with a net income of $13 million or $0.11 per share for the prior year's fourth quarter.
Our ongoing earnings increased $0.13 per share.
For the 2012 fourth quarter we had consolidated ongoing earnings of $27 million or $0.24 per share versus ongoing earnings of $12 million or $0.11 per share both for the same quarter a year ago.
Slide 7 reconciles our fourth quarter GAAP earnings per share to our ongoing earnings per share.
The amount for both quarters exclude results related to our previously discontinued operations.
My remaining comments on the quarter will focus on ongoing results.
Slide 8 displays the variances that drove the change in quarterly ongoing earnings per share.
First an increase in our gross margin added $0.22 per share compared with the prior year's fourth quarter.
Several pluses and minuses comprised this positive net variance and I will cover those items in more detail on the next slide.
Second lower infrastructure-related costs improved earnings by $0.06 per share reflecting lower interest charges and lower depreciation and amortization associated with a 20-year license extension granted for Palo Verde in 2011 by the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
These cost reductions were partly offset by higher property tax related to tax rate increases.
Third higher operations and maintenance expense reduced earnings by $0.08 per share.
The expense increase primarily consisted of the effects of amortization in this year's fourth quarter of pension and other postretirement benefit costs compared with the deferral of such costs in 2011 pursuant to APS's retail regulatory settlements.
An increase in other employee benefit costs and higher information technology costs primarily related to software these increases were partially offset by lower fossil generation costs because of less planned maintenance being completed in the 2012 quarter than the same quarter a year ago.
This O&amp;M variance excludes expenses related to the Renewable Energy Standard or RES energy efficiency and similar regulatory programs.
Fourth the net impact of other miscellaneous items decreased earnings by $0.07 per share.
Turning to Slide 9 and the components of the net increase in our gross margin.
Total gross margin increased $0.22 per share compared with last year's fourth quarter.
The main components of that increase were as follows: APS's retail regulatory settlement which became effective July 1 improved gross margin by $0.13 per share almost all of which was comprised of a nonfuel base rate increase.
The company also stopped recording line extension fees received as revenues when the 2012 settlement became effective.
The retail transmission revenue increase that became effective last summer improved earnings by $0.06 per share.
Higher weather-normalized kilowatt hour sales after the effects of customer conservation energy efficiency programs and distributed renewable generation increased our earnings by $0.06 per share.
The variance was primarily driven by modest customer growth of 1.4% in the quarter compared to the same quarter a year ago.
The net effect of miscellaneous items improved our gross margin by $0.03 per share.
Increased fuel and purchase power costs net of lower off-system sales and higher mark-to-market valuations reduced earnings by $0.03 per share.
This variance is a result of the Power Supply Adjustor modification effective mid-2012 with the implementation of the regulatory settlement that changed the PSA to 100% pass-through as compared to the 90-10 sharing mechanism that was previously in effect.
The effects of milder weather reduced earnings by $0.03 per share.
The 2012 fourth quarter was near normal while the prior year's fourth quarter was favorably cooler than normal.
Putting all this in context let's look at our full year comparison on Slide 10.
On a GAAP basis for the year 2012 as a whole we reported consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders of $382 million or $3.45 per share compared with net income of $339 million or $3.09 per share for 2011.
Our ongoing earnings for 2012 were $3.50 per share compared to $2.99 per share for 2011.
Our 2012 ongoing earnings were at the top of our guidance range of $3.35 to $3.50 per share.
The performance was due largely to stronger-than-expected gross margin growth in the fourth quarter and continued cost management efforts.
Turning to Slides 11 and 12 and looking at our fundamental growth outlook in the Arizona economy.
Economic growth in Arizona continues to improve in the fourth quarter although the growth remains modest as has been the case for the last several quarters.
As shown on Slide 11 growth in nonfarm jobs continues to show improvement.
The rate of overall job growth is increasing steadily and has been consistently positive for the last 2 years.
Nearly all of the major industrial sectors are experiencing some growth.
In 2012 Arizona job growth was 1.5x higher than the national rate.
The sustained growth in jobs has been helpful in supporting gradual growth in incomes and consumer spending and this pushed the unemployment rate down generally in parallel with national trends.
While these trends were positive we believe that we still have a few more quarters to go before we see local markets returning to more normal conditions.
On Slide 11 you can see our estimate of the amount of vacant homes and apartments that presently exist in our service territory in Metro Phoenix.
The reduction in vacancies in 2012 was the greatest since vacancies peaked in late 2009 and early 2010.
The absorption has sparked some renewed interest in single-family housing market.
Permit activity has increased in each of the last 6 consecutive quarters and finished the fourth quarter 72% higher than in the fourth quarter of last year.
Year-over-year permits were 56% higher than 2011 levels.
We believe we are on pace to further reduce those vacancies by the end of this year to a level where existing home resale pricing will be more supportive of new home construction.
On Slide 12 you can see the recent trends in Metro Phoenix home prices as reflected in the Case-Shiller repeat sales index.
Throughout 2012 we saw an uptick in existing home prices as the number of foreclosure sales has declined and the level of housing demand improved.
Even with the rebound in pricing affordability of single-family housing remains high by historical standards and combined with an improving economy is a key support for the current housing demand.
The decline of vacancies and foreclosures and the increases in prices is evidence of the continuing progression of the housing market back to more normal conditions.
This slide also shows that similar conditions are present in the commercial real estate market.
As you can see on the slide vacancy rates for office and retail space have begun to fall from their peak levels but remain quite high while those for industrial space have fallen more dramatically.
Again we view this as a positive trend but believe that the extent of vacant space in the office and retail markets means that the recovery for new office and retail construction will likely lag that for new homes.
On balance we see signs of improvement in all economic indicators which paint a more -- a picture of continuing steady recovery.
But it will still be 12 to 18 months before the Arizona economy has returned to normal levels of economic activity and growth.
Reflecting this modest steady improvement in economic conditions APS's customer base grew 1.4% in 2012's fourth quarter compared with the same quarter a year earlier and represents the strongest growth we've seen in 4 years.
Over the long term we believe the fundamentals that have been important to Arizona's growth are still there and that our growth rate in customers will return to more typical levels.
Looking at the next several years we currently expect annual customer growth to average about 2% for 2013 through 2015 with growth rates higher at the end of the period than in the near term for the reasons I've just discussed.
Additionally we expect our average annual weather-normalized retail sales in kilowatt hours to be relatively flat from 2013 through 2015 primarily due to customer conservation and energy efficiency and distributed renewable generation initiatives offsetting the modest recovery in the economy.
Slide 13 displays our investment grade credit ratings.
In November Standard &amp; Poor's raised its corporate credit and other ratings on Pinnacle West and APS to BBB+ from BBB.
As you recall after approval of the retail rate settlement in May both Moody's and Fitch raised Pinnacle West and APS's credit ratings including APS's long-term credit ratings to the BBB+ level.
We are pleased that the rating agencies recognized the constructive regulatory outcome and our improving financial performance.
Regarding our planned financing activity we do not have any long-term debt maturing in 2013.
We do plan to issue debt to fund the acquisition that Don discussed of Southern California Edison's interest in the Four Corners plant later this year if the transaction is consummated.
Following successful completion of the retail rate settlement we currently project we will not need to raise additional common equity capital until 2014 at the earliest.
The timing and amount of any equity issuance would facilitate rebalancing APS's capital structure and provide support for the company's credit metrics.
Finally I will discuss our earnings guidance and financial outlook.
As shown on Slide 14 we continue to expect Pinnacle West's consolidated ongoing earnings for 2013 to be in the range of $3.45 to $3.60 per share.
The key factors and assumptions that underpin our guidance are listed in the appendix to our slides.
Slide 15 depicts our longer-term financial outlook.
Last October our Board of Directors increased the indicated annual dividend by $0.08 per share or about 4% to $2.18 per share effective with the December 2012 payment.
In addition we currently plan to grow the dividend by approximately 4% annually.
Of course future dividends are subject to declaration at the Board of Directors' discretion.
Pinnacle West's consolidated earned return on average common equity was 9.9% in the year 2012 compared with 8.8% in 2011.
The company's goal is to achieve an annual consolidated earned return on average common equity of at least 9.5% through 2015.
This level represents another step change in earned returns demonstrating the benefit to shareholders from the combination of our rate settlement with our operational excellence and cost management initiatives.
This goal reflects the financial support initiatives in the key factors and assumptions in the appendix.
While I am discussing longer-term factors I'd like to touch upon a few earnings and cash flow hot topics in the industry.
Our costs for pension and other postretirement medical benefits included in O&amp;M were up $12 million pretax in 2012 compared with 2011 including the effects of the deferrals prior to July 1 2012 and amortization since then pursuant to APS's retail regulatory settlements.
We expect the related O&amp;M costs to remain relatively steady if not decline somewhat over the next few years.
Our expectations also reflect a discount rate of 4.01% from -- for 2012 versus a 2011 discount rate of 4.42%.
Since bonus depreciation was extended for 2013 by the new tax act at the beginning of this year many of you have asked about the impact of the extension.
We estimate that as a result of the combination of provisions of the 2012 and 2010 tax acts total cash tax benefits from bonus depreciation could be up to $400 million to $500 million.
We anticipate these tax benefits will be fully realized by APS by the end of 2013 with the majority of the benefit having been realized by year-end 2012.
In terms of capital expenditures we anticipate APS's spend to average around $1.1 billion annually for 2013 through 2015 as shown in the Form 10-K.
However approximately 40% of this amount will be recovered through rate adjustment mechanisms and approximately 35% will be covered through a depreciation cash flow.
That leaves minimal annual spend exposed to regulatory lag.
With this capital spending level we continue to expect our rate base to grow at an average annual rate of 6% in 2013 through 2015.
In closing we are confident in our expectations to achieve our financial objectives through 2015 that is during the base rate stay-out period.
Our confidence is supported by the gross margin mechanisms contained in the retail rate settlement coupled with our demonstrated operational execution and cost management abilities.
Additionally our outlook conservatively assumes a modest economic recovery.
An accelerated return to economic growth should provide upside to our outlook.
And this concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we would be pleased to take questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Kevin Cole with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] I guess a broad question about 2013 guidance.
I just have a tough time keeping my numbers down towards the mid-point given that I really only see upward movement given the rate case the TCA the LFCR true-up Four Corners and the assumption of normal weather.
Is there any unknown risk that maybe I'm just not seeing that could possibly get you towards the bottom end of your guidance range? No.
I think we've laid out our story pretty effectively.
Just a couple points Kevin.
One we performed very well in 2012 and was able to get to top end of our guidance.
We set our guidance range last November and we got a lot to execute throughout the year.
And it's a little early to be changing guidance when we have all summer ahead of us which is really where we make our money.
Research Division</strong> So I guess weather aside I should -- if I just assume normal weather I should be towards the top end? I always plan to be in the middle of the range.
Our next question comes from the line of Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I'm taking a look at the appendices here and there are some moving pieces in the guidance relative to the Analyst Day.
Gross margin was down but it looks like O&amp;M operating expenses offset those as well as interest.
Can you talk about some of the assumptions that drove the changes to the appendix? Yes it's really just the delay in the Four Corners transaction.
Assuming a mid-year close in the 6-month or short rate cycle as opposed to getting the rate increase July 1 '13 it will be more like January 1 '14.
So it really reflects nothing but Four Corners.
Nothing else has really changed.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I wanted to confirm.
On bonus depreciation the number Jim you cited was $400 million to $500 million? Yes it's -- impact this year of about somewhere between $50 million and $100 million.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The slide where you talked about dividend growth of about 4% expected over the next 3 years or so Jim should we assume that that basically moves in line with EPS growth? Or how should we be thinking about that relative to EPS growth? Well what we've been talking about is rate base growth of 6% should lead to net income growth somewhere lower than 6%.
And if you will the dividend growth is sort of the floor so to speak on what we think is possible over the next few years.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because I mean if EPS growth is any greater than that then you're implying that your payout ratio would be coming down.
Slightly.
Very slightly.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And more near term coming back to '13 the Four Corners delay the rate increase going into effect let's say beginning of '14 if my math is right it's about $0.07 if you will delay in earnings in '13.
And I'm wondering is that a direct offset to that? Or is that within the band of the range that you've laid out? How should I think about that? That's within the band of the range that we laid out.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But my math makes sense to you? Yes it makes sense.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question is essentially the load growth assumption that you've made out there relatively flat going forward can you remind us the earnings sensitivity to let's say a 1% change in load growth? 1% change in customer growth is about $0.10 per share as a rule of thumb.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's customer growth.
Should I equate that to sales growth as well weather-normalized? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Sarah Akers with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> With the new makeup of the commission do you think there's any chance that the commission may reconsider the aggressive energy efficiency standards that are currently in place? Sarah this is Jeff Guldner.
They are certainly asking questions about the standard.
And so one of the discussions we've had at open meetings has been around how you do the performance or how you manage cost effectiveness.
And so as they look at that that has the potential to impact it.
There's also some things they are looking at with respect to how large customers like a mine is impacted by energy efficiency.
So there may be some changes from that but there's certainly discussion going on.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then are there any other potential regulatory issues or regulatory initiatives on your part that we should keep an eye on over the next 9 12 months or so? No I think probably the biggest thing is -- Sarah is we have some technical workshops now on the impact of net metering and that will be ongoing through the first half of the year.
Other than that they're like any commission who's looking at the impact to consumers of everything that's going on.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Jim could you just repeat something you said around the $1.1 billion of annual CapEx? Sure.
Research Division</strong> You said 40% had rider recovery and 35% had what? It's covered by cash from depreciation.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Ellinghaus with Williams Capital.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us any detail on what the loss from discontinued operations was in the fourth quarter? That's kind of a more substantial number than normal.
Yes.
It's specific to SunCor and it really is part of the final wind-down through bankruptcy of SunCor.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as far as the rating changes have transpired over the last couple of years are you satisfied where you're at now? And I'm really thinking in terms of future equity needs.
Do you have greater aspirations for credit ratings? Or can you just give a little color...
No.
We obviously always have aspirations for higher credit ratings but we're very happy the BBB level.
It's probably at or slightly above average for the industry as a whole.
And with the BBB+ we have more room so to speak than we had when we were BBB or BBB-.
So certainly would not issue equity with the stated goal of trying to raise the credit rating.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Charles Fishman with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> You achieved 9.9% consolidated ROE in 2012.
Can I assume that it is likely that will fall to the 9.5% range for '13? And is that -- can I equate that to about the mid-point of your guidance? No -- Charles Don Brandt here.
No I don't think you can equate that or assume that it will fall to 9.5%.
As we've communicated in the past we believe during this period of we're out of the regulatory environment or at least base rate cases we're looking at greater than a 9.5% return.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then declining as you get farther along in the stay-out or...
Well...
No it's -- it will be more than 9.5% each of those years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And then the -- on the financial outlook the bullet points you list I think the second last one with the -- for 2013 the decrease in interest expense that is all due to the delay in Four Corners? Yes primarily.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
The AZ Sun I'm sorry if I missed this how many megawatts did you put in 2012? And what's now the forecast for 2013 through 2015? Well we have 118 megawatts under development 69 of which were in service at the end of the year.
And we're in development currently of another 49 megawatts as Don mentioned.
And then beyond '13 we'll continue to work on the renewable energy plan which needs to be approved by the commission.
Okay.
And then on the -- the retail customer sales growth it looks like it's 1.5% and before it was 1%.
But the longer-term growth you're still sort of projecting 2%.
That's right.
And we expect that you'll get acceleration throughout the '13 to '15 period with higher growth at the end to get to an average.
That's right.
You guys mentioned that last time.
Just on the offset the 2.5% growth offset that you guys are projecting with renewables how much is the distributor renewable element of that? I'm sorry.
How much of -- I know it's energy conservation and efficiency.
But what's the renewable sort of distributed impact on that? It's about 1%.
Okay.
And does anything I mean -- I know that it's early and the previous question on what the ACC is looking into.
But is there -- do you have any -- do you guys feel more or less confident about -- or let me put it this way do you think that there's more upside potential in terms of sales growth given the tone of conversation and discussion that you're seeing at the ACC versus perhaps last quarter? No not where we sit today.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Fallon with SIR Capital Management.
I just had a question on the Four Corners milestones to the transaction actually closing.
What are the steps that need to occur between now and when it actually closes? Primarily the transaction between BHP and the Navajo Nation transferring the coal mine -- the coal mine operations.
And they have to reach an agreement first and then there needs to be a vote by the Navajo Nation.
Is that correct? Essentially.
And then the Navajo Nation Council has to approve it.
And after that occurs does the transaction just consummate at that point? Or is there an incremental step that needs to be done? We'll need to sign a coal contract with the Nation now that they have the mine and then it will be normal closing preparation and then closing.
Okay.
And once the transaction is actually completed what's the process that it moves into rate? And in particular is it purely a single issue of moving into the rates? Or is there any kind of a reopener or look at earned returns or anything like that? Well our settlement kept the docket open for the treatment of Four Corners upon acquisition and that calls for the deferral during a period of time where we file and get rates into effect.
I wouldn't call it a single issue rate case but there's already been an adjudication of the Four Corners purchase prior to that.
So I mean it'll be focused on just bringing Four Corners in.
Okay.
So as long as your equity ratio and earned returns are in line with expectations there's no reason to see those being revisited? I would not think so.
Okay.
And just the last thing.
Any update on the potential for transmission investments? Still working on it.
Ms.
Hickman we have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
Thank you Christine.
And thank you again for joining us today.
As always if you need further information about our earnings or other information about our company please contact us.
This concludes our call.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Becky Hittman Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Ms.
Hickman you may begin.
Thank you Kristine.
I'd like to thank everyone for participating in this conference call and webcast to review our first quarter 2013 earnings recent developments and operating performance.
Our speakers today will be our Chairman and CEO Don Brandt; and our CFO Jim Hatfield.
Jeff Guldner who is APS' Senior Vice President of Customers and Regulation is also here with us.
Before I turn the call over to our speakers I need to cover a few details with you.
First the slides to which we refer are available on our Investor Relations website along with our earnings release and related information.
Please note that the slides contain reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Also all of our references to per-share amounts will be after income taxes and based on diluted shares outstanding.
It is my responsibility to advise you that this call and our slides contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and the company assumes no obligation to update these statements.
Because actual results may differ materially from expectations we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements.
Our first quarter 10-Q was filed this morning.
Please refer to that document for forward-looking statements cautionary language as well as the risk factors and MD&amp;A sections which identify risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in our disclosures.
A replay of this call will be available on our website for the next 30 days.
It will also be available by telephone through May 10.
At this point I'll turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Becky and thank you all for joining us on the call today.
This year so far we have made progress in a number of key areas in our core electric utility business.
This progress includes first strategically adding generation resources; second continuing collaboration on Arizona's regulatory environment and energy future; third maintaining operational excellence; fourth strengthening our financial outlook; and finally positioning ourselves to benefit from economic recovery in Arizona.
Jim and I will provide more information on these areas through our remarks today.
Looking first to our generation resources today I'll update you on 2 components of our generation resource program utility-scale solar resource additions and the planned Four Corners acquisition.
As you know through AZ Sun APS develops and owns utility-scale photovoltaic solar plants in Arizona.
In early April we announced the 32-megawatt Gila Bend solar power plant which will be located about 70 miles southwest of Phoenix.
We now have projects in service or committed for a total of 150 megawatts with projected capital investments of $614 million.
To date we’ve placed a total of 86 megawatts in the commercial operation at 5 plant sites.
The most recent addition was a 17-megawatt first phase at the Yuma Foothills plant in Southwestern Arizona which went into service on March 19.
Construction and other development activities are currently underway for another 64 megawatts at 3 sites in Arizona Yuma Foothills Phase II Hyder II and the newly announced Gila Bend site.
We expect those facilities will go into operation in 2013 and 2014.
Also of note on the solar generation front we expect the 250 megawatt Solana power plant near Gila Bend to go into commercial operation this summer.
As a reminder APS has a 30-year purchase power agreement for all the output in the Solana plant which is being built and will be owned and operated by Abengoa Solar.
Solana is a concentrating solar trough plant with thermal storage capability for 6 hours after the sun goes down.
We're continuing with our plan to acquire Southern California Edison's interest in the Four Corners coal-fired plant in Northwestern New Mexico.
I'll outline the major steps of our plan.
Since late 2012 the Navajo Nation and BHP Billiton have been working on the sale of the coal mining operations serving the plant to the Navajo Nation from BHP.
On Monday the Navajo Nation Tribal Council approved formation of a special-purpose corporation to enable the mining operation transfer.
The tribal council bodes a significant positive milestone along the way here in our acquisition of the additional resources at Four Corners.
Negotiation between the Navajo Nation and BHP are still underway.
Key terms of the new coal supply contract for Four Corners are being finalized by APS the other Four Corners co-owners and the Navajo Nation.
We are targeting mid-2013 to close APS's Four Corners acquisition from SoCal Edison following satisfactory completion of the coal supply contract and finalization of other typical closing conditions.
Shortly after the acquisitions complete APS will file an application with the Arizona Corporation Commission to put the Four Corners additions into retail rates as permitted by the 2012 retail regulatory settlement.
We expect a decision and the related rate adjustments in early 2014.
Turning to Arizona regulation APS's 2012 retail regulatory settlement has positioned us well for the next several years.
However there are still regulatory developments underway in our state.
Several topics are currently in various stages of consideration and including among others the ACC's interest in one in understanding the impacts of the existing net metering policy for distributed renewables that is rooftop solar and this topic is being discussed in a series of APS-led technical conferences and we expect it to be the subject of a filing later this year.
And second examining the existing energy efficiency and renewable energy standards.
These reviews are expected to be undertaken through individual utility dockets and broad policy processes.
On these and other issues we're continuing to work with the commission and various stakeholders on a collaborative approach to the state's energy future.
We realize these policy issues require careful study and consideration to ensure that strong service reliability and fair prices are available to all customers that subsidies are both transparent and fair for all customers and that shareholder returns will support continuing needed investments in infrastructure.
Turning to our operational performance for a few minutes excellence in day-to-day operations remains a top priority.
Our baseload nuclear and coal fleet continues to turn in solid performance.
During the first quarter our Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station operated at a 99% capacity factor.
This year's plant spring refueling outage began in Unit 1 on March 30 and was completed last Sunday afternoon April 28.
The outage which was completed in under 30 days was the shortest in Palo Verde's history.
More importantly the outage was accomplished with 0 OSHA recordable injuries and also the outage set an industry-leading record for low-dose exposure.
My personal thanks for a job well done is going out to every member of the Palo Verde employee team.
Our fossil plants have also operated well.
Our coal plants have increased generations to take advantage of the higher near-term natural gas prices.
We continue to garner external recognition for our customer service and corporate initiatives.
Today I'll highlight a few recent items.
In February J.D.
Power and Associates released the results of its most recent business customer survey.
APS continues its record of top decile ratings for overall customer satisfaction.
In the most recent results and repeating its ranking from last year APS ranked fourth nationally among 44 large investor-owned electric utilities.
More specific to our region we were once again rated second among the 10 investor-owned utilities in the West.
We're pleased that APS's accomplishments installing and promoting solar power and promoting energy efficiency have been recognized by a number of independent third parties.
For example in April APS was again named one of the 10 ranking fourth solar electric utilities in the United States by the Solar Electric Power Association.
This year makes the sixth consecutive year APS has been on the list.
In addition for the fourth consecutive year APS was awarded the EPA's highest honor for continued leadership in protecting the environment through energy efficiency programs.
The ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award recognized APS for its role as a regional leader in energy efficiency and its ongoing involvement in 2 energy-efficient home programs.
And finally for the third year in a row Corporate Responsibility Magazine named Pinnacle West among its 100 Best Corporate Citizens based on the magazine's evaluation of U.S.
companies across a complete spectrum of environmental social and governance criteria.
To close my remarks I am proud of where our company is today and very optimistic about our future.
We expect to continue achieving top-tier performance through planning and execution in key strategic and operational areas in our core utility business areas in which our talented leadership team and workforce perform very well.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jim for a financial and economical overview.
Jim? Thank you Don.
Today I'll discuss the following topics: First I will review our first quarter results including earnings and the primary variances from last year's corresponding quarter; second I will provide a brief update on the status and outlook for the Arizona economy; third I will review our 2013 earnings guidance and financial outlook; and finally I will discuss a few other current financial topics.
Slide 6 summarizes our reported and ongoing earnings for the quarter.
On a GAAP basis for this year's first quarter we reported consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders of $24 million or $0.22 per share compared to a net loss of $8 million or $0.08 per share for the prior year's first quarter.
Our ongoing earnings increased $0.29 per share.
For the 2013 first quarter we had consolidated ongoing earnings of $24 million or $0.22 per share versus an ongoing loss of $7 million or $0.07 per share for the same quarter a year ago.
Slide 7 reconciles our first quarter GAAP earnings per share to our ongoing earnings per share.
The amount for first quarter 2012 excludes results related to our discontinued operations.
My remaining comments on the quarter will focus on ongoing results.
Moving to Slide 8 you see the variances that drove the change in quarterly ongoing earnings per share.
First an increase in our gross margin added $0.28 per share compared with the prior year's first quarter.
Several items comprised this positive net variance and I will cover those items in more detail on the next slide.
Second lower infrastructure related costs improved earnings by $0.06 per share primarily because of the lower interest rates of the current year.
Third the net effect of miscellaneous items improved earnings by $0.02 per share.
Fourth higher operations and maintenance expense reduced earnings by $0.07 per share.
The expense increase consisted largely of higher performance-based compensation cost resulting from improvements in the company's stock price and estimated full-year performance; higher employee benefit costs related primarily to the effects of the amortization in this year's first quarter of certain pension and other postretirement benefit costs compared with the regulatory deferral of such cost in 2012; and higher information technology costs.
These O&amp;M increases were partially offset by lower generation costs as a result of less plant maintenance being completed early in this year compared with 2012.
This O&amp;M variance excludes expenses related to the Renewable Energy Standard or RES energy efficiency and similar regulatory programs all of which were essentially offset by comparable revenue amounts under adjustment mechanisms.
Turning to Slide 9 and the components of our net increase in our gross margin total gross margin increased $0.28 per share compared with last year's first quarter.
The main components of that increase were as follows.
APS's regulatory settlement which became effective July 1 2012 improved gross margin by $0.13 per share almost all of which was comprised of a nonfuel base rate increase.
When the 2012 settlement became effective in July the company also began recording revenues from the new Lost Fixed Cost Recovery mechanism or LFCR and stopped recording the line extension fees as revenues.
Higher weather-normalized kilowatt hour sales after the effects of customer conservation energy efficiency programs and distributed renewable generation increased our earnings by $0.06 per share.
This variance was primarily driven by customer growth of 1.4% in the quarter compared to the same period 1 year ago.
In addition this variance reflects the effects of customers' usage patterns and related pricing.
The effects of weather variations improved earnings by $0.06 per share.
This year's first quarter was cooler or more favorable than normal while the 2012 first quarter was milder or warmer than normal.
In the first quarter residential heating degree days were 24% above normal and 47% higher than the comparable quarter last year.
The retail transmission revenue changes that became effective last summer improved earnings by $0.06 per share.
The net effect of other miscellaneous items increased our gross margin by $0.01 per share and an increased fuel and purchased power cost net of the higher off-system sales and lower mark-to-market valuations reduced earnings by $0.04 per share.
Turning to Slides 10 and 11 and looking at our fundamental growth outlook in the Arizona economy.
Economic growth in Arizona continued to improve in the first quarter 2013 although the growth remains modest and has been the case for the last several quarters.
As shown on Slide 10 the rate of overall job growth has been positive for the last 2 years and appears to be currently stabilizing around the 2% level.
Nearly all of the major industrial sectors are experiencing some growth.
The sustained growth in jobs has been helpful in supporting gradual growth in incomes in consumer spending and has pushed the unemployment rate down generally and parallel with national trends.
While these trends are positive we believe that we still have at a minimum a few more quarters to 1 year to go before we see local markets returning to more normal conditions.
On Slide 10 you can see our estimate of the amount of vacant homes and apartments that presently exist in our Metro Phoenix service territory.
In the first quarter of 2013 the number of vacancies has continued to fall such that we are currently at levels not seen since 2007.
These absorptions have sparked renewed interest in the single-family housing market.
We believe we are on pace to further reduce these vacancies throughout the remainder of 2013 to a level where existing home resale pricing will be more supportive of new home construction.
However homebuilders will need to acquire and develop land attract skilled labor and control building material costs.
On Slide 11 you can see the recent trends in Metro Phoenix home prices as reflected in the Case-Shiller repeat sales index.
Throughout 2012 we saw an uptick in existing home prices which has continued into 2013.
Even with the rebound in pricing affordability of single-family housing remains high by historical standards and combined with an improving economy is the key support for current housing demand.
The decline in vacancies coupled with the increase in prices is evidence of the continuing progression of the housing market back to more normal conditions.
This slide also shows that similar conditions are present in the commercial real estate market.
As you can see on this slide vacancy rates for office and retail space have begun to fall from their peak levels but remain quite high while those for the industrial space have fallen more dramatically.
Again we view this as a positive trend but believe that the extent of vacant space in the office and retail markets means that the recovery for new office or retail construction will likely lag after new homes.
On balance we see signs of improvement in all economic indicators which paint a picture of continuing steady recovery.
But it will still be about 1 year before the Arizona economy has returned to normal levels of economic activity and growth.
Reflecting the steady improvement in economic conditions APS's customer base grew 1.4% in this year's first quarter compared with the same quarter 1 year ago.
Over the long-term we believe the fundamentals that have been important to Arizona's growth are still here and our growth rate in customers will return to more typical levels.
Looking at the next several years we currently expect annual customer growth to average about 2% for 2013 through 2015 with growth rates higher at the end of the period than in the near-term for the reasons I just discussed.
Additionally we expect our annual weather-normalized retail sales in kilowatt hours to increase by less than 1% on average from 2013 through 2015 primarily due to customer conservation and energy efficiency and distributed renewable generation initiatives offsetting the modest recovery in the economy and customer growth.
Next I will discuss our earnings guidance and financial outlook.
As shown on Slide 12 we expect Pinnacle West consolidated ongoing earnings for 2013 will be near the top end of our guidance range of $3.45 to $3.60 per share.
The key factors and assumptions that underpin our guidance are listed in the appendix to our slides.
Our first quarter 2013 earnings benefited by $0.05 per share for more favorable than normal weather and from changes in customer usage patterns and related pricing.
As we do every quarter we will review our earnings guidance when we report second quarter results.
Further effects of weather customer usage factor continued execution on our cost initiatives and lower interest rates could cause us to adjust our guidance later this year.
Slide 13 illustrates our long-term financial outlook.
We continue to expect to grow our dividends by approximately 4% annually.
Of course future dividends are subject to declaration at the Board of Directors' discretion.
The company's goal continues to be an annual estimated -- annual consolidated earnings return on average common equity of at least 9.5% through 2015.
And finally I'd just like to discuss a few other financial topics.
Our recent financing activities include 3 transactions.
In March APS issued 100 million of 4.5% unsecured senior notes that mature on April 1 2042.
Net proceeds from sales of these notes were used to repay short-term commercial paper borrowings.
In April APS refinanced its $500 million revolving credit facility that would have matured in February 2015 with a new $500 million facility that extends through April 2018.
On May 1 APS purchased all 32 million of the Maricopa County 2009 Series C pushed control bonds which are expected to be remarketed within the next 12 months.
Looking ahead we still expect to issue debt to fund the acquisition of Southern California Edison's interest in the Four Corner's plant later this year if the transaction is consummated.
We also continue to project we will not need to raise additional common equity until 2014 at the earliest.
The timing and amount of any equity issuance would facilitate rebalancing APS's capital structure and provide support for the company's credit metrics.
Since bonus depreciation was extended for 2013 by the new tax act many of you have asked about the impact of the extension.
We estimate that as a result of the combination of the provisions of the 2012 and 2010 tax acts total cash benefits from bonus depreciation could be up to $400 million to $500 million.
We anticipate these tax benefits will be fully realized by APS by the end of 2013 with the majority of them have been realized by the end of 2012.
So in closing we're confident in our expectations to achieve our financial objectives through 2015 that is during the base rate stay-out period.
Our confidence is supported by the gross margin mechanisms contained in the retail rate settlement coupled with our demonstrated operational execution and cost management abilities.
Additionally our outlook conservatively assumes a modest economic recovery and accelerated return to economic growth should provide upside to our outlook.
And this concludes our prepared remarks.
So operator we'd be pleased to take questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> So I'm just looking at Slide 17 of your presentation where you lay out the drivers for the medium-term earnings outlook and to me there seems to be a modest but notable change there in that your prior guidance presumes relatively flat retail electricity sales volume growth through '13 to '15 and now you're assuming that you will actually see some modest growth.
So I just wanted to make sure I'm seeing that correctly that you have revised up your sort of net kilowatt hours sales growth assumptions? Yes Greg that's exactly right.
And we've seen now for 2 quarters positive sales growth.
And while we were assuming flat in the shoulder quarters for us which are the fourth quarter and first quarter it's hard to read a long-term pattern.
But at this point we do see very modest growth where we saw flat previously.
Research Division</strong> Well would you still -- with your base case still assuming that you earn under your authorized ROE wouldn't that give you the operating leverage to potentially close the GAAP towards the 10% growth aspiration? Oh absolutely.
Research Division</strong> 10% ROE aspiration sorry.
Yes absolutely.
Research Division</strong> The other thing that I'm wondering is whether you have any more refinancing opportunities that could further reduce your interest costs.
You commented on the potential for lower interest rates later in the year causing you to further revise your outlook.
Are you looking at opportunities for big maturities coming due that you could refinance lower? We don't have anything for the rest of the year other than what I talked about in my remarks Greg.
And I don't think we have another opportunity until '14.
Research Division</strong> And then where do you stand on sort of ongoing cost management opportunities? This is the first time in a decade that you haven't had to turn around and just file another rate case after resolving a regulatory uncertainty.
And last time we spoke you talked about a whole number of sort of operating efficiency and cost-cutting measures that you were looking at.
Is there any update on that? Yes.
I would say we're executing against our plan I'm very pleased on where we are.
If you look at the first quarter you really have a couple of drivers that caused the $0.07 comparison.
And one is the stock compensation and that's just based on stock price all-time high.
And the second is really the deferral amortization of deferral from our 2009 rate case on pension which theoretically we got recovery for in the nonfuel base rate increase.
So I'm very pleased.
The IT cost that I mentioned being higher quarter-to-quarter we've decided to make some strategic investments in IT that should drive down cost beginning 2014 and beyond.
So it's a very conscious thing on our part to take this opportunity to invest in the future.
Other than that costs would have came in flat year-over-year.
Greg Don here.
Let me add to that too as I know you and others that were out for our Analyst Day last fall saw the extensive presentations that both Jim and -- Jim Hatfield here and Mark Schiavoni covered and they're spearheading this effort with the entire officer team.
And I don't characterize it as you know as cost-cutting but we're putting in processes and -- that's better coordinated across operating units within the company streamlining some of the efforts.
And we're seeing the results of that.
I'm very optimistic about continuing results through the balance of this year and frankly for years well into the future.
Research Division</strong> So Don would it be fair to say if the economy in Arizona and Phoenix has continued to accelerate and you have some success in these cost control initiatives that Arizona Public Service is actually earning its authorized return? Is this sort of possible over the forecast period for the first time in a long time? Yes very much so.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Cole with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Don Jim I guess on the back of Greg's question does the stronger realized performance and I guess now expectations change your dividend recommendations to the Board from the 4% annual increase? Kevin we visit that with the Board in the fall at the October meeting and I think our aspirations that we've laid out at least right now remain the same going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess with the ACC's review of net metering in the states I think 22% energy efficiency standard is this a result in change of tone or realization that the programs are becoming increasingly regressive as they scale up? I guess is it also safe to say that the study has not become more accommodative towards net metering? I wouldn't characterize it as not more accommodating or less accommodating.
I think the -- both we -- right now we're in a series of information-gathering meetings and open to the public and interested parties voice concerns in that and our primary interest is to make certain that one all the parties and the commission understands what in fact the subsidies are that they're transparent and that there are some clear policy decisions being made going forward.
And our primary interest is creating a sustainable energy future for Arizona.
And clearly we've been supportive as the record indicates of solar across the board utility-scale owned by us utility-scale owned by others like Abengoa's project that will be the largest of its kind in the world when it's done in a couple of months.
And rooftop solar has been a big -- residential rooftop solar has been a big component.
And I expect it to continue to be so in Arizona.
Research Division</strong> Can you run any additional numbers to see how like what the impact of net metering or of energy efficiency if it gets like let's say beyond low-hanging fruit to something like the 10% order of magnitude? Like what sort of impact that has on these skewing rates from -- towards the lower income folks I guess skewing rates downwards? We've got a variety of different scenarios we've run and we've got the cost and that's what we're basically talking to all the parties about.
Here are the facts and how does -- going forward what might our recommendations to the commission what might be their recommendations to the commission on how to design rates to basically create an environment that's fair to all customers.
Our next question comes from Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> How are you thinking about the timing of your next rate case especially given some operational execution with the last couple of quarters? And how does that timing impact the way you think about issuing equity? Well as we said before Neil we have the option to file a case in May 31 2015.
We're not obligated to file a case so we'll obviously look at interest rates a lot [ph] of ROEs and how we're performing to make a determination there.
And as we've said before the commentary around 2014 assumes that that's a test year and believe we have the ability to not issue at '14 if '14 doesn't become a test year.
So we're really looking at equity.
At the same time we're really looking at what a test year scenario would be.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then related to transmission which has obviously been a big part of the rate base growth story here can you see upside to your transmission CapEx program over the next couple of years? Not over the next couple of years though.
No Neil.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally when is the earliest you would need new generation in Arizona? Well we don't see a need for baseload until into the next decade at some point.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> What was the impact of the roll-off of pension deferral? In terms of the quarter? Research Division</strong> Yes.
The pension deferral in the quarter I think was about $0.06.
Research Division</strong> $0.06? Is that going to be ratable through the year? It'll be ratable for the second quarter and then we'll have an even comparison from starting the July 1 2012 rate case.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jim listening to your comments fair to say that Q1 came in ahead of your internal budget? And was it weather? And can you just confirm that and how much ahead was it in the -- if we look at the final numbers? Well I'm not going to comment on how it compared to budget but I will say we were positive -- we were -- positively view the customer growth number and sales growth which obviously were ahead of expectations since we had talked about flat sales growth.
I think we're very pleased as well with the execution on the cost management side.
So we did have a good quarter and we are executing it to plan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And also to clarify your remark with regards to the range for the year clearly the bias is to the upside and is it -- I mean when you talk about load interest later in the year perhaps causing to go above that or reconsidering that can you just clarify that to your other remark that there is no refinancing opportunity for you for the rest of the year? So is it load growth or what would cause you to change that range of the year? Well I think we've like I said earlier we’ve had positive sales growth the last 2 quarters.
And I said I was talking to investors that we're very loathe to look at a fourth quarter first quarter scenario and talk about that's a trend because you get a lot of abnormalities on a shoulder quarter as it relates to revenue and pricing.
So continuation of load growth continuation of the execution of the cost management would be things to look at after the second quarter and just ensure that we're executing on the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And also to clarify the 6% rate base growth annual number '13 '15 period just -- I mean is that using the '12 actual and then -- and rolling it over '12 to '15 or is that '13 actual and then '13 over '15? It's '12.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> '12 actual to '15 on a compound annual basis? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
First question here just to make sure I heard you crystal clear.
You talked about guidance here.
You alluded to adjusting your guidance plan later this year.
Is that a 2Q update in your mind or do you really need to wait to the summer heating season? I just want to be very clear about that.
Well we review guidance every quarter and we'll review it again at the end of the second quarter.
And so I guess it would be -- I'd say it's ongoing from how we evaluate that.
And not to parse in about too much but given where you are relative to your targets thus far this year if you were to continue on the same trend could you make an assumption to say that you would be ahead of expectations by second quarter? Well we had $0.05 of weather to benefit.
I guess if that continued on $0.05 every quarter obviously we would be ahead of where we thought we would since it's a -- we assume normal weather.
But other than that I'm really not going to comment on comparison to internal budgets.
And then just a little detail here I wanted to follow up on from a transmission recovery perspective I think you had some positive changes year-on-year in terms of the timing of new rates.
Could you talk about that and what kind of upside -- of sort of year-on-year uplift that would provide...
Yes well we file every -- we'll file our formal rate on May 15.
We're still going through the formula now.
And those rates will go into effect on June 1 both at the FERC level and at the Arizona jurisdictional level.
We don't have a number at this point so I really can't talk magnitude.
But just to be clear when would they have conventionally gone into service or into effect? It would typically go into effect June 1.
Our next question comes from the line of Sarah Akers with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on the regulatory discussion.
I think you mentioned needing recovery of infrastructure investments.
I'm curious is there anything being discussed that could support new recovery mechanisms for CapEx that's not currently being covered by riders or initiatives approved in the last settlement? Nothing at this point Sarah.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just to go back to Greg's question on the sales growth as I recall you guys had expected 2.5% sales growth prior to the effects of conservation and energy efficiency and distributed generation.
Is that still the case? And do you guys expect less of the offset from distributed generation and energy efficiency or has that increased? Well it was around 2.5% as we got out to 2015.
I don't think anything's changed on the DE EE [ph] customer conservation side.
What we're seeing now is a little higher levels of customer growth I guess.
Okay.
Because it looks like it's the same number that you guys had expected before which was 2% annually when I look at these slides.
So I guess what I'm -- let me ask it more simply.
What is it that's driving the sales growth higher in your opinion? Is it a better economy? Just I mean -- or do you know? I mean I don't know.
I mean you guys mentioned that there were 2 quarters that came in good but I just was wondering if you could just elaborate a little bit more about what's driving it.
Yes Paul Don here.
I think it's a variety of factors.
One it's clearly a better economy I think some consumer confidence is coming back.
We see that in usage patterns also the housing inventory we're down to right at about 20 000 units of housing which is kind of equilibrium.
I wouldn't say we've got a homebuilding boom going on but they're -- homebuilders have become active.
They usually end up talking to us 12 to 18 months before projects go.
There are some homebuilding going on.
We've seen homebuilding prices -- or excuse me home prices come up since clearly last spring when real residential buyers as opposed to investors came into the market drove that.
So I think overall it's generally trended positive last 2 quarters.
Okay.
So then just when we look at sort of policies or what you guys are baking in in terms of policies for energy efficiency and distribution you guys haven't -- I mean because there has been some activity as you guys are obviously well aware of that might suggest you might get scaled back.
None of that's getting involved and this is sort of how we should think about it? Just basically sort of you’re sort of fine-tuning the estimates given what you're experiencing right now? Is that sort of how we should think about it as opposed to a significant change of policy outlook or something? Right.
I think that's correct.
We haven't assumed any kind of change in those underlying policies on the energy efficiency side.
Okay great.
And then just on the stock price impacting compensation what have you.
Could you -- is there a -- just to get a sense of the magnitude or sensitivity I guess is a better way to think about it.
Is there a sense you could give us in terms of if the stock continues to soar what that might mean in terms of hit to earnings whatever that might be? It was about almost $8 million for the quarter.
And I'd have to go back and look at what it was at the end of the year versus what it was at the end of the first quarter.
So basically if we took the price at the end of last year and we look at what it's done at the end of the quarter that would give us a sense as to -- that price impact created $8 million of pretax.
Is that how we should think about it? Yes all things equal that would be correct.
And that's pretax right? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Fishman with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Not being familiar with the rules and procedures of the Navajo Nation just want to make sure I understand this.
The committee that's been formed they have the final say on the coal mine transfer and then it's pretty much -- the path is pretty clear to the closing after that? Well the -- generally I'd say yes.
The Tribal Council is their governing body.
It works very similar to the United States Congress.
They approve it and the President of the Nation signs their legislation into law.
And this performed the special-purpose entity to hold the coal company that would presumably transfer from -- through acquisition from BHP over to the Nation they put that into play.
Now there are some final contract negotiations to be completed but essentially most of the legislation we and they need to complete the Four Corners steps is in place with the vote that was occurred earlier this week.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the concentrating solar plant your participation in that is strictly as in the form of a power purchase agreement.
You're not taking any operational risk on that correct? Right not at all.
So they produce it we take it and we pay for it.
Our next question comes from the line of Andy Levi with Avon Capital.
I think actually more of my questions were asked.
I'll just kind of throw one out there kind of left field for you to make you think a little bit.
But stock's done extremely well and congratulations on that.
And obviously your multiple also has dramatically increased relative to some of your peers who surround you smaller utilities.
What are your thoughts just on consolidation in general in your area? I think with the desert Southwest and specifically Arizona the intrinsic growth this year that gives us plenty to manage for many years into the future.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Fallon with SIR Capital Management.
Just to clarify does the -- do the economics of the LFCR all run through in the first quarter or are they accrued over the periods that they occur? And then did you accrue second half last year's benefit last year or did it all come in the first quarter? Yes we started accruing the LFCR in 2012 at the implementation of the rate settlement.
So we started in July 1 of '12.
Okay great.
And then the assumptions behind that the percentage recovery there's no change in that.
I think that's what Paul was asking you.
I just want to clarify.
No there's no change in the LFCR.
Okay.
And then in terms of the top end of guidance for this year the $3.60 does that equal APS earnings to authorize or is that a -- would that number be higher than the $3.60? The $3.60 does not have APS earning their authorized return.
Can you tell us what that would be? I'd have to calculate it.
I don't have the number with me.
Ms.
Hickman we have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
Thank you Kristine and thank you all again for joining us today.
As always if you need further details about our earnings or other information about our company please contact us.
This concludes our call.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the 2013 Second Quarter Earnings Call for Pinnacle West Capital Corporation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Paul Mountain Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Mr.
Mountain.
You may begin.
Thank you Latonya.
I'd like to thank everyone for participating in this conference call and webcast to review our second quarter 2013 earnings recent developments and operating performance.
Our speakers today will be our Chairman and CEO Don Brandt; and our CFO Jim Hatfield.
Jeff Guldner who is APS Senior Vice President of Customers &amp; Regulation is also here with us.
First I need to cover a few details with you.
The slides that we will be using are available on our Investor Relations website along with our earnings release and related information.
Note that the slides contain reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Today's comments and our slides contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and the company assumes no obligation to update these statements.
Because actual results may differ materially from expectations we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements.
Our second quarter Form 10-Q was filed this morning.
Please refer to that document for forward-looking statements cautionary language as well as the Risk Factors and MD&amp;A sections which identify risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in our disclosures.
A replay of this call will be available shortly on our website for the next 30 days and will also be available by telephone through August 9.
I will now turn the call over to Don.
Thank you Paul and thank you for joining us today.
This is a very special conference call for us.
It's Becky Hickman sitting at my side here and this is her last call that she'll sit at my side in her long career here at Pinnacle and APS.
And I've enjoyed working with Becky for 10.5 years.
She's been here a lot longer than that and she'll be retiring in just a few weeks.
And Becky I know I speak on behalf of the dozens of people on this call.
The APS team and myself personally thank you very much for all your contributions to our company our shareholders and the State of Arizona.
You've been a good partner and I'm proud to call you a friend.
Thanks Don.
Back to the business at hand.
During the second quarter we made progress towards our financial targets by executing on our strategy.
Another solid quarter operationally and financially gave us the confidence to raise our 2013 guidance.
At the same time we focused on several regulatory policy issues in Arizona which I'll cover first.
I'll also provide an operational update and Jim will discuss the results of the quarter and update you on our earnings guidance and financial outlook.
Now turning to Arizona regulation for a few moments.
In its open meeting on May 9 the Arizona Corporation Commission voted to reexamine the facilitation of a deregulated electric market in Arizona.
The commission opened a docket and set a procedural schedule to solicit comments from interested parties on the pros and cons of retail market deregulation.
Responses were submitted July 15 with reply comments due August 16.
In the comments APS submitted on July 15 we encouraged the commission not to trade Arizona's long record of affordable rates reliable service and customer satisfaction for the risk and uncertainties associated with deregulation.
The commission stated it plans to convene an open meeting after it's had an opportunity to review the written comments.
And the meeting has not been scheduled but we expect it to take place in September or October of this year.
On July 12 of this year we filed APS's proposed solution with the commission on a policy revision for net metering.
The proposal was developed after we held 6 technical conferences this spring with various stakeholders.
The primary issue with net metering is fairness among customers who have rooftop solar and those customers who do not.
APS's net metering proposal is built around 2 options either of which would ensure that APS residential customers who install rooftop solar pay a fair price for their use of the electricity grid but also receive upfront cash incentives and appropriate compensation for their solar energy production.
There is no set procedural schedule on this docket but we expect extensive dialogue with resolution later this year or early next year.
Now turning to our Four Corners power plant.
In light of the docket being opened on deregulation we determined in June that it would not be prudent for APS to complete its acquisition of Southern California Edison's interest in Four Corners until the commission's intentions with regard to deregulation become clear.
In the meantime we intend to maintain all necessary regulatory and other approvals to ensure the necessary steps to complete the acquisition remain on track.
Additionally our team also worked with the United States EPA to seek a necessary extension from the July 1 to the December 31 of this year for the required notification of APS's decision on the best available retrofit technology or as it's called BART for Four Corners.
Now turning to the rest of our operations.
The Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station had another solid operational quarter with a capacity factor of 90%.
As I discussed on the first quarter call the spring refueling outage at Unit 1 was completed in less than 30 days the shortest in Palo Verde's history.
Palo Verde continues its very strong performance and a recent evaluation by the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations has validated that it is one of the best-run nuclear facilities in the nation.
INPO indicated that overall performance at Palo Verde which is as you know the nation's top energy-producing facility is excellent.
I'm extremely proud of the Palo Verde team and commend our Chief Nuclear Officer Randy Edington and the entire workforce at Palo Verde for the high standard that is consistently maintained throughout the plant every single day.
They have instilled a culture of continuous improvement with a focus on safety and excellence in all aspects of their operation which is our goal throughout the APS organization.
This is also demonstrated by the recent announcement by the Arizona Division of Occupational Safety and Health that Palo Verde is one of the safest workplaces in Arizona naming it a Voluntary Protection Program STAR Site.
APS also continues to be a leader in utility-scale solar.
The completion of Yuma Foothills Phase 2 and the Hyder II project later this year will grow our AZ Sun platform to 118 megawatts in commercial operation by the end of this year.
In addition work will begin this fall on the 32-megawatt Gila Bend plant which is expected to come online in mid-2014.
As part of APS's Renewable Energy Standard implementation plan filing that we made on July 12 of this year APS is seeking approval to conduct RFPs sign contracts and begin construction on the final 50 megawatts of its 200-megawatt AZ Sun Program.
We also expect the 250-megawatt Solana project to reach commercial operation in the third quarter with APS purchasing 100% of that power which is a key step to meeting our Renewable Energy Standard target.
Solana is a concentrating solar trough facility the largest of its kind located 70 miles southwest of Phoenix.
The concentrating solar design along with the plant's thermal storage capabilities will allow solar-powered energy to be produced for up to 6 hours after sundown.
On the customer service side of our business APS has once again been recognized in the J.D.
Power and Associates residential customer survey published last month as being in the top decile among large investor-owned utilities in overall customer satisfaction.
To conclude I remain positive on our future and assure you that the entire management team remains focused on delivering on our commitments.
I'll now turn the call over to Jim.
Thank you Don.
Today I will discuss the following topics: First I will review our second quarter results including the earnings and the primary variances from last year's corresponding quarter; second I will provide a brief update on the status and outlook for the Arizona economy; third I will review our current credit ratings and financing activities; and finally I will review our 2013 earnings guidance and financial outlook.
Slide 6 summarizes our ongoing and GAAP earnings for the quarter and year-to-date.
On a GAAP basis for this year's second quarter we reported consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders of $131 million or $1.18 per share compared with net income of $122 million or $1.11 per share for the prior year's second quarter.
Our ongoing earnings increased $0.06 per share.
For the 2013 second quarter we had consolidated ongoing earnings of $131 million or $1.18 per share versus ongoing net income of $123 million or $1.12 per share for the comparable quarter a year ago.
Slide 21 in the Appendix reconciles our second quarter GAAP earnings per share to our ongoing earnings per share which excludes results related to our discontinued operations.
My remaining comments will focus on ongoing results.
Slide 7 displays the variances that drove the change in quarterly ongoing earnings per share.
An increase in our gross margin added $0.12 per share compared with the prior year's second quarter period.
I will cover the drivers of our gross margin variance on the next slide.
Higher operations and maintenance expenses reduced earnings by $0.04 per share consisting largely of higher employee benefits cost related to the effects of the amortization in this year's second quarter of certain pension and other post-retirement benefit cost compared with the regulatory deferral of such cost as part of the 2012 settlement.
The O&amp;M variance excludes costs related to the Renewable Energy Standard or RES energy efficiency and similar regulatory programs all of which were essentially offset by comparable revenue amounts under adjustment mechanisms.
The net effect of other miscellaneous items primarily higher depreciation decreased earnings by $0.02 per share.
Turning to Slide 8 in the components of the net increase of $0.12 in our gross margin the main components of this increase were as follows: APS's regulatory settlement which became effective July 1 2012 improved gross margin by $0.18 per share almost all of which were comprised of a nonfuel base rate increase.
When the 2012 settlement became effective the company also began recording revenues from the new Lost Fixed Cost Recovery mechanism or LFCR and stopped recording line extension fees as revenue.
Higher transmission revenue increased earnings by $0.06 per share.
Increased fuel and purchased power cost net of lower off-system sales and lower mark-to-market valuations reduced earnings by $0.07 per share.
This variance is a result of the Power Supply Adjustor modification effective mid-2012 with the implementation of the regulatory settlement that changed the PSA to a 100% pass-through as compared to the 90-10 sharing mechanism that was previously in effect.
The effects of weather the combination of year-over-year variations in heating and cooling degree days and relative humidity reduced earnings by $0.05 per share.
Although weather in the second quarter of both this year and last year were more favorable than normal this year's quarter was milder.
As a reminder we use a 10-year rolling average to define normal weather versus the industry norm of 30 years and 80 degrees Fahrenheit as a cooling degree day threshold for residential sales.
Our model show these parameters provide a better indication of normal weather.
Turning to Slides 9 and 10 and looking at our fundamental growth outlook in the Arizona economy.
Economic growth in Arizona continued its overall improvement in the second quarter of 2013 although the growth remains modest as has been the case for last year or so.
As shown on Slide 9 the rate of overall job growth has been positive for the last 2 years and appears to be stabilizing around the 2% level.
Nearly all of the major industrial sectors are experiencing some work.
The sustained growth in jobs has been helpful in supporting a gradual increase in incomes and consumer spending and has pushed Arizona's unemployment rate down generally in parallel with national trends.
While these trends are positive we believe we still have to at a minimum up to a year to go before we see local markets returning to more normal conditions.
Also on Slide 9 you can see our estimate of the amount of vacant homes and apartments that presently exist in our Metro Phoenix service territory.
In the second quarter of 2013 the number of vacancies has continued to fall such that we are currently below the level of 2007 where existing home resale pricing is more supportive of new home construction.
On Slide 10 you can see the recent trends in Metro Phoenix home prices as reflected in the Case-Shiller repeat sales index.
Throughout 2012 we saw steady increases in existing home prices and these positive trends have continued in 2013.
The resurgence in home prices has sparked more demand for new housing.
However we are hearing that homebuilders continue to face hurdles in acquiring and developing land at reasonable prices attracting skilled labor and controlling building materials costs particularly at the entry-level of the market.
The ability of homebuilders to successfully navigate through these challenges will have a sizable influence on the pace of the Phoenix and Arizona construction recovery over the next several quarters.
Slide 10 also shows that similar conditions are present in the commercial real estate market.
As you can see on the slide vacancy rates for office and retail space have begun to fall from their peak levels but remain quite high while those for industrial space have fallen more dramatically.
Again we view this as a positive trend but believe the extent of vacant space in the office and retail markets means the recovery for new office and retail construction will likely lag that for new homes.
On balance we see signs of sustained improvement in all economic indicators which paint a picture of continuing steady recovery.
But it will still be about 3 quarters or so before the Arizona economy has returned to normal levels of economic activity and growth.
Reflecting the steady improvement in economic conditions APS's customer base grew 1.4% year-to-date as compared with a year ago.
Over the long term we believe the fundamentals that have been important to Arizona's growth are still here and that our customer growth rate will return to more typical levels.
Looking at the next several years we continue to expect annual customer growth to average about 2% for 2013 through 2015 with higher growth rates at the end of the period than in the near term for the reasons I've just discussed.
Additionally we also continue to expect our annual weather-normalized retail sales in kilowatt hours to increase by less than 1% on average for 2013 through 2015 primarily due to customer conservation and energy efficiency and distributed energy generation initiatives offsetting the continued recovery in the economy and customer growth.
Slide 11 displays our current investment grade credit ratings.
In May Fitch upgraded APS's and Pinnacle West's corporate credit ratings from BBB to BBB+ and upgraded APS's senior unsecured rating from BBB+ to A-.
We are pleased that the rating agencies continue to recognize our improving financial performance.
Our recent financing activities included 2 tax-exempt transactions.
On May 1 APS purchased all $32 million of Maricopa County 2009 Series C pollution control bonds and these bonds were remarketed on May 28.
On July 12 APS purchased all $33 million of Coconino County 1994 Series A pollution control bonds and we will expect to remarket these bonds within the next 12 months.
Liquidity is still very strong and we currently have no short-term debt.
Looking ahead we still expect to issue debt to fund the acquisition of SoCal Edison's interest in the Four Corners plant later this year if the transaction is consummated.
Finally I will discuss our earnings guidance and financial outlook.
As shown on Slide 12 we expect Pinnacle West's consolidated ongoing earnings for 2013 will now be in the range of $3.55 to $3.70 per share.
This increase in guidance is driven primarily by favorable weather in the first 6 months of the year translating into about $0.14 per share of positive impact to earnings.
We assume normal weather patterns for the remainder of the year.
An updated list of key factors and assumptions underlying our revised 2013 outlook is included in the appendix to our slides.
Slide 13 illustrates our longer term financial outlook.
We continue to expect to grow our dividend by approximately 4% annually.
Of course future dividends are subject to declaration at the Board of Directors' discretion.
In addition the company's goal continues to be an annual consolidated earned return on average common equity of at least 9.5% through 2015.
The earnings and dividend growth continue to be supported by an approximately 6% annual growth in rate base through 2015.
Additionally approximately 80% of our capital expenditures are funded through depreciation cash flow or tracker mechanisms.
In closing we are confident in our expectations to achieve our financial objectives through 2015 that is during our base rate stay-out period.
Our confidence is supported by the gross margin mechanisms contained in the retail rate settlement coupled with our demonstrated operational execution and cost management focus.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Jim can I go to the Appendix and a -- Page 15 in the Appendix and just have you talk us through some of the changes to your factors for '13? Obviously electric gross margin is up given the weather and the other factors that you laid out in your formal presentation.
Right.
Research Division</strong> But can you focus on for me you've got a significant increase in your OpEx budget for the year and a pretty meaningful decrease in your interest expense expectation.
Is the OpEx up because you're making investments that you think will allow you to control O&amp;M in the future? That's something we've talked about so just want to make sure I understand that.
And then where's the interest expense delta coming from? Sure.
Sure.
So I think if you look at OpEx you have a couple of factors going on.
So if I look at the quarter year-over-year O&amp;M was essentially flat other than the amortization of the pension and OPEB which theoretically we got paid for in the rate settlement.
And our approach to these ranges really is we put sort of parameters around each of these and then we run a probability distribution.
And I think -- so I look at O&amp;M where we are in cost.
There's probably more downside than upside with flat O&amp;M for the year.
And then we are making some strategic investments especially in the IT area to accelerate the benefit in the later years based on where we are today in our financial performance.
If I look at interest expense a couple of things there as well.
You got the delay of Four Corners but you also have the fact that we've refinanced at lower rates and we have less debt outstanding.
And as I said we're no short-term debt as we sit here today so we're in a great liquidity position.
So that would be the things that would drive those changes in ranges.
I'd also point out Greg on the gross margin besides weather.
If you remember we had first quarter usage that was positive and that also impacts our gross margin.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I know look I know we can't necessarily capitalize the weather into what we expect your earnings power to be but to the extent you continue to have good weather quarters that obviously does impact earnings power in the long run right because it increases retained earnings.
And so down the line the necessity for equity might either be decreased or obviated altogether.
Is that a fair observation or not? No that is in fact -- well we can't count on weather year-to-year.
Any positive weather is less equity we have to raise down the road.
So that's obviously a positive long-term story as well.
Research Division</strong> Last question.
Don you earned a 9.9% ROE on consolidated earns last year.
It looks like you're in good shape this year in part because of the weather.
But if we adjust for weather and then we look at the underlying trends and where you think you could bring in your cost profile is there any reason for us to expect that there'd be a significant degradation in earned ROE from the 9.9% you earned in '12 as we look through the forecast period? No Greg.
I'm very confident as Jim alluded to in talking about the changes in O&amp;M.
We're making some investments that we're confident are going to pay dividends in cost savings in the years ahead and other aspects of our cost-containment program are going to provide benefits down the road.
So I'm very comfortable where we're at in our future.
Our next question comes from Kevin Cole with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Becky congrats on the retirement.
Thanks Kevin.
Research Division</strong> You've been a great mentor over the years and I appreciate all your help.
Thank you very much.
And so I guess for the question on deregulation Don can you provide a little perspective on what happened last time Arizona did this exercise? And can you give I guess some comments on just your general confidence that this will be resolved in September October timeframe? Sure Kevin.
Let me first start with your last part of the question.
I am very confident that the Corporation Commission is going to act in the best interest of all our customers and to do that action on a timely basis.
Where I sit now I think we could count the number of customers that are proponents of dereg so-called deregulation on one hand and I'm looking at a list of 153 organizations elected officials chambers numerous other business leaders leaders of the Arizona Senate the Arizona House of Representatives numerous mayors city managers and other local elected officials across the state that have come out strongly against it.
I don't think the proponents of deregulation necessarily counted on the negative reaction it's received.
As you know reliability of an electric system is very important and it's also a fundamental of all advanced economies.
But in Arizona the hottest state in America reliable electric service is literally a life or death necessity.
Regarding what happened last time around and that was the latter half of the '90s and the first couple of years of 2000.
First I'll direct your attention to when the utilities in the state made the filings the middle of this month.
APS's filing had a cover letter from me on it; as did Paul Bonavia did the same at UNS; and Mark Bonsall who's the Chief Executive Officer of Salt River Project he also addressed Salt River's project filing with a cover letter and I don't know how accessible Mark's letter is.
If you can't find it on their website or the commission's website we'd be happy to provide it.
Mark is the 1 of the 3 of us that was actually around here for that period of time.
But let me respond to your question is the commission at that time before the debacle in California was pursuing deregulation had put the rules in place.
The utilities incurred many millions of dollars of cost in systems and other projects to get ready for a deregulated environment.
And then you had the California energy crisis which brought that movement towards deregulation to a screeching halt.
And similarly at that time essentially the Arizona courts concluded that most of the rules and other processes that had been put in place were unconstitutional and/or illegal for a variety of different reasons.
So that obstacle to deregulation still exists.
But it was a very expensive endeavor for the utilities for our customers and there was no visible benefits that came of that exercise.
And I think once the commission has a chance to review all the comments and reply comments so that will be later in August they'll have a good sense that there's not too many opportunities here for Arizona customers and significant risk and cost that are almost a virtual certainty.
So I hope that was a long-winded answer to your question.
Research Division</strong> Yes it was very helpful.
I appreciate it.
Our next question comes from Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Echo Kevin's comments so congratulations Becky and thank you for all your help through the years.
You bet.
Thanks.
Research Division</strong> And given what your comments around new construction are we to the point where you're looking at or actually putting in new substations and thinking about new developments? Or is that still a ways out? We're always continuing to improve the system for reliability.
In terms of growth we do have developers talking to us now about their next phase of development.
Less real construction going on but it's probably at 12 to 18 months out when we see sort of construction begin to pick up to support the residential housing build.
Research Division</strong> So right now you're still sopping up excess inventory but that's probably a ways out? Pretty much.
It's infill at this point.
Paul I'll add to that.
Besides the activity our customer service folks are hearing from homebuilders and developers on the commercial side of our business there seems to be some early signs of an uptick.
Just yesterday they broke ground in the Tempe area our service territory right at the shores of Tempe Town Lake on a massive project for a regional headquarters for State Farm Insurance that's going to provide jobs for 10 000 to 12 000 people there.
And a good part of that is State Farm consolidating some of their operations in the west.
So it will have ancillary growth opportunities just coming off that single large project.
Our next question comes from Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So kind of falling back on Kevin's question a little bit.
Again once again thank you very much Becky.
But I wanted to follow up on retail here and go back to perhaps a little bit of the change of late has been the introduction of net metering and solar DG is kind of taking off to a certain extent.
How is that kind of changing the color of deregulation or the conversation if you will? I'd be curious are we talking about something a little bit different? What are the different outcomes potentially as it relates to so-called restructuring if you will? And what I'm really getting at is some of the questions posed by the ACC appear to be getting at exactly that nuance between solar DG and restructuring if you will? I've got Jeff Guldner here and I'll let him jump in on that.
Julien part of the challenge I think the net metering discussion makes the deregulation conversation more difficult or more complex and it's primarily because the net metering is mostly impacting the fixed cost recovery and so much of that is on the wire side that would not be subject to the restructuring debate.
And so it simply adds another layer of complexity as we have the discussion that you'd have to sort through if you were to move forward with any kind of a deregulated market.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then perhaps a little bit more detailed question if you will.
With regards to Four Corners again kind of thinking through the various options here.
As you're thinking through kind of that 12/31 year end EPA deadline amongst I suppose several other considerations what are some of the key milestones that need to be hit or could trigger differences in the transaction as you think about it? Well obviously clarity on what happens in Arizona is going to be a key one for us as well.
That's probably the primary driver at this point in where we are with Four Corners.
Research Division</strong> Or maybe stated differently do you need to get resolution by a certain point in time? Well I don't know if there's necessarily a date and time but for frankly for every day goes by there's a risk to the Four Corners transaction.
But as I go back to my earlier comments to Kevin's questions I'm fairly confident that this commission's going to act in the best interest of our customers in a timely basis and we're going to exercise our best efforts to keep the Four Corners transaction viable.
Our next question comes from Brian Russo with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked and answered.
I was just wondering if maybe you could just give us a quick update on any longer term transmission project opportunities? Well we have in our -- in APS the biggest transaction going on now is our Hassayampa into North Gila Line 2.
It's about a $250 million roughly transmission project which we expect to be in service by April of 2015.
And outside of that we just continue to look at opportunities away from APS and the Delaney-Colorado River project we've submitted to the Cal-ISO and we're still waiting for resolution on that.
Research Division</strong> Any timing on resolution or any estimated investment for it? No.
We thought we'd have resolution on September but resolution now is a little more murkier in terms of when we'll get some sort of a yes or no on that.
Our next question comes from Ali Agha with SunTrust Robinson.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First on Four Corners I just wanted to clarify a couple of things.
I know that as every month passes the value of that transaction comes down.
But I wanted to be clear from Pinnacle West's perspective is there a particular time period by which you need to complete this? Apart from the EPA deadline is there any other regulatory deadline we need to be aware of? And just from an economic perspective because I know in the past I had a call getting from you guys that if it didn't get done by the end of the year it didn't make sense to do it.
But I just want to be clear what the current thinking on this one is.
Well I think other than the clarity that we've talking about before not sure there's anything else that needs to happen other than we just need clarity on what the market structure is going to be.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if that discussion spills over into next year I mean there's nothing to stop you from waiting for this process on the clarity front to play out before closing it? And this could happen next year say first or second quarter.
That's not an issue for you? Well Ali we've got our -- the EPA has extended the BART settlement through the end of the year.
So beyond the end of the year it introduces a whole new risk profile to the situation.
Again we go back to the point I think this is going to get resolved long before year end.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a call the way that the rate case settlement was made I think the carve out for Four Corners also expires at the end of the year? Is that right? That's correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question Jim I apologize if I missed this but what was the load growth weather-normalized in the second quarter? I don't know if you gave that and I may have missed it.
It was less than 1% retail sales increase.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So there was a slowdown from the Q1 trend? No not really.
I think the difference between the 2 quarters relates to again customer mix and usage patterns.
We saw an increase in residential sales but a reduction in commercial sales.
And so there was a de minimis impact on gross margin growth in the second quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I see.
Last question as you're thinking I know it's going to be a couple of years out on the timing of the next rate case once the stay-out period is over.
Is that more a Q3 Q4 '14 event in your mind? Or can you just give us big picture of when it is that you would be in a position to make a determination on the timing there? We can't file until May 31 2015.
I would say that the timing would be sometime in early '15 whether we want to file May 31 or we want to wait.
Our next question comes from Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of easy questions from me.
The first is so guidance went up $0.10 on the quarter but weather positively impacted EPS by $0.14 versus normal.
What's the delta there? Is that simply Four Corners or is it the O&amp;M trends that you've seen so far this year? It's just based on looking at where we are and what we have ahead of us in the second half of the year.
As you know the third quarter is our big quarter in terms of earnings.
Just putting a probability distribution around that when you do that it comes up to $0.10.
So I wouldn't necessarily say that because weather is $0.14 and the range is $0.10 that there's a negative looming in the second half.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just on O&amp;M how should we think about the right O&amp;M growth rate post 2013? So off of this base in light of some of the cost savings initiatives that you guys are employing.
I would think you would look at the O&amp;M growth to be equal to or less than the rate of growth of kWh sales.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then last question Jim in light of increasing interest rates what are your thoughts about using a forward equity mechanism to lock in current prices? Neil my response to that would be we're very well versed on the forward but as I sit here today and I have no short-term debt and a very healthy equity mix I'm not really thinking about equity at the moment.
Our next question comes from Sarah Akers with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just one question on the general support for coal in Arizona.
We've seen measures in some of your neighboring states to move away from coal.
Are you seeing anything similar in Arizona or how would you characterize the support in the state? I would say there is -- we're not like the other states moving away from coal.
In fact we have one commissioner who stressed that she'd like to see coal as part of the generation mix.
So I think at this point you have Navajo which is really a big part of the water system in Arizona.
And a high desire obviously to the impacts of water rates for that to stay open as well.
So I would say the state is -- likes our mix of nuclear and coal and gas and that generation diversity is a positive.
Sarah Don here.
I'll add too if you'll go to azcentral.com the website for the Arizona Republic.
This morning U.S.
Congressman Paul Gosar on the Arizona delegation wrote an op-ed in support of coal generation.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Charles Fishman with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I just had one quick one left.
Just to make sure I understand this.
The ACC review of regulation versus deregulation that has had no impact on AZ Sun or your demand management program correct? That's correct.
Correct.
Our last question comes from Andy Levi with Avon Capital.
I guess first I'd like to say and I kind of expressed this to Becky in New York but Becky I've known you for a very very long time and not everybody can achieve being the best at what they do but you clearly have.
And also proud to call you a friend as Don has.
So congratulations on achieving what you've achieved.
Question-wise Jim just on Four Corners.
How quickly -- so let's just say tomorrow the commission put this to rest or you were comfortable kind of where things were going how quickly can you close on Four Corners? Fairly quickly actually.
Fairly quickly being a week 2 weeks? It's going to take time to ink documents.
Probably within 30 days certainly.
I mean I think everything is ready to go.
Okay.
So it's kind of a 30-day process.
30 or less.
I mean you always in these transactions just need to check everything.
So fairly quickly.
Great.
And then just the interest savings how much was from Four Corners? I don't have that in my notes so I'm just -- need that for my model.
$3 million to $4 million.
Was allocated for this year? Yes.
There are no further questions in queue at this time.
I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Mountain for closing comments.
All right.
That concludes our call.
Thank you for joining today.
Let us know if you have any questions.
Thanks Latonya.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2013 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Paul Mountain Director of Investor Relations for Pinnacle West Capital.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Thank you Christine.
I'd like to thank everyone for participating in this Conference Call and Webcast to Review Our Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Recent Developments and Operating Performance.
Our speakers today will be our Chairman and CEO Don Brandt; and our CFO Jim Hatfield.
First I need to cover a few details with you.
The slides that we will be using are available on our Investor Relations website along with our earnings release and related information.
Note that the slides contain reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Today's comments and our slides contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and the company assumes no obligation to update these statements.
Because actual results may differ materially from expectations we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements.
Our third quarter Form 10-Q was filed this morning.
Please refer to that document for forward-looking statements cautionary language as well as the Risk Factors and MD&amp;A sections which identify risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in our disclosures.
A replay of this call will be available shortly on our website for the next 30 days and will also be available by telephone through November 7.
I will now turn the call over to Don.
Thank you Paul.
And thank you all for joining us today.
My comments today will provide an update on our operations including the Four Corners transaction as well as discuss the regulatory proposals that are in front of the Arizona Corporation Commission.
Then Jim will discuss the results of the quarter and our earnings guidance.
First let me highlight that last week our Board of Directors increased the common dividend by 4% effective with this year's December payment.
The increase builds on the 4% increase last fall and is in line with the value return goals we outlined 1 year ago at our Analyst Day.
Turning now to Four Corners.
With the Arizona Corporation Commission voting to close the retail electric competition docket on September 11 APS is now moving forward to address the remaining conditions to closing our acquisition of Southern California Edison's interest in Four Corners Units 4 and 5.
The transfer of the mine from BHP to the Navajo Nation is progressing with the Navajo president and the Navajo speaker of the Tribal Council signing legislation last week necessary to complete the acquisition of the mine.
The other co-owners of the plant must also finalize their internal approvals of the coal contract.
Assuming all closing conditions are met we anticipate the Four Corners transaction will close in December.
Around the time of closing APS plans to issue debt to provide permanent funding for the acquisition.
Once the transaction is closed we have 2 actions that need to occur by December 31 2013: First a provision in APS's 2012 settlement agreement allows APS to file for the recovery of the Four Corners transaction-related revenue requirement with the Arizona Corporation Commission and to implement new rates prior to the company's next rate case.
The Commission will review the revenue requirement request and make a decision which is expected in 2014.
Second APS and the other Four Corners participants will notify the EPA of their chosen "best available retrofit technology" as you know as BART compliant strategy which would include shutting down Units 1 2 and 3 by January 1 2014 and installing selective catalytic reduction technology on Units 4 and 5 by July 31 2018 again assuming the Four Corners transaction is completed.
Turning to the rest of our operations.
The Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station had another solid operational quarter with a capacity factor of 100%.
Unit 3 began a refueling outage on October 5 with a continuous run of 160 days by all 3 units.
This was the second longest run for the 3 units simultaneously in plant history spanning from the completion of a planned Unit 1 outage in April to Unit 3's current planned refueling and maintenance outage.
Early in the Unit 3 outage during routine visual examinations we discovered a very small water leak where an instrumentation tube connects to the bottom of the reactor vessel.
The tiny leak was located inside the containment structure and was isolated from the environment.
Multiple independent monitoring devices inside containment confirmed that this leak is exceptionally small and no other leaks have been detected.
The Palo Verde team is currently making all necessary repairs before the unit returns to service which we expect later in November.
Our share of the costs which are mainly capital are not expected to be material.
Units 1 and 2 remain at full power.
Our solar portfolio achieved an important milestone with the 250-megawatt Solana plant reaching commercial operation earlier this month.
As you know APS will purchase 100% of Solana's generation which will make a significant contribution towards our Renewable Energy Standard target.
Solana represents an important technological step forward with the ability of Solana to store the sun's heat and thereby generate electricity long after the sun has set.
Work continues on Yuma Foothills Phase 2 and Hyder 2 as part of our AZ Sun utility-scale solar platform with these plants expected to come online later this year.
In addition work has begun on the 32-megawatt Gila Bend plant which is expected to come online in mid-2014 which will bring the total to 150 megawatts in commercial operations through AZ Sun.
As we discussed on our second quarter call APS also filed its annual Renewable Energy Standard Implementation Plan covering the 2014 to 2018 timeframe on July 12.
The plan does not propose any new programs but it does seek approval to conduct RFPs sign contracts and begin construction on the final 50 megawatts of the 200-megawatt AZ Sun program.
On September 30 2013 the ACC staff issued a report recommending approval of APS's plan and the proposed budget.
We filed APS's proposed solution with the Commission on a policy revision for net metering in July of this year with the goal of ensuring that APS residential customers who installed rooftop solar pay a fair price for their use of the electricity grid and also receive incentives and appropriate compensation for their solar production.
We believe the cost shifting should be resolved now.
The recommendation by the ACC staff last month proposes a range of solution from addressing the cost shift now to waiting until APS's next rate case.
Every serious stakeholder in the net metering debate including ACC staff and RUCO has acknowledged the cost shift problem.
Media coverage on the net metering issue has evolved from a debate about whether there is an issue to the coverage we're seeing lately in the Arizona media which is more about finding a fair solution with RUCO's acknowledgment of the cost shift as the final confirmation.
We expect the Arizona Corporation Commission to discuss both net metering and the Renewable Energy Standard Implementation Plan at its open meeting in a couple of weeks.
To conclude our value proposition remains clear.
Our management team remains focused on executing our strategy and delivering long-term rate base earnings and dividends growth.
I'll now turn the call over to Jim.
Thank you Don.
The topics I will discuss today are outlined on Slide 4.
I'll begin with a review of our third quarter results including earnings and the primary variances from last year's relative quarter followed by an update on the status and outlook for the Arizona economy and we'll conclude with a review of our 2013 and 2014 earnings guidance and financial outlook.
Slide 5 summarizes our ongoing and GAAP earnings for the quarter and year-to-date.
On an ongoing and GAAP basis for this year's third quarter we reported consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders of $226 million or $2.04 per share compared with net income of $245 million or $2.21 per share for the prior year's third quarter.
As usual my remaining comments will focus on ongoing results.
Slide 6 outlines the variances that drove the change in quarterly ongoing earnings per share.
A decrease in our gross margin reduced earnings by $0.06 per share compared with the prior year's third quarter.
I will cover the drivers of our gross margin variance on the next slide.
Higher operations and maintenance expenses reduced earnings by $0.04 per share including communication costs associated with net metering and deregulation partially offset by lower generation cost resulting from less plant maintenance being completed in the third quarter of this year than in the same quarter 1 year ago.
Both the gross margin and O&amp;M variances exclude expenses related to the Renewable Energy Standard or RES energy efficiency and similar regulatory programs all of which were essentially offset by comparable revenue amounts under adjustment mechanisms.
Higher infrastructure-related costs reduced earnings by $0.07 per share reflecting increases in depreciation and amortization and property taxes which is driven by both additional property and higher rates.
Turning to Slide 7 and the components of the net decrease of $0.06 in our gross margin the main components of this were as follows starting with the positive drivers: The effects of weather improved earnings by $0.02 per share.
Although weather in the third quarters of both this year and last year were less favorable than normal this year's quarter was relatively warmer.
During the period residential cooling degree days were 4% higher than last year's third quarter but 3% below normal.
The middle of September was particularly mild compared to normal.
The net effect of other miscellaneous items improved gross margin by $0.02 per share.
Offsetting these items lower usage by APS's customers compared with the third quarter 1 year ago decreased our quarterly results by $0.09 per share.
Weather-normalized retail kilowatt hour sales were down 1.3% compared to last year for the quarter.
While our customer programs and conservation are the largest source of the reduction in sales this variance also reflects a convergence back to a more normal usage trend after stronger-than-expected usage for the year-ago quarter and is very much in line with our expectations.
On a year-to-date basis weather-normalized retail kilowatt hour sales are relatively flat in line with our guidance.
Lower transmission revenue decreased earnings by $0.01 per share including an unfavorable variance of $0.03 related to the transmission accrual that we recorded in the third quarter of 2012 following the modification to the Transmission Cost Adjustor under our 2012 settlement.
Turning to Slides 8 and 9 and looking at our fundamental growth outlook and the Arizona economy.
Economic growth in Arizona continued its overall improvement in the third quarter 2013 although the growth remains modest as has been the case through the last year or so.
As shown on Slide 8 the prices of existing single-family homes in Metro Phoenix reflect the benefit of these improving economic conditions.
The steady job growth over the last 2 years has helped with the absorption of vacant homes and apartments in the Phoenix area and housing prices have responded.
Prices have now recovered to mid-2004 levels a healthy improvement from levels seen in recent years.
Additionally the rate of overall job growth has been positive the last 2 years and appears to be stable at around -- at the 2% level.
Nearly all of the major industrial sectors are experiencing some growth.
The sustained growth in jobs has been helpful in supporting a gradual increase in incomes business and consumer confidence and thus consumer spending.
Arizona's unemployment rate reflects those improving economic conditions and has seen steady year-on-year declines.
The resurgence of existing home prices has sparked more demand for new housing.
Permits for new single-family homes are up substantially this year and 2013 will likely end up as the best year for new construction since 2007.
However homebuilders continue to face hurdles in acquiring and developing land at reasonable prices attracting skilled labor and controlling building material cost particularly at the entry level of the market.
The ability of homebuilders to successfully navigate through these challenges will have an influence on the pace of the Phoenix and Arizona construction recovery over the next several quarters.
The top right chart indicates that the commercial real estate market has been gradually improving as well but may have a longer recovery period than housing.
Vacancy rates for office and retail space have begun to fall from their peak levels but remain quite high while those for the industrial space have fallen more dramatically.
On balance we see signs of sustained improvement in all economic indicators which paint a picture of a continued steady recovery.
Reflecting the steady improvement in economic conditions APS's customer base grew 1.3% year-to-date compared with the year ago.
On Slide 9 looking over the long term we believe that fundamentals that have been important to Arizona's growth are still here and that our customer growth rate will return to more typical levels.
Looking at the next several years we continued to expect annual customer growth to average about 2% for 2013 through 2015 with higher growth rates at the end of the period than in the near term for the reasons I have just discussed.
Additionally we also continue to expect our annual weather-normalized retail sales and kilowatt hours to increase by less than 1% on average from 2013 through 2015 primarily due to our customer programs and conservations offsetting their continued recovery in the economy and customer growth.
Finally I'll discuss our earnings guidance and financial outlook.
As shown on Slide 10 we continue to expect that Pinnacle West consolidated ongoing earnings for 2013 will be in the range of $3.55 to $3.70 per share.
However we know much of the favorable weather we saw through the second quarter has been reversed in September and October but it is included in our guidance.
In fact in terms of the number of cooling degree days this October has recorded the fewest cooling degree days in the last 15 years.
We are also introducing 2014 ongoing guidance of $3.60 to $3.75 per share.
Key assumptions in 2014 include customer growth of 2% with retail kilowatt hour sales increasing about 0.5%.
The impact of the Four Corners acquisition affected midyear and no equity issuance planned.
A complete list of factors and assumptions underlying our 2013 and 2014 guidance is included in the appendix to our slides.
As Don discussed the Board of Directors increased their indicated annual dividend by $0.09 per share or about 4% to $2.27 per share effective with the December payment.
The company goal continues to be an annualized consolidated and return on average common equity of at least 9.5% through 2015.
This underpins our ability to expect to grow our dividend by approximately 4% per year.
In addition we remain on track for 2013 consistent with our earnings guidance range.
Lastly I just want to make a brief point on our liquidity.
As Don remarked around the time of closing of the Four Corners transaction APS plans to issue debt to provide permanent funding for the acquisition.
At the end of the third quarter both the parent company and APS had no short-term debt outstanding and we have ample liquidity.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we'll now take questions.
Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Shahriar Pourreza from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> The midpoint of your guidance range $3.60 to $3.75 seems to imply a little bit closer to an earned ROE of 9.5%.
I think historically you've guided and even in the prior call you mentioned that you should see probably lag close to about 10 basis points so maybe an earned ROE close to like 9.8% 9.9%.
I mean there's no real change in your customer growth assumptions or weather-normalized growth assumptions from a volume basis.
So I guess I'm kind of curious what the delta is? And is it energy efficiency or what are you seeing down there? Well Shahriar I would say our guidance sort of booking of the 9.5% to 10% earned ROE.
And I think no real change in our outlook as we look to '14 and beyond the pieces of the rate base growth earnings growth and dividend growth are still intact.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
got it.
And then let me just ask you one question on Four Corners.
The transaction is going to close pretty -- timing-wise pretty close to when the EPA can announce potential carbon legislation on existing assets.
Can you give us an update on where the ACC or APS or the governor is with the EPA on potential impacts? Because obviously there's going to be a litigation as a result of it but ultimately could lead to pretty high capital requirements for these assets.
Can we get a status on that? Yes and just in terms of Four Corners and the EPA I think the EPA came out earlier this year which was for new sources and they are coming out with existing sources won't be for an additional amount of time.
So our plans right now are to just close the transaction and so SCR is in '17 and '18 and we think that'll fit within the EPA guidelines.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just to be clear on the third quarter and year-to-date numbers because I think the decline in sales was a little bit disconcerting to some people.
The year-to-date numbers you are seeing about -- you've seen about 1.3% customer growth and more or less flat sales growth.
So despite the fact that the third quarter was a bad comp versus last year you are actually on plan relative to your expectations? Absolutely Greg.
Like I said in my remarks we were off in the third quarter.
It's consistent with last year where we're off to the third quarter as well and it certainly met our expectations from sales growth.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then you've given guidance for 2% customer growth 0.5% sales growth in '14.
But if I triangulate around what you've said about an expectation of accelerating customer growth and sales growth and you expect any averages that you said you expect through '15 just mathematically speaking you think that customer and sales growth should accelerate into '15 versus '14.
Is that correct? Absolutely Greg.
Research Division</strong> And you've said before you see an ability to keep your O&amp;M relatively flat over that period? Is that still a fair assumption? Yes that's still our assumption.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The final question on this subject and then one other.
Don I know Jim just said that the $3.60 to $3.75 guidance for 2014 more or less bookends a earned ROE of 9.5% to 10%.
And I know weather variations can do a lot to your earnings throughout the course of the year and there is other factors that are hard to manage.
But is it still your aspiration and assumption that you could default if your plan is executed earned towards your authorized return on equity? That is correct Greg that it would be our direction to earn towards our allowed rate of return.
Let me add before we get too far away from your last question about customer growth and I know you and others would be interested in this.
I just had a discussion day before yesterday with some representatives of the homebuilders industry.
And to use their words the builders are not able to meet the current demand for housing in the area and the key issues are 3: they identified labor shortage which they have actually built some trade schools to get construction labor back up to speed; the permitting process and that's going through the various city and county government entities; and a lack of improved lots right now which they're going at gangbusters.
So my word is not theirs.
I think theirs is initial hurdle to get over to get those pieces in place and we'll see things start to accelerate relative to solar -- excuse me sales growth which is in line with essentially what Jim was telling you a few minutes ago.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my final question with regard to solar stuff.
I guess the next open meeting is in mid-November.
Do you think that it's possible you'll get a decision both on the net metering issue and the 50 megawatts of Arizona Sun that you've recommended -- that the staff has recommended be approved? And if they do approve that is that in your current CapEx forecast or would that be accretive to CapEx and rate base? We do not have the last 50 megawatts of Arizona Sun in our forecast at the moment.
It would likely be in a '15 event.
Research Division</strong> And that would get recovered through a rate rider as the rest of the Arizona Sun program has? Yes exactly.
Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith from UBS.
Research Division</strong> So just wanted to touch on the '14 guidance again just real quickly here.
You're talking about some pretty robust growth obviously.
And I'd be curious -- looking at the gross margin component of this right? It seems more flattish year-on-year.
I mean obviously the top end is a little higher.
Can you talk about maybe the composition of growth and kind of reconcile those 2 comments a little bit? Sure.
I think you have a couple of components here: one obviously is 0.5% sales growth; and the others would be as we've talked about the mechanisms we have in place that continue to add the gross margin on an annual basis.
You have the TSA.
You have the RES.
You have the LSCR.
And of course we've assumed that 1/2 year at Four Corners.
So you would get 1/2 of that -- roughly 1/2 in '14 and 1/2 in '15 assuming it goes in on July 1.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
How much of the growth in gross margin here is attributable to growth in sales if you will versus say rate increases? And perhaps just to be clear how much year-on-year in aggregate are we talking about a reversal of sort of 1x weather-related benefit this year just to kind of make it more apples-to-apples? Well I think so far and we don't know what October is yet because it's last day of the month.
We know it was terribly mild.
Like I said we haven't had an October like this since 1998.
So I think at the end of September we still had about $0.06 or $0.07 of weather.
Positive weather so you'd have to weather-normalize from that.
Our rule of thumb on 1% sales growth is roughly $10 million of net income which equates to about $0.09.
So you would have $0.04 or so just based on sales growth.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And I just wanted to clarify this.
I mean been a lot of talk out there about distributed gen and solar and all that.
But just to be very clear and perhaps quantify it I mean what kind of variability could DG put into your numbers? I mean it seems relatively small but just put a finer number on that.
Yes.
Well right now we're seeing the DGPs probably take away about 0.5% of sales growth or so.
And the rest is as we talked about EE and conservation.
And we don't see a lot of variability in that number obviously.
We expect DG will grow but so will a number of customers and so you'll see fairly consistent sort of 0.5%.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And kind of taking the same analogy of growth in '14 and looking further beyond we've seen some of your peers out there talk about long-term EPS growth the trajectory coming down a little bit.
Obviously you guys have some EPA-related spend and some demand growth that I suppose longer-term outlook.
What are you guys thinking I mean if you can put kind of any kind of ballpark sense there? I mean are we talking about at a minimum maintaining your current growth trajectory or is there actually an acceleration here that you're talking about '15 onwards? Are you talking about what kind of growth EPS growth? Research Division</strong> Yes I think.
Yes bottom line EPS growth.
Yes I think Julien you think you have really in '14 somewhat of a lull in growth but our growth rate hasn't changed.
And we talked about our forecast of '15 but beyond that we have as we sit here today planning peakers in the valley that was our '17 '18 event you have SCRs which are '17 '18 events as well.
So we don't really see a slowdown in our growth rate as we sit here today.
Research Division</strong> Is it arguably an increase or...
We haven't talked about increase or decrease.
We think it's going to be consistent steady growth which supports our dividend growth outlook.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And perhaps just lastly here I mean obviously a lot of focus again on DG.
Is that an opportunity in the long term here for you guys to get involved somehow beyond AZ Sun? We have not -- it's something we've looked at but right now we have no plans to get into DG.
Our plans in the solar space would be more utility scale with PPAs to creditworthy customers.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jim wanted to clarify a couple of things.
One is just to be clear from your commentary the third quarter financial results that you just reported were those in line with expectations or below because of the sales growth or can you just give us a sense of that? No I would say it's in line.
I don't think we're -- as I said the sort of sales reduction was not outside our expectation.
We did have a little higher property tax which is something that we probably didn't expect.
We see property tax rates going up about 10%.
Remember we have the deferral mechanisms we are able to deferral a good part of that.
Other than that I'd say it's in line with expectations.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second as you point out in your '14 guidance you're not assuming any new equity issuance.
So at this stage when are the earliest do you believe equity would be required for you guys? Well right now we're assuming no equity in our forecast period which goes through '15.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Oh through '15 as well okay? Right.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And does that also influence your thinking on the next rate case filing? They're somewhat connected but obviously our goal would be to stay out as long as we can.
It's likely to be pushed off but we do have the peakers and the SCRs which at some point will want to make sure we recover.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you talked about the dividend the 4% growth rate that you've assumed will continue going forward.
Does that assume a pretty steady current payout ratio? Does the payout ratio go up? Does it go down? How should we think about that for the dividend? It's pretty much steady with the 4% dividend increase.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we should assume a 4% EPS growth to go over that dividend growth? Well as we said last year we have 4% dividend growth and sort of 6% rate base growth long term.
And so earnings are going to -- that would be your bookends from an earnings perspective.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right got it.
And last question to be clear just confirming I think you mentioned.
So in your '14 guidance you've got Four Corners contributing earnings for 1/2 a year? Correct.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Cole with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just kind of following up on Agha's question.
So there's no equity through 2015.
Should we think about I guess the next test here being 2016 and then you're filing mid-'17 and rates effective '18.
Is that kind of how we should think about it? Kevin I think you're probably far ahead of our thought.
Our objective is to run the business exceptionally well control our costs deliver outstanding value and service to our customers.
And as Jim said we have no plans for equity in '14 and it's not our objective or I doubt many other electric utilities in the country to file rate cases as a first course of action.
So we'll deal with that as our plans evolve.
Research Division</strong> And is it still right to think of you would file -- you would tear up your balance sheet during the test year versus prospectively like how you cut for the CapEx? Yes during the test year likely yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess you guys have long pointed towards your 4% dividend growth to keep the payout ratio flat which is perfectly in line with your 2014 guidance.
Should we think about your growth rate remaining in line with the dividend growth? Or I guess can you help me kind of bridge the gap between the 4% growth rate and your 6% rate base growth for 2015 and '16? Well Kevin we haven't come out with a long-term EPS growth rate.
But like we said at the analyst meeting last year you have 6% rate base growth 4% dividend growth.
That's going to be your bookends for earnings growth on a sort of a CAGR knowing that any year could be plus or minus depending upon various factors.
Research Division</strong> And the reason that 2014 is maybe not towards the 6% because of a delay in Four Corners.
If Four Corners wasn't delayed then you'd probably be closer to 6%.
Is that how we should think about it? No I think some of the factors for next year are things like a smaller -- we're basing it as a smaller TCA this year.
That will pick up in '15 just based on transmission spend and the way our formula works.
And we are only have Four Corners for 1/2 a year you're exactly right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess when I think about energy efficiency.
So for this quarter I saw we had 1.3% population growth but weather-normal is negative 1.3%.
And so that's roughly 2.5% I guess energy efficiency netting.
What was unique about the third quarter which drove so much I guess energy efficiency versus the future periods? I don't think there's anything unique about this year's quarter.
Sales were off 1.2% last year which was actually a little better than we thought it'd be last year.
So nothing really unique about the third quarter.
Keep in mind you have a lot of weather variability in our largest quarter.
That always has an impact on numbers as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the big net energy efficiency loss could be a little bit of weather kind of baked in there just from...
Weather is an art not a science.
I know guys disagree with that assessment but you look at average temperature and you get peak highs and lower lows and it always has an impact.
But that's our calculation that we came up with.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So let me just ask one last question.
So I know Jim you spent a lot of time just on O&amp;M generally.
When you're thinking about flat O&amp;M is flat to -- is it on absolute basis? And are you thinking flat off of year end 2013 so whatever the numbers is this year should kind of hover that level until you file another rate case? Or are you seeing -- or you're already pegging that with volume growth or can you actually see maybe expected year-on-year cut in O&amp;M? Well I would pick if we see sort of net kWh sales growth our aspiration is to be at or lower than the rate of sales growth.
So as we look to next year with the 0.5% kWh sales expectation I would think you could assume that we're going to be fairly flat in '14 over '13.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So still it's flat to volume growth not flat on absolute basis? Correct.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Chin with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Could you just remind us again what is the CapEx guidance for '13? And then I know you didn't give it explicitly in the '14 number but is there a CapEx number that you're thinking of '14 is well? Just so that we can triangulate properly.
Yes so the '14 number is roughly a little over $900 million.
Our '13 number is about $1.1 billion.
Keep in mind we've assumed the Four Corners in there for '13 which pushes that number up a bit.
Research Division</strong> Great great.
And then for '14 is there a depreciation and amortization number that we're thinking...
It's about $400 million a year.
Our next question comes from the line of Kit Konolige with BGC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been addressed.
Just on the inclusion of Four Corners the settlement in 2012 envisioned that going into rates.
What does the Commission need to decide or consider in order to grant approval for that to go into rates? Well the docket was held open for Four Corners.
We will file the cost of service and ask before the end of the year.
And like we said earlier that pace has been adjudicated once and we will just update our expectation for cost of service with our filing and we expect it to go into effect July 1.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you expect it to be -- I mean do you expect this to be a contested issue? Are people going to look at your cost of service and come back and say "This is way too high" or something to that effect? Well any sort of regulatory filing has people on all sides.
I will say this came out in the last case that was adjudicated what we believe our cost of service should be.
I think you could expect people to question any sort of changes in that.
But the cost of service has been put out there and explained in our last -- in the original filing.
So I don't think it will be a surprise to anybody.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And one other area on net metering.
If you got what you would like to see the changes you'd like to see made how would that affect rates? Well our proposal staff proposal and I haven't read through the whole process yet so I can't really comment although I'm sure it's probably similar is it's some sort of monthly charge.
But keep in mind all of the -- there's no new money to APS.
Any fee collected in the near term would go to offset the LFCR.
So there would be no net revenue to APS and a reduction in LFCR going forward until the next rate case will use that rate case design.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right understood.
Okay.
Kit let me -- this is Don.
As I know you know net metering is a cost shifting issue.
It's fundamentally a customer issue.
It's no secret to the current net metering structure creates a cost shift that unfairly burdens nonsolar customers.
Other important stakeholders like the ACC's staff and RUCO has acknowledged this fact.
And without a doubt the time to fix this problem is now before it gets worse.
And that's the key is fix it now while it's easily fixable.
The best way to encourage the continued growth of rooftop solar is not through hidden subsidies as currently exist with the net metering structure.
And those subsidies are funded by nonsolar customers.
But rather through transparent upfront incentives funded by all customers.
And fixing the current net metering policy will help continue Arizona's national leadership in solar energy.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
So I was kind of trying to get at the idea of how much would rates change for nonsolar customers? Is this a big impact or is this spread out over so many customers that it's relatively small and they're relatively indifferent to how this proceeding turns out? Near term there will be no change to nonsolar customers.
As proposed by us and staff it would be a monthly charge other than whatever they decide to do with upfront incentives which should be collected through the rest.
Our next question comes from the line of Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Could you provide some clarity on the major transmission projects that you're currently working on right now? And what are the incremental opportunities that sit in front of you that could present some upside to your transmission budget? Well our biggest project -- I mean we have several projects as we talked about.
Our biggest project is our Hassayampa in North Gila Substation 2 which is about a $230 million spend that does not go into service until May of '15.
So that's our big one.
Everything else is pretty fairly routine.
We're always adding substations and adding capacity to make sure the system's robust.
So between now and '15 I don't really see any incremental opportunities.
Longer term as growth picks up we've got to do more and more transmissions just to support the system load.
Our next question comes from the line of Craig Lucas with Nexus Asset Management.
I have another -- I have a question about net metering.
I know that this -- didn't head over the last couple of questions.
But my question is that your guidance for next year as well as your comments around the 9.5% ROE are they assuming that the net metering issue is fixed within that guidance or does it -- does your guidance assume status quo regarding TG? Well as I said earlier Craig let's assume that Commission rules on the staff proposal for example.
That offset is a reduction in the LFCR.
So again there will be known net gross margin to APS until such time we have our next rate case.
Well that may be true but it's obviously also true that about 0.5% of sales growth then would obviously benefit the company even though the money would go essentially to obviously properly incentive the real economics of solar and that cross subsidy.
But obviously there would be 0.5% of better sales coming through...
The 0.5% is not going away.
It's here and it's on the system.
Right but I apologize.
That existing solar customers would not change but the continued growth in that class would obviously change right? The growth -- it would be so incremental and small as to not be noticeable in our '14 guidance.
I see.
So basically what you had would stay and then the stick would kind of the property attuned let's say going forward? Yes I mean again it right now is 0.5%.
We have about 20 000 residential installations.
That's a small piece of the system.
And any up or down of sort of installation is not going to really impact our key number.
I see.
One more little question though.
Also so if you're able to fix this through the cross-subsidy issue that really -- there's really no reason to go in for a rate case until the '16 timeframe.
Is that kind of the way we should think about it or beyond? This is U.S.
nothing to do with our thinking of the next rate case.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Fishman with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just in comparing Slides 16 to 17 on '14 guidance the gross margin stays about the same.
Expenses stay roughly the same.
Interest expense actually goes up.
Tax rate sure is about the same.
Is it because of the footnote that you've got a little bit of a bump up in your guidance versus '13? Is it because of renewable energy and energy efficiency programs? Where does the little bit of increase come from? Well they come from our mechanisms: 1.5 a year Four Corners; interest in DNA is going to go up.
But that's sort of a-- and then that's sort of a difference in our guidance would be those 2 factors: a little higher gross margin; a little higher interest in G&amp;A in 2014.
Research Division</strong> But does the renewable energy programs and efficiency programs they add a little bit don't they to make up for the gross margin loss or...? Well we have the LFCR which part and then we have the Renewable Energy Standard which is our implementation plan.
So any of the Arizona Sun projects we know we're going to get 32 megawatts in '14 and that will help gross margin as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I probably need plug in your '14 numbers and talk to Paul and get clear on that.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
I just wanted to sort a follow-up with the -- sort of on Craig's question in maybe a different way.
What I'm wondering here is what is the impact of taking away the subsidy on this 0.5% let's just talk about going forward perhaps or in other words what the sensitivity to -- in other words if you do away with the subsidy for solar which seems to be precipitously defended by the solar advocates what would be the impact on new installation? Could you give us a little bit of a flavor as to what would happen in terms of new solar what you would estimate would happen as a result of new solar applications? Well Paul Don Brandt here.
It's important to take our proposals in their entirety.
And most importantly upfront we said is the existing -- whether it's 18 000 20 000 customers that are already on rooftop to grandfather them so they're not impacted.
If you like there's a takeaway.
To fix and we had 2 different proposals basically to fix the nontransparent subsidy that is inherent in the current net metering structure.
But then equally importantly is to provide an upfront transparent subsidy.
We didn't recommend any specific number but our idea is a number that would continue to allow the rooftop solar market to continue to flourish in Arizona as it has been.
But to do it in a transparent manner that in future years every year the Commission could reconsider that amount of subsidy to reflect: one changing an overall public policy goals; but also the expectation is that solar panel prices and installation costs will continue to decline dramatically as they have in the past few years.
Okay that sounds great.
And I think it makes a lot of sense public policy wise.
I guess what I'm sort of wondering is from what I've seen from the solar industry they seemed almost apoplectic at the idea of changing this.
Which would suggest to me that perhaps it would -- it has a potential for threatening their business.
And I'm not sure if that's because of just simply the profit margin that's associated with it or if it's because of the level of installations or what have you being less.
But I guess I'm just trying to get a sense as to I mean when you put forward this I mean do you think this would lower the level of solar deployment...? It is lower.
But we thought it was a fair and equitable solution.
It's a customers issue balancing the interests of customers without solar and those that are going to elect to install solar.
There's no expectation that it would decline.
And just to sort of set the record straight I mean APS is one of the strongest proponents of solar energy in Arizona and we have the record to prove it.
Arizona has the largest percentage of per capita solar per customer in the nation.
And this is a cost shifting and fairness issue the current net metering structure.
When it became apparent we took action at the Corporation Commission that we believe is in the best interest of Arizona and all electricity customers.
And we look forward to a constructive discussion that we started earlier this year.
And as you point out and I think you used the perfect word to describe it but instead we immediately became the target of intense political attack from Solar City and Sunrun and a few other organizations that established organizations that twisted the facts misdirected the conversation from the actual issue and proposed ideas that would further harm our customers.
It wasn't a fight we sought and we would have preferred to avoid it.
But we had to set the record straight.
We have an obligation to our customers our employees and shareholders.
And I think it's going to be very evident in what's been filed already with the Commission and their hearings middle of next month.
Okay great.
Just to further -- not to put too fine a point on it but basically you don't see it having a material impact one way or the other in terms of your projected sales growth to the level of sales growth going forward in terms of the foreseeable future the next at least 2 or 3 years.
Is that the best way to think about -- am I correct in understanding that? I think that's very correct.
Kind of add my point of that I'd direct you if you want to take a look at the editorial in the Wall Street Journal the Monday before last about how government is making solar billionaires.
And that's how you get apoplectic behavior when they feel their profit margins are threatened.
We have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
Thanks Christine.
That concludes our call.
Thanks everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2013 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Paul Mountain Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Thank you Christine.
I'd like to thank everyone for participating in this conference call and webcast to review our fourth quarter and full year 2013 earnings recent developments and operating performance.
Our speakers today will be our Chairman and CEO Don Brandt; and our CFO Jim Hatfield.
Jeff Guldner who is APS Senior Vice President of Public Policy is also here with us.
First I need to cover a few details with you.
The slides that we will be using are available on our Investor Relations website along with our earnings release and related information.
Note that the slides contain reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Today's comments and our slides contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and the company assumes no obligation to update these statements.
Because actual results may differ materially from expectations we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements.
Our 2013 Form 10-K was filed this morning.
Please refer to that document for forward-looking statements cautionary language as well as risk factors and MD&amp;A sections which identify risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in our disclosures.
A replay of this call will be available shortly on our website for the next 30 days.
It will also be available by telephone through February 28.
I will now turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Paul and thank you all for joining us on the call today.
My comments today will discuss our operations and the strategic investments we are making to reliably serve our customers.
I'll conclude with a few areas to watch in 2014 and then Jim will discuss 2013 results and update you on our economics and financial outlooks.
Turning to our operations in 2013.
We delivered on our commitments and remained focused on operational excellence across the business as demonstrated by our top-tier performance in safety and reliability.
I'm proud to say that for the sixth consecutive year we recorded the lowest number of recordable injuries in our company's history moving closer to our goal of 0 recordable injuries.
The fossil and energy delivery teams in particular were instrumental in achieving this record performance.
Similarly providing a reliable electric service to our customers despite the hottest summer on record is our focus every single day and was demonstrated by top quartile performance again this year.
The Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station had another outstanding year with a capacity factor of 91%.
This represents the fourth consecutive year in which production exceeded 31 million megawatt hours and the ninth year in which Palo Verde was the only U.S.
generating facility to produce more than 30 million megawatt hours.
Unit 3 completed its planned outage in late November after finalizing repairs we found early in the outage related to a very small water leak from an instrumentation tube that connects to the bottom of the reactor vessel.
Turning to capital investments.
We expanded our generation portfolio by completing the Four Corners transaction which I'll discuss in a moment and also added over 400 megawatts of solar energy.
Key additions to the solar portfolio include the 250-megawatt Solana plant which went into service in October of last year as well as another 32 megawatts of AZ Sun that went into service in December at Hyder II in Foothills Phase 2.
Over the next several years we expect the solar generation portfolio to continue to grow with 32 megawatts of AZ Sun going into service in mid-2014 and 20 megawatts of AZ Sun expected in 2015.
These additions including the 20 megawatts recently approved by our commission bring our owned utility scale solar commitment to 170 megawatts or about $695 million.
Let me to discuss the Four Corners in a bit more detail as that transaction represents an important milestone.
First I'd like to thank Dave Hansen our Vice President of Fossil Generation and the team that they've worked with that was involved for the commitment and patience in seeing this transaction through to its completion despite a challenging set of circumstances.
The transaction provides ongoing long-term benefit to the region ranging from reduced emissions additional low-cost generation for our customers and continued support of the Navajo Nation.
On December 30 APS notified the EPA that the Four Corners participants selected the BART alternative which required APS to permanently retire the Four Corners Units 1 2 and 3 by January 1 2014 and install and operate selective catalytic reduction control technology on Units 4 and 5 by July 31 2018.
The environmental spend will be mostly in the period 2016 and 2017.
Units 1 2 and 3 were retired on December 30.
Decommissioning work began immediately and is expected to last about 3 years with the help of employees already dedicated to those units.
Also on December 30 APS filed an application with the Arizona Corporation Commission to recover costs associated with purchase of Southern California Edison's interest in Four Corners.
We expect a procedural order from the administrative law judge soon that will lay out the timeline with the decision from the commission expected later this year.
As part of the application process we have been conducting technical conferences in February to discuss the specifics of the filing with many of the interested stakeholders.
Another plant that plays an important role in our fleet and in maintaining the values reliability is Ocotillo a 330-megawatt 4-unit gas plant in Tempe Arizona.
We announced the Ocotillo modernization project earlier this month which will involve retiring 2 110-megawatt steam units constructed in 1960 adding 5 102-megawatt combustion turbines to the site and maintaining the 2 existing 55-megawatt combustion turbines.
In total this will increase the capacity of the Ocotillo site to 620 megawatts adding 290 megawatts to what is there today.
The project targeted for completion by the summer of 2018 will represent an investment of between $600 million and $700 million to ensure the continued reliability of service in our Phoenix service area and allow our generation fleet to respond to increasing intermittent generation in the desert southwest.
Construction will likely start in 2016.
In addition to these generation investments we're making significant investments in the grid much of which is to support renewable generation and key transmission infrastructure.
On January 31 APS filed the annual 10-year plan for major transmission facilities.
Two projects of note include the Hassayampa to North Gila 2 project that is well underway and is still expected to be online in the second quarter of 2015 as well as a series of projects linking the Palo Verde power hub to a substation in Northeast Phoenix.
These projects have been in our capital forecast.
The projects I highlighted are the key driver of our rate base growth.
We have updated our estimates as we now expect rate base growth of 6% to 7% through the year 2018.
Looking ahead to 2014.
We have included the slide to outline some of the key regulatory and political milestones for the year.
On the regulatory calendar in addition to our annual filings related to the adjusters and compliance we will be filing quarterly reports on distributed generation or roof-top solar installations.
We will also participate in a series of commission-led workshops on distributed generation and other technological developments as they occur throughout the year.
Let me conclude with a comment on the November net metering decision.
The commission made a significant first step in recognizing the cost shift embedded in the net metering construct.
The industry generally acknowledges this decision as the first significant advancement in the nation of the cost shift issues associated with distributed generation installations.
The $0.70 per kilowatt charge took effect on January 1.
Also included in the order in an effort to protect our customers was a requirement that each residential customer owning or leasing a roof-top solar system sign a disclaimer as part of the interconnection process to heighten consumer awareness of the risk embedded in the agreement as it relates to potential future rate changes.
That net metering order also stated that APS shall file its next rate case in June 2015 for the provisions of the 2012 settlement to more fully analyze the cost shift issue.
We will work with the stakeholders and the commission through the workshops and other discussions before we determine how best to proceed.
As always we will continue to advocate for the best interests of our customers and for a sustainable solar policy for Arizona.
As you can see we can anticipate another full year ahead but our priorities are clear and the management team and I remain committed to that strategy.
I'll now turn the call over to Jim.
Thank you Don.
The topics I will discuss today are outlined on Slide 4.
I'll begin with the review of our 2013 full year results followed by a discussion of our fourth quarter results including earnings and the primary variances from last year's quarter.
I'll then provide an update on the status and outlook for the Arizona economy.
Next we'll review our balance sheet strength including recent upgrades of our credit ratings and our financing activities.
I'll conclude with the review of 2014 earnings guidance.
Slide 5 summarizes our ongoing and GAAP earnings for the quarter and full year.
On a GAAP basis for the fourth quarter of 2013 we reported consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders of $24 million or $0.22 per share compared with net income of $23 million or $0.20 per share for the prior year's fourth quarter.
On an ongoing basis we reported consolidated ongoing earnings of $24 million or $0.22 per share for the 2013 fourth quarter versus ongoing earnings of $27 million or $0.24 per share for the same quarter a year ago.
For the full year 2013 on a GAAP basis we reported consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders of $406 million or $3.60 per share compared to net income of $382 million or $3.45 per share for 2012.
Our ongoing earnings for 2013 were also $3.66 per share compared to $3.50 per share for 2012 and in the top half of our guidance range of $3.55 to $3.70.
Pinnacle West earned a consolidated ROE of 9.9% in 2013 above our 9.5% goal.
Our remaining comments will focus on the fourth quarter ongoing and results.
Slide 6 outlines the variances that drove the change in quarterly ongoing earnings per share.
Lower operations and maintenance expenses added $0.05 per share largely driven by a lower employee benefit cost.
Lower interest expense improved earnings by $0.01 per share due to lower debt balances and lower interest rates.
The net impact of other items increased earnings by $0.06 per share primarily tax-related items of $0.04 per share.
Higher net operating expenses decreased earnings by $0.03 per share mainly reflecting an increase in depreciation and amortization due to additional plant in service.
A decrease in our gross margin reduced earnings by $0.11 per share compared with the prior year fourth quarter period.
I will cover the drivers of our gross margin variance on the next slide.
As a reminder both the gross margin and O&amp;M variances exclude expenses related to the Renewable Energy Standard energy efficiency and similar regulatory programs all of which are essentially offset by comparable revenue amounts under adjustment mechanisms.
Also the deferrals associated with the Four Corners transaction are treated in a similar manner as the O&amp;M and D&amp;A drivers I discussed exclude deferrals as they had no impact on 2013 results.
Turning to Slide 7 and the components of the net decrease of $0.11 in our gross margin.
The main component of this were as follows: the loss fixed cost recovery mechanism improved earnings by $0.02 per share which as designed largely offset lower customer usage; lower usage by APS as customers compared with the fourth quarter a year ago decreased our quarterly results by $0.03 per share; weather-normalized retail kilowatt hour sales were down 1.9% in the fourth quarter of 2013 versus 2012.
While our customer programs and conversation are the largest source of the reduction in sales this variance also reflects a convergence back to more normal usage trend compared to last year's fourth quarter.
This was in line with our expectations.
On a year-to-date basis weather-normalized retail kilowatt hour sales were down 0.5%.
Lower transmission revenues decreased earnings by $0.04 per share due to the timing of the FERC formula rate true-up.
The effects of weather decreased earnings by $0.05 per share.
During the fourth quarter we record cooling degree days in October and heating degree days in November and December.
A negative quarter-over-quarter variance was driven almost entirely by unfavorable weather versus normal in October of 2013.
In fact in terms of the number of cooling degree days last October recorded the fewest cooling degree days in the last 15 years.
The net effect of other miscellaneous items decreased gross margin by $0.01 per share.
Slides 8 9 and 10 look at the Arizona economy and our fundamental growth outlook.
Economic growth in Arizona continued its overall improvement in the fourth quarter of 2013 consistent with the prior 3 quarters although growth remains modest as has been the case for a year or so.
Vacant housing in Metro Phoenix has fallen by more than half since its peak in early 2010 and is at the lowest levels in 6 years.
Housing prices have responded.
On the upper left-hand side of Slide 8 you can see that prices on existing home sales are 18% -- are 17% higher than they were a year ago and up 45% from the bottom of the market in mid-2011.
Rising prices are providing more support to new home construction.
Additionally vacant rates have fallen in all nonresidential categories as you can see in the upper right of Slide 8.
On the lower left-hand side of Slide 8 shows that permits for new housing increased 12% in 2013 over 2012 and more than 150% from the low point in early 2011.
This activity plus business investment in the region has led to an 8% gain in construction jobs in just the last year alone which is supporting total nonfarm drive growth as seen in the lower right-hand side of Slide 8.
Consumers are also driving the recovery.
For 2013 Arizona consumer spending reached record highs.
On balance we see signs of sustained improvement in all economic indicators which paint a picture of continuing steady recovery.
Reflecting the steady improvement in economic conditions APS' customer base grew 1.3% compared with the year ago.
Looking at the next several years we expect annual customer growth to average about 2.5% for 2014 to 2016 with higher growth rates at the end of the period and in the near term for the reasons I've just discussed.
This outlook is depicted on Slide 9.
Additionally we expect our annual weather-normalized retail sales in kilowatt hours to increase by about 1% on average from 2014 through 2016 primarily due to improving customer growth being partially offset by our customer programs and conservation.
The headwinds from the overbuilt housing market and associated construction job losses are largely behind us.
And the state is poised to embark on the next phase to sustain growth.
Between 1970 and 2001 Arizona's economy joined the U.S.
economy on economic recession 5x.
And each time Arizona's recovery rebounded from recession at a rate 2 to 3x greater than the national average.
We expect that this pattern will repeat itself in this business cycle once the national economy returns to more stable and healthy growth rates.
One of the key regions for this expectation is the attractiveness of Phoenix as a place to live and do business in.
Phoenix is the largest city in the Western U.S.A.
-- Western United States outside of California and is almost 20% less expensive than living in California which is the world's ninth largest economy.
As an example the median single-family home in Phoenix is priced 54% lower than the median single-family home in San Diego and almost 60% lower than in Los Angeles.
These cost advantages are key to Phoenix-area businesses retaining a competitive edge in the California market as well as globally.
This resurgence in growth is expected over the next few years.
True to form Arizona's population rate is growing at double the national average.
The exact timing of this growth trajectory depends on many factors but the roots of our future growth are well anchored in fundamentals.
Besides history Slide 10 provides some anecdotal evidence of the economic outlook for Arizona.
Forbes project Arizona as the #1 state for job growth and ranked Phoenix third on their 2014 list of America's Fastest-Growing Cities.
Forbes is not alone.
Moody's.com has an outlook for Arizona growth over the next 5 years that is more robust in our own internal forecast.
Slide 11 outlines our investment-grade credit ratings and financing activities as we continue to strengthen the balance sheet.
In December Standard &amp; Poor's announced its upgrade to APS' senior unsecured rating to A- from BBB+ a ratings level the company hasn't enjoyed since the mid-'80s as well as similar upgrades to Pinnacle West in APS' corporate credit rating.
Additionally in January Moody's upgraded APS' senior unsecured and corporate credit ratings to 83 and Pinnacle West corporate credit rating to Baa1.
These upgrades will allow our company to borrow at lower interest rates reducing the financing costs from new infrastructure investment and system improvement projects while lowering costs to customers.
In connection with these ratings' actions the ratings agencies decide that the company is improving financial condition and focus on core utility operations as well as an improvement in the Arizona regulatory environment.
In terms of our financing.
On January 10 APS issued $250 million of 30-year 4.7% senior unsecured notes.
The proceeds from the sale were used to fund the purchase price and certain costs associated with the acquisition of SoCal Edison's 48% ownership interest in each of Units 4 and 5 for Four Corners and the replenished cash used to reacquire 2 series of tax exempt bonds in July and October of 2013.
We also plan to refinance a $300 million maturity this year and raise up to an additional $250 million of new money debt as we assumed in our guidance.
Overall liquidity is very strong.
At the end of the fourth quarter the parent company had no short-term debt outstanding.
APS had $153 million of commercial paper outstanding temporarily used to fund the Four Corners transaction.
We estimate we will not need to raise additional common equity until 2016.
The timing of our next general rate case will not necessarily drive the timing of our equity issuance.
On Slide 12 are some of the details of our pension and other postretirement benefits.
This will be a favorable driver in 2014 results as compared to 2013.
The 2 fundamental factors leading to lower expenses are a higher discount rate and improved funding status.
Our pension fund status is now 90% funded up from 77% at year-end 2012 driven by higher interest rates substantial equity returns and larger-than-assumed recent contributions.
As you know the impact of higher interest rates benefits a funded status and is supported by our liability driven investment strategy.
The higher funded status translates to lowering our long-term funding requirements.
Please note that much of this expense reduction was captured in our original 2014 earnings guidance we issued on October 31.
Finally I will discuss our earnings guidance.
We continue to expect Pinnacle West consolidated ongoing earnings for 2014 will be in the range of $3.60 to $3.75 per share.
A complete list of factors and assumptions underlying our 2014 guidance is included in the appendix to our slides which are mostly unchanged.
One update I would like to mention is the status of the Delaney-Colorado River transmission project that you have heard us talk about.
The project reached a milestone on February 3 when the project was recommended for approval by the California Independent System Operator to the California Independent System Operator Board of Governors.
The Board of Governors is expected to deliberate on this project after a March 20 meeting.
Keep in mind even if approved there will be a competitive solicitation process.
So we will not know if we are successful until the fourth quarter of the year.
The capital expenditures for this project are not included in our projected CapEx at this time.
We will continue to keep you updated in this regard.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we will now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Michael Weinstein with UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's Julien in here.
So just quickly could you just chat about the timing of issue of equity issuance and the context on the rate case and putting that in? I'm sorry if it wasn't exactly clear on the call.
Well I apologize if it wasn't clear on the call.
The point we're making -- I guess the only difference we talked about 2016 not until that year for equity.
We're not necessarily looking at needing equity associated directly with the rate case.
So even if it's pulled forward for example 2016 is still our year.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And that would just subsequently be pulled into in this further rate case? There would be no way to put that into the '15 case right? There's no true-up or anything? Well they have historically done no measurable change when we issued equity for the capital structure.
But our equity layer at APS for regulatory purposes right now is very strong so.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then could you -- just quickly going back to that last transition project you were talking about how much is that in terms of CapEx? And how would that change? And perhaps if you could talk broadly speaking about FERC 1 000 in the context of your participation with CAISO projects? Well as you know we submitted this project as an economic project back in 2011.
2012 it was recommended by the Cal-ISO.
It was -- did pull between that time and the Board of Governors approving the plan for 2012.
It's again been recommended by the -- to the Board of Governors.
It's about 3 -- it's a 115-mile transmission line really from the Palo Verde hub into the Colorado River substation across Colorado River and it's about $325 million.
We would do this in a partnership so our share would be half of that.
And if approved if the fourth -- if we win this competitive solicitation in the fourth quarter this project wouldn't go into service until 2020.
So we're still down the road but as we've talked about before I mean these are things we'd be interested away from APS.
And Jeff can you talk about 1000? Sure.
Julien Jeff Guldner.
This project's in Arizona so it's within the California planning process and that process is evolving with Order 1000 but it's one of the things that we looked at as the strengths that we have within that region and understanding the transmission in the region.
So it's folding that in with some of the Order 1000 developments.
Certainly we'd be looking within the footprint but at projects that make sense for our skills.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Excellent.
And then just lastly could you just talk quickly I mean obviously the -- you have the $0.70-kilowatt fixed charge now in place.
What's the timing at least as you see the world in terms of getting step-ups in that rate? Julien Jeff again.
So we do quarterly reporting now in terms of what we're seeing with installations and that's something that all of the parties have indicated that they want to watch.
They want to see how the $0.70 charge affects the installation pace.
And so as those numbers start to come in you'll have a number of parties who are looking at them and then they may take action based on where we see that trajectory going but nothing is specific yet.
We're very early in that process.
We don't know exactly now what that trend's going to look like.
And Julien this is Jim here.
I'll just remind you that even if they decide to step it up it's no revenue impact to us.
It just goes offset to that -- to the LFCR.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Cole with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess Jeff while you're on the phone can you talk a little bit more about the options available to you to avoid co-mingling of net metering with the potential 2015 rate case? Just a path and timing for visibility into resolution? Sure Kevin.
So we've got a couple of things going right now.
There's -- first there's a distributed generation workshop.
And so they're going to be looking at the cost and benefits distributed generation.
Obviously that is occurring outside the rate case contacts.
We'll also be looking at making a rate plan filing later in the year.
And so in the rate plan filing we'll have some discussions.
Obviously something that we want to look at is how we make sure we have as constructive a discussion as we can in a generic sense because it's not just an APS issue this is a statewide issue.
And so have that discussion and then as we move into the rate case that's when you would implement some of the more rate-specific solutions.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry so are you saying that the net metering will be a part of the rate -- are you guys doing the 2015 rate case? Sorry if I misunderstood what you said.
I just think it's too early Kevin to know what our filing's going to look like right now.
I think the visibility on this will be later in the year when we file our rate plan which was a requirement of the last settlement.
But you've got proceedings that are be -- going to be going on this year prior to any rate case.
Research Division</strong> When will those proceedings end? There isn't a docket -- there's a docket established but there's not yet a timeline that's established for having those proceedings.
So they're going to just continue under the schedule that's developed.
What we've proposed so far is a list of potential parties and experts and witnesses that can talk through those proceedings.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess the earliest we'll find out about if net metering can be separate from the rate case is the end of this year and the latest is if you file a rate case middle of next year? That's the timing? Yes.
Yes that's probably correct.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jim can you elaborate a little more about the visibility that you have on the sales growth and also the customer growth trends that you're assuming for '14 through '16? If you look at the second half of last year retail sales were down in both third and fourth quarter.
Customer growth has been running at about 1.3%.
So the pickup in customer growth but more importantly retail sales can you just remind us again on how that math works and how you're confident given the second half of last year? Well as -- first of all the fourth quarter was off 1.9% on sales.
I'd point out that to comment on return to more normal we were up 1% on usage per customer in the fourth quarter of 2012.
So again you have sort of the one year up one year down effect.
And like I said in my comments I mean fundamentally Arizona has demonstrated ability to grow 2 to 3x faster than the U.S.
And also as I said in my comments it's not clear when that will be '14 '15 but we're confident in the long-term growth in the State of Arizona because the fundamentals have not changed.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
I get it.
And then at the back -- in the appendix you laid out a 5-year rate base growth trajectory 6.6% average I think you -- 6% to 7% as you talked about on the call as well.
What's sort of the visibility or confidence level in that 5-year growth for rate base? And what will that equate to from an earnings per share growth for the company? The visibility we have in -- through 2018 is -- I would say I'm pretty confident.
I mean Ocotillo still needs approval and we have to get permitting and all of those things but we've announced that project.
It's critical for reliability in the valley for both us and SRP.
And then the other big driver as we get into '17 '18 is going to be the SCRs at Four Corners 4 and 5 which the owners are committed to do.
So we're -- things move around every year as circumstances change but I think we're pretty confident that that is the trajectory of rate base growth.
In terms of earnings I think it really depends on a couple of factors.
What happens to sales timing of rate case will be important.
So as we've said when we have 6% rate-base growth you're going to see earnings per share growth somewhere between rate base growth and the 4% dividend growth.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
Got it.
And lastly more near term.
If I recall correctly you've assumed that new rates for Four Corners will go into effect July 1 onwards.
Is the current schedule keeping you on track? And is that what's embedded in the '14 guidance? '14 guidance has Four Corners July 1.
I think we don't have a procedural schedule yet so don't know when we'll get that.
But I think once we get the ALJ schedule we'll have -- when those go into effect in the interim we're deferring the cost with 1 2 and 3 and 4 and 5 acquisition until the time they go into effect.
So cash impact but no book impact.
Our next question comes from the line of Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Given the LFCR what's the sensitivity to every 1% change in weather-normal demand in 2014? Well 1% in weather demand? Research Division</strong> The weather-normal demand.
Oh weather-normal demand.
Well every -- generally speaking every 1% customer growth is about $30 million of gross margin about $10 million of net income.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So as demand tracks below expectations more like the second half of '13 type of run rate do you think you have the O&amp;M flexibility to still make the midpoint of guidance? We're confident in our guidance.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then last question on transmission adjustment clauses in 2014.
Approximately what's the rate increase related to transmission...
We haven't filed that yet Neil.
Part of our adjustment in the fourth quarter of '13 was a true-up to what we expect to file but we have not worked through the Form 1 yet.
We expect to file that probably around April 1 would be a good time line.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Chin with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on Slide 12 your pension expenses.
It looked as though there were some adjustments to the discount rate and the plan assets and so it looks as though your pension expense will be a little bit lower in '14 and '15 than what it was in '13.
Given that the guidance for '14 didn't really change can you just give a little bit more color as to what some of the offsets to that might be? Or has the retention of the guidance been just a little bit more of conservatism on your part or is it a little bit of mix of both? Just a little bit of extra color there.
Well I think a little bit of both.
We -- when we came out with guidance on August 31 we had a fairly good view of interest rates.
So we knew we'd have some reduction -- or some increase in the discount rate.
We factored that in.
We have a liability-funded pension strategy which the more we're funded the more we go -- move toward fixed income.
And so we do -- the long-term return on plan assets will drop as we get more funded.
So we made a educated guess at the end of October and where we are now that we have the assumptions nailed down is not materially different than what we had in October.
And of course it'd be I think for us kind of silly to change our guidance based on truing up the pension from -- to really one month of the year.
So that's some conservatism in that regard.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Fishman with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Ocotillo would not be covered by a tracker.
I mean that would have to wait for the rate case following 2016? Well it could or could not.
I mean we haven't made any decisions on our rate strategy there.
We won't really begin spending any material money until 2016.
So -- and I think what we try to do from a rate strategy also depends on the timing of the rate case.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But that's planned? I mean that's not considered an environmental thing or I mean it wouldn't be covered by any trackers correct? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's what I thought.
And then just on the FERC true-up that caused the $0.04 in the recently ended quarter.
I always thought those FERC true-ups were like clockwork.
What happened? Well so we basically when we're going to file next year we've began to actually charge to revenue a portion of what we think we're going to do next year because it's for this year period.
And that came out of our settlement when we had the actual date of June 1 in Arizona as well as FERC.
And various things impact that.
What goes into service what expense levels are what our wheeling revenue is.
And so as we go through the year we just get a better view as to where we're going to end up the year and -- I mean we're talking $0.02 increase last in '12 and $0.02 down this year.
So I'd say it is pretty close actually.
Research Division</strong> So nobody really challenged the true-up.
It was just a procedural thing? It's an internal thing.
This is Jeff.
It's the way the formula works.
And so everything that's happening in the true-up is normal formula adjustments and they just become clearer as you work through the formula year.
Our next question comes from the line of Rajeev Lalwani with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Can you just walk through the timeline and approval process for the Ocotillo project? And then I have a follow-up.
I can only tell you that we're -- we have to get permitting -- we have to get approval from the city of Tempe.
Yes this is Jeff.
There's about a year-long certificate of environmental compliance or compatibility process that takes place.
And so that would go before the Arizona Commission.
Ultimately they are the ones who approves the certificate of environmental compatibility.
And then once that's approved you've got your other normal air permitting and the other things that would go forward.
But that initial regulatory approval is about a 12-month process.
Research Division</strong> And then a clarification of a question earlier or an answer earlier.
The 1% sales growth that you noted from '14 to '16 does that include any benefit from the LFCR? And if it doesn't what would the benefit of the LFCR be on top of the 1% if that make sense? Yes.
So obviously as customer growth increases from where we are today at 2.5% we're going to begin to see a sales growth increase as well.
On top of that 1% would be some benefit of the LFCR or whatever else happens out of net metering in the rate case.
That would be consistent with what we're doing today from an LFCR perspective.
It's like $0.01 to $0.02 a quarter basically.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on a percentage basis where does that come out to? Like 0.5% or so? I think this year's filing was like 0.7% or something like that.
It started at 0.2%.
It's capped at 1% rate increase.
So that would be your top end.
Yes we're about 0.75% rate on this year's.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So going forward from a modeling standpoint weather-normalized sales growth should be something like 1.5% 1.7% or so? Well you need to separate sales from revenue because we think sales gross can be about 1% and then you have some of your adjusters that you would include on top of that like TTA RES LFCR EIS when we get later into the period.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Kit Konolige with BGC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the $0.70 per net metering obviously it has not been in place very long but I'm sure you guys are watching it closely.
Do you have any early returns or even anecdotal kinds of feedback on whether it's having any impact one way or the other? Kit this is Don.
No we're just a month or so into it.
To draw any conclusions from the statistics would be pure speculation.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And if I understood your correctly basically your strategy towards any further proposed alteration in let's say the level of that charge would you want to gather evidence and go through these workshops and it may or may not be something that is part of the next rate case? I think you're correct.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim von Riesemann with CRT Capital.
Research Division</strong> Chairman Stump was in New York last month and made a couple comments about some of the regulatory policies that the ACC is going to be examining and then he also brought up the topic of ballot initiatives.
And at that time he had mentioned the possibility of a retail competition ballot initiative going into Arizona.
I know judging currently it's not on the ballot but can you just give an update with that and some of the dynamic pricing and some of the other things that they were talking about? Jim this is Jeff.
The -- we don't know of any ballot initiative right now.
There's legislation that's out there right now and I think there is one bill that was introduced that had a competition kind of broadly defined competition language in it.
But that hasn't -- I don't believe that's moved right now and so obviously we'd be watching that but [indiscernible] there yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I have just one nit question if you don't mind.
Sorry to do this on a call.
The CapEx from the slide deck doesn't match your cash flow CapEx in the 10-K.
It's off by about $152 million.
Am I missing something there? I'll have to look -- we'll have to look into that.
We also have -- we also accrued CapEx at -- in December but I -- we'll have to look into that.
Our next question is from Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jim just a follow-up.
Wanted to be clear I was understanding you right on your thoughts on equity needs and so on.
So what would be the trigger for the equity offering? I guess you're looking at that in 2016.
Is it to true-up the balance sheet for the rate case even though you may have filed earlier? Or is it more to look at your CapEx forecast next 3 years and look at funding needs? What would be that sort of triggering element for you in terms of when you end up raising equity? What would -- what we'll be looking at is our credit metrics to protect our A- credit rating.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's looking at your funding needs et cetera.
But to be clear given your equity layered at APS right now you're fairly comfortable that you will be at your threshold through the rate case process? Yes I'm very comfortable.
Our next question comes from the line of Andy Levi with Avon Capital Advisers.
I just wanted to shake out a little bit more just to make sure I understood it.
So just back on the sales can you just explain a little bit in more detail I guess from what you were saying that the third quarter and particularly the fourth quarter of 2012 was unusually high and that is what's making the fourth quarter of 2013 look uglier than it really is and really is not something that we should focus on going forward.
So can you maybe just talk about that? Yes.
Well usually...
Because the reason I say that is I kind of look at how your stock's trading and I think that may be affecting it today.
Well if you look at fourth quarter of 2012 usage per customer was up 1% from what we'd consider normal customer usage and customer growth.
And it was lower in the fourth quarter of 2013 by 1.9% with 1% of that being the offset of last year.
I will point out this and you have a quarter where -- and the first quarter was like this as well.
Any anomaly in weather can really skew sort of usage just based on weather patterns.
So we're not worried about it.
We see it a lot in the first and fourth quarters just because of the very low usage.
We're still confident in our projections going forward.
So I guess what's the fourth quarter just in general is that your lowest earnings quarter? First quarter would be.
First quarter and then second -- then it comes fourth quarter then you really make your money in the second and third quarter.
So I guess that what you're saying is just to paraphrase is because of weather and because of low usage it's very hard to kind of use that number as some type of trend? I would say that despite my team's best assertations weather is an art not a science when it comes to exactly what's weather-driven and what's not weather-driven.
And the other thing is I kind of wanted I guess give you an opportunity for a better way to put it is you kind of look at how the stock's done particularly since the last 5 or 6 months and you went from trading at a pretty nice premium to the group and then kind of after EEI and the things that kind of happened with rooftop solar and the -- kind of the ruling there which obviously didn't really affect your earnings your trading gives you the third cheapest stock in the group on the regulated side.
So how do you kind of turn that around? And why if you had to kind of just talk about a few things why it shouldn't be justified? And maybe address kind of the regulatory atmosphere in Arizona which is probably not as bad as what's being portrayed in the stock.
Andy first I'll say the regulatory atmosphere I think is very positive.
There was a lot of relatively ugly media coverage generated by certain parties in particularly the second -- excuse me third and fourth quarter last year.
That's probably got some impact a fair amount of notoriety.
I think a number of other states around the country are going to take up the cause and we'll see where it goes.
But coming back to I think the intrinsic value that Pinnacle West has to offer is first as a lot of the charts and numbers Jim went over is the intrinsic growth that's inherent in our service territory the level of rate base growth we've got.
We are very successful I think one of the best operators in the nation and that all adds up to the creation of shareholder value over a longer period of time.
One little nit on to add to Jim's comments about the fourth quarter we did have an October -- month of October where heating-degree days were all but nonexistent.
So I won't get into the statistics of it but the weather-normalizing model is a statistical model.
And when you get a few standard deviations off of a normal weather pattern in one of the weakest -- traditionally weakest quarters of the year I wouldn't use the fourth quarter of '13 to predict any kind of a future trend.
All right.
And then the last question I have is just can you just remind us of dividend policy going forward? Current intention of the board is to grow the dividend approximately 4% a year and they'll look at that every October and make a determination.
But certainly with rate-base growth and the adjusters and our ability to earn we'd expect that to continue something to board annual action.
Due to time constraints our final question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just very quickly on the 1% sales growth.
Does that anticipate any change in the impact from solar installations? No it's really at a projection of continued rooftop solar.
Okay.
So in other words the changes that we've seen so far which is you guys have indicated is too early to really sort of measure what the impact will be from the recent regulatory decision.
As far as your -- the numbers that you have at the 1% you guys are not baking in any significant change as a result of that regulatory decision? Correct.
We have reached the end of the question-and-answer session and I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
That concludes the call.
Thanks everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Paul Mountain Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Thank you Christine.
I'd like to thank everyone for participating in this conference call and webcast to review our first quarter 2014 earnings recent developments and operating performance.
Our speakers today will be our Chairman and CEO Don Brandt; and our CFO Jim Hatfield.
Jeff Guldner who is APS Senior Vice President of Public Policy is also here with us.
First I need to cover a few details with you.
The slides that we will be using are available on our Investor Relations website along with our earnings release and related information.
Note that the slides contain reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Today's comments in our slides contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations.
And the company assumes no obligation to update these statements.
Because actual results may differ materially from expectations we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements.
Our first quarter Form 10-Q was filed this morning.
Please refer to that document for forward-looking statements cautionary language as well as the risk factors in MD&amp;A sections which identify risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in our disclosures.
A replay of this call will be available shortly on our website for the next 30 days.
It will also be available by telephone through May 9.
I will now turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Paul and thank you all for joining us today.
My comments today will focus on our generation portfolio and the regulatory landscape in Arizona.
Jim will discuss the first quarter results and update you on our economic and financial outlook.
I'll begin with our Integrated Resource Plan filed on April 1 which outlines how we plan to meet Arizona's growing energy needs over the next 15 years.
Our portfolio will continue to evolve into a cleaner more flexible generation mix driven by renewable energy energy efficiency and natural gas with advanced technologies making the grid smarter and adding operational flexibility.
In our resource plan we predict that the amount of renewable energy in our portfolio will double by 2029 driven by our continued leadership in solar energy.
The Solar Electric Power Association released its annual ranking of top solar utilities earlier this week and APS moved up one spot to number three for growth in solar megawatts during 2013.
We rank among the top five utilities for solar power in four categories.
Looked at another way our solar investments combined with the investment in Solana Generating Station enabled by our purchase power agreement totaled $3 billion.
The AZ Sun Program is an important piece of that story.
Construction and interconnection work remains on track at the Gila Bend site.
The project with an expected in-service date of mid 2014 will bring 32 megawatts of utility-scale solar online.
The next two projects totaling 20 megawatts that were approved by the ACC in December 2013 are in the early stages of development.
The 10 megawatt project in the City of Phoenix was approved by the City Council recently an important step allowing us to move forward and we are working with Luke Air Force Base on the land and the site plan for the 10 megawatt project at Luke.
In a recent filing with the ACC we requested approval to develop another 20 megawatts of utility-owned solar at Redhawk Power Station to meet our renewable obligation under the 2009 settlement.
If approved by the ACC the 20 megawatts would bring the total approved in the AZ Sun program to a 190 megawatts.
The Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station had an excellent quarter.
All three units were at full power slightly improved from the site capacity factor of 99% in last year's first quarter.
The first of this year's two planned refueling outages began in Unit 2 on April 5 with all key work streams on track.
We discussed our summer preparedness plan with the commission last month.
APS is well-positioned to meet customer demand this summer despite drought conditions from a very dry winter that is expected to result in higher fire potential beginning in May.
As we do each year we monitor the health of our substations and the wires which includes several methods of visual observation and we have added a new level of contingency planning where we automatically and frequently run training scenarios of how to respond to potential issues within the Western Interconnect.
Now turning to the regulatory landscape I'll preface my comments with a brief recap.
We were the first major utility to open a dialog about how to enable the continued growth of rooftop solar and still protect customers who do not want or cannot install solar on their homes.
As we wrote in December 2012 when we proposed a stakeholder conference to explore the subject and I quote "It is APS's intent that the conference results in a collaborative solution resting on three primary pillars: one an equitable and balanced distribution of cost and benefits; two subsidies if any that are transparent; and three a sustainable means for solar to continue in Arizona." By raising the net metering problem early long before there is a financial issue for our company APS and Arizona are in a stronger position today.
The ACC and other stakeholders including the state's Residential Utility Consumer Office or RUCO have recognized that net metering creates an unfair cost shift causing non-solar customers to pay higher rates to maintain the electricity grid.
Commissioners and staff now understand the issue as well as any public utilities commission in the nation.
Our relationships with the commission and the staff and other stakeholders remain very constructive.
On April 15 we filed the first quarterly reports on the level of rooftop applications and installations.
More than 2 200 residential grid type solar photovoltaic systems were installed in the first quarter bringing the total number on our system to more than 25 000.
There were 1 100 applications in the first quarter compared to 1 800 in the first quarter of last year and 2 600 in the fourth quarter.
The new rules related to rooftop solar have only been in effect for a few months and have shown significant month-to-month volatility.
So I believe it's too early to draw conclusions about what the pace of installations in the first quarter of this year means.
The important point is that Arizona remains ahead of schedule to meet its goals for renewable energy.
While we and the commission monitor rooftop activity a series of three workshops are being conducted this year.
One on energy efficiency and that concluded in April; the second on innovative technologies which is in process; and the third on the value and cost of distributed generation which will get underway next week.
The workshops provide a forum to collaborate with the commission RUCO and other stakeholders while also learning from industry experts whose opinions we value in these venues.
One point remains clear.
A robust grid is needed by all customers and rate design needs to evolve to accommodate changing technologies and preserve the integrity of the system.
We have confidence that Arizona regulators understand the issue and will protect the balance of customers who do not use or have access to distributed generation technologies.
APS is an early adopter of solar energy and smart grid technology and we are an industry leader in proactively addressing regulatory and revenue challenges associated with each.
I expect a productive dialog with key stakeholders over the next several months especially on the complex topic of distributed energy and net metering.
Turning to two highlights related to our people.
Earlier this year we announced several internal organizational changes to expand the experience of key executives and transfer knowledge between critical roles.
These changes continue to build our bench strength and drive efficiencies throughout the organization.
I am also proud to share that APS was selected as a finalist for the 2014 Secretary of Defense Employers Support Freedom Award generally known as the Freedom Award.
This award is the United States Department of Defense's highest honor for employers and recognizes companies that provide extraordinary support to their National Guard and Reserve employees.
APS is among 30 finalists for the award and made the cut from a pool of more than 2 800 nominated organizations.
Let me conclude with a personal observation about Arizona's economy.
Jim will walk you through several economic indicators which continue to move in a positive direction.
More broadly though there is a new sense of momentum among the business community here in Arizona.
Forbes Magazine has ranked Arizona as the number one state for expected job growth over the next five years beating out Texas for the top spot.
Forbes also ranked Phoenix the third fastest growing city in America.
I spent the last few weeks talking about the economy with business leaders across the state and I'm struck by the optimism and enthusiasm I've encountered.
That's an economic indicator that's not easily quantified but important nonetheless.
The fact remains that Arizona is an outstanding place to live and conduct business.
I'll now turn the call over to Jim.
Thank you Don.
The topics I will discuss today are outlined on Slide 4.
I'll begin with a review of our first quarter results including earnings and the primary variances from last year's first quarter followed by an update on the Arizona economy and I'll conclude with a review of our financial outlook.
Slide 5 summarizes our GAAP net income and ongoing earnings which are the same this quarter.
As usual my comments will refer to ongoing earnings.
For the first quarter of 2014 we reported consolidated ongoing earnings of $16 million or $0.14 per share compared with ongoing earnings of $24 million or $0.22 per share for the first quarter of 2013.
Excluding the effects of weather year-over-year earnings were actually up $0.05 per share in the first quarter of this year versus the first quarter of 2013.
Slide 6 outlines the variances that drove the change in quarterly ongoing earnings per share.
Lower operations and maintenance expenses added $0.09 per share largely driven by lower employee benefit cost including the favorable impact from pension is expected to benefit each quarter this year.
Higher depreciation and amortization expenses decreased earnings by $0.03 per share primarily due to additional plant and service.
Higher taxes other than income taxes reduced earnings by $0.02 per share due to higher property tax rates.
The net impact of other items including higher interest expense decreased earnings by $0.03 per share.
A decrease in our gross margin reduced earnings by $0.09 per share compared with the prior year's first quarter period.
I'll cover the drivers of our gross margin variance on the next slide.
As a reminder both the gross margin and O&amp;M variances exclude expenses related to the renewable energy standard energy efficiency and similar regulatory programs all of which are essentially offset by comparable revenue amounts under adjustment mechanisms.
Also the deferrals associated with the Four Corners transaction are treated in a similar manner.
The drivers I discussed exclude these deferrals as there was no net impact on the first quarter of 2014 results.
Turing to Slide 7 and the components of the net decrease of $0.09 in our gross margin the main components of this were as follows.
The lost fixed cost recovery mechanism improved earnings by $0.02 per share which as designed offset some of the impact from energy efficiency programs and distributed energy.
Higher usage by APS's customers compared to the first quarter a year ago increased quarterly results by $0.01 per share.
Weather normalized retail kilowatt-hour sales after the effects of energy efficiency programs customer conservation and distributed generation were up 0.6% in the first quarter of 2014 versus 2013.
The net effect of other miscellaneous items increased gross margin by $0.04 per share including the benefit of the two Arizona Sun projects that went to service at the end of 2013.
Lower transmission revenue decreased earnings by $0.03 per share due to a prior period true up recorded in the first quarter of 2013.
We have included a couple of slides in the appendix that outline how the TCA works in a bit more detail.
As I referenced earlier the effects of weather variations decreased earnings by $0.13 per share.
This year's first quarter was milder or less favorable than normal while the first quarter of 2013 was cooler or more favorable than normal.
In the first quarter of this year heating degree days were 51% below normal and 61% lower than the comparable quarter a year ago.
Beginning on Slide 8 is a look at the Arizona economy and our fundamental growth outlook.
Economic growth in Arizona continued its overall improvement in the first quarter of 2014 consistent with the four prior quarters although the growth we're getting modest as has been the case for the last 18 months or so.
Vacant housing in Phoenix Metro has fallen by more than half since its peak in early 2010 and is at its lowest level in six years.
Housing prices have responded.
On the upper left-hand side of Slide 8 you can see that prices on existing home sales are 14% higher than they were a year ago and up 44% from the bottom of the market in mid-2011.
Improved home values are providing more support to new home construction.
Additionally vacancy rates have fallen in all non-residential categories as you can see in the upper right of Slide 8.
The lower left hand side of slide eight shows that permits for new single family homes increased 8% in 2013 over 2012 and more than 75% from the low point in early 2011.
Despite the mild start this year in housing permit activity we expect to see continued permit growth as the Arizona economy continues to improve.
Overall stable activity plus business investment in the region has led to 6% gain in construction jobs in just last year alone which is supporting total non-farm job growth as seen on the lower right hand side of Slide 8.
On balance we see signs of sustained improvement in all economic indicators which paint a picture of continued state of recovery.
As in past recoveries it is likely that each successive year in the near-term will be stronger as we go forward.
Reflecting the steady improvement in the economic conditions APS's customer base grew 1.3% compared with the first quarter last year.
Looking at the next several years we expect annual customer growth to average about 2.5% for 2014 through 2016 with higher growth rates at the end of the period than in near-term for the reasons I just discussed.
This outlook is depicted on Slide 9.
Additionally we expect our annual weather-normalized retail sales in kilowatt hours to increase by about 1% on average from 2014 through 2016 primarily due to improving customer growth being partially offset by our customer programs and conservation.
The headwinds from the overgrown housing market and associated construction job losses are largely behind us and the state is poised to embark on its next phase of sustained growth.
This resurgence in growth is expected over the next few years.
True to form Arizona's population rate is growing at double the national average.
The exact timing and final path of the growth trajectory depends on many factors but the roots of our future growth are well-anchored in fundamentals.
On Slide 10 I have some statistics to support the comments Don made on the growth prospect in the Phoenix metropolitan area.
Recently there have been over 8 000 new jobs announced due to near-term anticipated expansions of current facilities or consolidation of existing operations to Phoenix.
These are from the likes of USAA Luke Air Force Base Mayo Clinic and State Farm Insurance.
With our recent filing and focus on distributed energy we have included some additional data on Slide 11 to help better illustrate the impact of DE.
As Don mentioned the current impact of distributed energy on our gross margin is small.
As you can see in grey on the slide distributed generation is impacting gross margins by approximately 0.5%.
Finally I'll review our financial outlook and earnings guidance.
In terms of our recent financings on May 1 APS purchased the Maricopa County 2009 Series A D and E Pollution Control Bonds totaling $100 million.
We expect to remarket these bonds within the next 12 months.
Overall liquidity remains strong.
At the end of the first quarter the parent company had $10 million of commercial paper outstanding and APS had no short-term debt outstanding.
In March we received a procedural order related to the application and approval of the Four Corners rate rider.
Hearings are scheduled to begin in August with a final decision expected by year-end.
The complete ALJ procedural schedule is included in the appendix to our slides.
Even though the Four Corners rate rider is now expected later than we originally assumed we continue to expect that Pinnacle West consolidated ongoing earnings for 2014 will be in the range of $3.60 to $3.75 per share.
A complete list of factors and assumptions underlying our 2014 guidance is included on Slide 13 which are mostly unchanged.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we'll now take questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Greg Jordan with ISI Group.
Please proceed with your question.
Good.
Two questions as it relates to growth.
So the customer growth was 1.3% in the quarter and that was good.
You're at 0.6% sales growth and I see that that was really led by residential? Yes.
The delta between customer growth and sales growth is quite small on overall basis; it's 70 bps.
You guys have told us to sort of model over time more like 150 basis point spread between customer growth and sales growth due to energy efficiency demand response and DG.
Why was it so tight in the quarter or should we not look at it on a quarterly basis but on an annual basis because you get more energy efficiency -- you get more energy conservation in the summer? Greg I wouldn't look at the first quarter and try to draw any conclusions based on the year.
Remember first quarter we had low sales in total -- abnormally in the weather like we had in the fourth quarter which sometimes skews results.
I would look at it over the course of the year.
Okay.
And my second question is in talking to my housing analyst here at ISI that a slowdown in new housing purchases in the Southwest over the winter it could cause you to have some concern about the longer-term growth trends.
Can you give us some feedback on what you're hearing from developers in your service territory? Greg we're getting pretty positive signals from the developers.
They've had labor shortages and as I've mentioned in our previous calls they have actually built some trade schools to train crafts labor for the construction but if you fly in and out of Phoenix you'll see there is a fair amount of dirt moving subdivision development.
And that's echoed by what the homebuilders are telling us.
Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
So I suppose first question out of the gate on the waiver or potential waiver to delay the rate case where you stand on that? Do you anticipate filing that in the next couple months here? Hey Julien.
This is Jeff Guldner.
We haven't made a determination on how we'll move forward with that at this point.
So we're focused right now on moving into the workshops and having some of the dialog and the value at DG and the technology innovation workshops.
What would be the puts and takes if you will in terms of making your decision to do so or not? You only just need to look at how some of the discussion will evolve.
So obviously we expect that in the value DG workshop there is going to be some discussion around rate design issues.
Excellent.
And I suppose just following up on that in terms of the DG issue here ultimately how do you think about that playing out relative to the rate case and on being a separate track? Is that something that could be moving forward say late this year or early next on a separate timeline or how are you thinking about that for the time being just to get an update? Yes I think we certainly see value in having the discussion around the rate design issues which are broader than just APS.
So that's going to involve other utilities.
And you would have to implement anything like that in a rate case so there is probably several paths forward.
But to the extent to which the DG issues were broader than just you and obviously just your rate design issues it -- would that ultimately be a separate docket just to be clear? I don't know whether it would be separate or not.
Excellent.
And then lastly in terms of the Four Corners development can you quantify a little bit what the delay means in terms of your numbers? Well Four Corners is slightly less than $0.01 amounts delay so somewhere around $0.04 $0.05 for us but we have that incorporated in our guidance.
And our next question comes from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey Jim to be clear if I heard you right as you mentioned the delay in Four Corners I've done the math it's about $0.05.
Are you specifically seeing whether it was the pension cost that you referred to in your opening remarks? Are there specific benefits or offsets that you're seeing that's kind of neutralizing it out there or should we think you're still in the range but there may be some headwind for not having it done on time --coming in on time? Well we've factored into the range of possible outcomes both the delay and Four Corners and we had a pretty good view that pension and OPEB would be down this year over last year.
So we're still -- the range is good and we try to incorporate probability risks sort of each of these factors.
So it hasn't changed my outlook on the guidance.
Okay.
But to be clear there's been no specific offsets that you could point to us to say this came in better than what you may have budgeted originally? No.
I think it's just been steady cost control as you see in the first quarter.
Also on the AZ Sun program where is the commission right now on its thinking on the final 30 megawatts? I know there were some talks that maybe that's not required any more.
If you just give us an update on that and when that is supposed to be resolved.
Well if you remember last year the commission approved another 20 megawatts 10 megawatts for City of Phoenix 10 megawatts for Luke and said when you come back for your 2014-2015 filing we'll see how your penetration of rooftop and load and the need.
We filed for 20 of that 30 and we're waiting the commission approval on it.
So this process will clarify the thinking whether that's needed or not basically? Correct.
And my last question in terms of the longer term growth outlook there I know you added this chart in there showing the small DG component.
Is it still fair to say rate-based growth should still be kind of the key driver in terms of benchmarking EPS growth? Are you still seeing that relationship as is? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Kit Konolige with BGC.
Please proceed with your question.
I just wanted to ask about the decline in O&amp;M year-over-year.
Could you guys go into a little bit what that is; pension OPEB et cetera? A lot of it is pension OPEB and other employee benefit costs.
And certainly if I look at the business' cost controls sometime in the quarter that expenses are incurred but it's just a continuation of our ongoing program including the enterprise process improvement initiative which is looking to streamline processes and document everything that we do.
And how should we think about say year-over-year changes in O&amp;M going forward or is that something that we'd have to look at in the context of the next rate case? Well I would say two things on that Kit.
One is our stated goal is to keep O&amp;M basically flat year-over-year or certainly as we move out in the outer years less than or equal to the growth in kilowatt hour sales.
And I think we're not going to change how we spend and run the business just because we have a rate case.
So we'll continue to be focused on cost be as efficient as possible which ultimately lowers cost to customers which is a good thing.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
I want to go back to Greg's questions a little earlier just kind of about the housing growth outlook and that sort of stuff.
With inventories down at lowest point I guess in more than six years and permits starting to come back how should we think about the rate of permitting and the conversion of permitting to new home construction to help support that 2.5% customer growth rate? What is the lag between permits moving and houses getting built and then what is the quantum of homes that we need to start getting added to the system? Well typically you see anywhere from 12 to 24-month delay in permitting to home construction.
And of course there is anomalies in that and it could be longer but we see and Moody's projects around 25 000 permits this year which is going to relate to the customer growth of about 2% 2.5% over the next three years.
So we'll see permits begin to accelerate once -- as Don alluded to they are getting skilled craft trained and you'll see permits pick up and growth will follow.
So is there enough in queue when you guys look at or talk to the builders the things are getting built to support the 2.5% number this year or is it more like this year is going to be kind of at this 1% and 1.5% level and then we'll think about 2015 and 2016 being 2.5% 3.5% type of numbers? Well 2.5% will be the three-year average and it will be accelerated coming out of the -- in 2016.
So you'll see growth somewhere around 2% or so this year and it will be accelerating through that to average 2.5% so.
And then I guess one of the things we'd heard from our homebuilding analysts is there is talk of more of these homes being built with the option of solar being included with construction.
When you guys talk to the developers what rate of absorption are they seeing and hearing as far as people opting for solar to be built on the house at construction? There's a few developments Dan that kind of specialize in that I guess is the word I'd use the majority do not (inaudible) -- That hasn't? What the percentages of those that are building a home are electing to go solar or not.
Okay.
And Don is there talk or are there conversations about prospectively expanding the renewable mandate in Arizona where you could prospect then eventually expand Arizona Sun and that sort of stuff? At this time I don't believe we've got any substantive discussions going on in that regard.
And I guess one last question from me system performance level.
As the solar stake is increasing are you seeing any more volatility kind of in the daily dispatch profile or the requirements on your peaking ramps as far as when solar is on and off? And how is that changing as Ocotillo the need for new physical generation? We are clearly seeing that.
And that's looking forward we expect more of it.
And that's one of the driving factors behind Ocotillo.
In the next few years Ocotillo is going to be the majority of that expenditure in addition to the generating sources.
It'd be adaptations on the distribution system.
And the Ocotillo timing when you guys model out works with kind of the timing does the solar share takes greater impact? Well Ocotillo should be finished in 2018 and the majority of the spend will be in 2017 and 2018.
But you guys are okay from a system performance level? Oh yes.
Oh yes.
Okay.
And lot of the solar is spread out across the system so that has an impact as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Can you talk through dividend growth? You've got this 4% target over the long-term.
What do you need to see to get more aggressive when it comes to dividend growth than 4%? Well obviously we're targeting average of around 4%.
And we'd have to see clear path to rate-based growth greater than 6% or 7% we're seeing now to give us confidence to sort of move beyond what we're seeing right now.
Our payout ratio continues to be in the low 60 so we haven't a lot of flexibility moving forward.
And then on equity Jim what have you said about when the earliest you would need to issue equity is? Not until 2016.
2016.
At the earliest.
And then finally there has been some increased M&amp;A activity in the Southwest and the industry in general.
Can you just comment in terms of your thoughts on whether you think there's value that can be created from regional consolidation? That's pure speculation Neil.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Chin with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Just going back to the question about how you think about the next rate case I understand from one of your prior answers that much of it depends on how events unfold over the remainder of this year for example the DG workshop.
Can you give a little bit more color on what are some of the factors in the upcoming workshop for example or discussions around DG that might help swing you in one direction or another with regards to do we pursue a more delimited rate setting style rate case or a more full-blown rate case? I mean some of the factors I'm thinking of could be whether the DG cost numbers end up coming out higher or lower out of the workshop whether there is a degree of unanimity among the different regulated utilities in the state whether the relationship and the tone among different stakeholders ends up being a little bit less acrimonious than it has been in the past.
Can you just walk us through some of the factors that you're thinking of that might help you ultimately come to the right decision on the next rate case? Yes Brian this is Jeff.
I think some of the ones that you just outlined are good are right on target with that.
I mean what I think you're going to see certainly is some discussion in the value of DG workshop around what you think about solar valuation the valuation of rooftop solar but I think there is also going to be some discussion around how that pairs up with the value of the grid.
And that's going to be a broader discussion obviously than just APS.
So we'll have other utilities that are in there.
And I think it's going to be difficult to have that kind of discussion without ultimately looking at some of the other aspects around rate design.
And so as that unfolds I think we'll be able to see a little bit more about what that dialog looks like what the other utilities are thinking.
We also like the opportunity here in that from a number of different industry experts from around the country.
That's one of the things that the commission has done I think a nice job in lining up.
Folks are going to provide commentary during those workshops.
So those are just going to start next week.
We'll go in and see how those progress and obviously that will inform some of our decision making.
And then if you could remind us of the timeline of the workshop and then roughly sort of the general timeframe under which we're more likely to see public commentary from you about how you wish to proceed in the next rate case? The workshops the value DG workshops start on May 7.
I think there is another one that's been scheduled in June.
There isn't really a schedule beyond that.
So it may take -- there may be some additional workshops that follow from that.
We also have overlaying that separate but probably interrelated in some ways the innovation and technology workshops; another one of those is coming in late May.
And so as we work through those probably and obviously later in the year where we see kind of how that looks then from a longer term regulatory perspective.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Jim just your equity comment.
Is that no equity until 2016 or through 2016? No equity until at least 2016.
And just as far as the O&amp;M we're $0.09 ahead here.
Your full year outlook is to be flat or up slightly.
I guess the implication is that we're going to see some heavy O&amp;M later in the year? Yes a lot of that's timing especially as it relates to generation overhauls.
And just some O&amp;M sort of delayed into later in the year.
So I wouldn't say it's going to be heavy but pension and OPEB is going to be down in every quarter we know that.
And that's baked into your flat assumption? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Couple of questions.
Just first these workshops are they going to be webcast so that we can listen in? Do you know? Yes.
Yes.
And Don you mentioned in your prepared remarks the April 15 filing you made and kind of highlighted the fact that the adds year-to-date are less than a year ago and was certainly less than Q4 but then you also said don't read too much into that yet.
Could you just maybe give a little color on that commentary and why we shouldn't read too much into that yet? Well if you look back two or three years Steve the volatility from one month of say February of this year versus last year versus the year before that it's a pattern.
If you just look at a few months at a time it doesn't seem to be a lot of rhyme or reason to it.
Okay.
Draw your own conclusions but when I look back over several years of history one could get out on a limb and prove themselves wrong in another few months.
Second question is related to the upcoming ACC elections.
Has there been kind of any people that have clarity on who is going to be running? And I'm curious if the solar issue has started coming up at all from a common election standpoint? To answer to your last one first so far it has not and we're sort of in the not early stages but many of the candidates are still gathering the signatures and the other information data that's required for them to be a candidate in the clean elections process and for the primaries.
Okay.
Just two spots that are up if I recall? That's correct.
And then lastly I think there's this ruling by the Department of Revenue to put a property tax on solar leases.
Has that been finalized and has that occurred and maybe is that having any impact on some of these additions? Well to clarify the issue the statute that requires generating assets that you should not link an entity is not using the generation themselves i.e.
rooftop solar under lease arrangement versus a homeowner that outright owns his generation.
And it's the same law applies to our solar properties has been on the books for years.
These solar lease companies were not paying that tax.
Last year about this time the Arizona Department of Revenue issued a ruling that they were required to pay it.
It's pretty clear when you look at the law.
In the legislature this last session they were they being these solar lease entities running or attempting to run legislation to exempt themselves from that tax; and the tax would be on them not on the homeowner.
And they weren't very successful at it.
And say early or midstream in that process they turned on that APS was trying to raise property taxes on solar customers and just within the last -- the legislature ended their session last week and just recently as of yesterday they were posting on some of their websites an attack on our governor and that her administration I presume by that they mean the department of revenue was applying this tax.
The facts are the tax has been on the books as a statue for years and they weren't paying it.
Now they're being required to comply.
That's sort of where we are at right now if that answers your question.
Yes.
No thanks for clarifying that.
Appreciate it.
Thanks guys.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Rajeev Lalwani with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my questions.
First one was just on the quarterly DG filings.
To the extent there's an acceleration or a deceleration in applications do you expect the commission to change some of those fixed charges that they've implemented? Rajeev this is Jeff.
I don't know.
I think that they're going to monitor them but don't anticipate right now any action certainly in the near-term.
And then just another question on the rate case.
What's the test year that you're going to use? So under the current framework we have we'd be looking at 2014 test year.
And so some of the discussions that have happened earlier is whether that's the test year we'd move forward with or would we move forward potentially with a different test year.
To do that we'd have to have some change in the existing regulatory framework we have.
Okay.
And then just based on the guidance you provided for the year what's the earned ROE from a regulatory standpoint that you're forecasting? Well it's going to be in excess of 9.5% and short of 10%.
Okay.
And so the rate ask or the revenue ask doesn't seem like it's going to be a very big number is kind of the takeaway? We have $1 billion spend.
So it will be what it is when we ultimately get there.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Most of my questions have been answered but just sort of focusing back on Slide 11 and the customer energy efficiency.
I was just wondering how much of that do you guys estimate is because of utility programs things you guys are doing versus just sort of general trends I guess in consumer behavior? Well in that regard Paul it's sort of hard to nail a number.
We can track what CFLs we handout and things of that nature.
And we do think most of the energy efficiency is in lighting for the most part.
What we really don't know is what our customers doing outside of any incentives we give and then how much is just conservation on the part of homeowners in sort of an uncertain world.
We do know that EE is going to continue to be a impact as everything in it that is manufactured today is more efficient than what it replaces including building footprints and so on so.
But that's no data data I can turn to to support how much is ours and how much is customers.
And then just sort of following on Steve's question about the trends in installations one of the things I guess one might think could happen is that due to a change in pricing or what have you with the charge and what have you that there might have been an acceleration of activity in the fourth quarter.
And as time goes on that might get more normal.
In other words you might see sort of a cannibalization of sort of the first quarter stuff or being brought in I guess a little bit earlier into the fourth quarter.
I'm just wondering when we look at the trend throughout the quarter or as much data as you have through April or what have you do you see -- and I know it's volatile and I completely understand what you guys are talking about but do you see a trend in solar installations that are trending upwards as the months go on or is it really just too hard to tell? Paul this is Jeff.
One of the I think the points you made about the change in the policy that occurred at the end of December what we saw was a significantly higher application rate in December of folks trying to get in before that change occurred.
So we know that was driving the numbers to be very high in December.
The challenge to try to be with only four months essentially of data to say what's the long-term trend is you've got among other things that change as well as things like we don't have an upfront cash incentive right now driving folks in early in the application process to get their installations in.
And so we want to make sure we're looking at that trend of data to ensure we see enough of those different variables to get a handle on what the overall long-term trend is.
So I think it's too early right now to really tell.
Question comes from the line of Charles Fishman with Morningstar.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes if I can just ask a couple of more quick questions on Slide 11 and I might be reading more into this or trying to get more out of this chart than I should but if I look at the distributed energy portion of those three bars it looks like it's getting smaller.
And yet I realize you said it's a little early to make any conclusions from this monthly charge.
Am I reading too much into that? Well I think the offsetting factor there is you get increasing sales before EE and DE continuing to rise and we see DE continuing to rise but it's a smaller percentage of the overall total.
And so on the box on the right you have last year let's say little over 28 000 gigawatt hours of total retail sales and what you're saying is the 60 gigawatt hours are -- is that just for one year or is that cumulative? Just one year.
That's one year.
Okay that's what I thought.
Okay.
That was it.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Andy Levi with Avon Capital Advisors.
Please proceed with your question.
This wasn't actually going to be my initial question but just back on what Paul Patterson was asking.
I would think it's more of the cash incentives that's having the difference first of the $5 a month fixed charge is that kind of fair would you agree? In terms of the applications coming down? Yes.
I mean I can't imagine $5 making a big difference? That's probably I mean I think that's our assessment is that there is a change in just the logistics of how you go through the process that's likely making it difficult to look at year-over-year comparisons when in the year before you had upfront cash incentives that folks were trying to get.
Right.
Yes because $5 I can't see affecting consumers' decisions.
Okay.
So then kind of back to what Brian Chin was talking about.
So just to understand the process for the rest of the year we're going to have these workshops where the various stakeholders will discuss their views obviously net metering being the issue in getting that $5 charge increased to a more reasonable level.
And then once the workshops are done you really get in and just tell me if I'm right or wrong on this you really get into the point of not only whether you file for a rate increase or not a rate increase which you probably won't do but really whether the commission is going to move ahead in trying to deal with the net metering issue and raising that amount before the end of the year.
Is that correct? I think the workshops are broader than that.
So when you look at just on the value of distributed generation workshop the $5 charge was something that was adopted in our proceeding that ended last year.
This is I think going to be a broad discussion of just how do you look at distributed generation in general and bring in again other utilities.
And so it's a little difficult to predict at this point how that's going to unfold but again what we're looking forward to is having experts around the country coming in and sharing their perspectives not just on the value we think not just on the value of distributed generation but also on how you look at the value of the grid and the services that we're providing.
And so since those haven't even started yet it's a little hard to tell how that's going to evolve but obviously that's what we're looking for to next.
And is this scenario possible that net metering charge gets altered as a result of these workshops? I don't think it's as a result of these -- I don't mean a direct result wherein you go from workshop to a change in net metering charge but where the workshops lead to a commission docket that ultimately would lead to that? Well Andy I don't think we have any expectations.
We said here today that that workshop is going to alter that charge.
And remember that charge has offset the CLFTR.
So it would not have an impact on EPS.
I know I understand that.
But I guess the kind of the way I kind of viewed your stock performance recently it seems that most of the underperformance has to do with solar penetration/net metering and that can continue on.
And you look at the state of California they're probably going to come up with a net metering charge in the $20 range $25 range.
And I think if there was a more fair charge or more balanced charge between solely users and utility that may make a difference in people's perception of your long-term prospects.
So that's kind of what I'm getting at.
And I guess from I don't know talking to some people down in Arizona who maybe are in the position to make decisions it seems that there's at least with some a desire to get a more equitable balance between solar and the company or the utilities I should say.
So that was kind of the line of questioning where I would see if we could get something done this year but I understand these need to get through the workshops and all that first.
Yes.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the end of the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Mountain for closing comments.
Thanks Christine.
That concludes our call.
Thanks everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Paul Mountain Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Thank you Christine.
I'd like to thank everyone for participating in this conference call and webcast to review our second quarter 2014 earnings recent developments and operating performance.
Our speakers today will be our Chairman and CEO Don Brandt; and our CFO Jim Hatfield; Jeff Guldner our APS’s Senior Vice President of Public Policy and Mark Schiavoni APS’s Chief Operating Officer are also here with us.
First I need to cover a few details with you.
The slides that we will be using are available on our Investor Relations website along with our earnings release and related information.
Note that the slides contain reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Today's comments in our slides contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations.
And the company assumes no obligation to update these statements.
Because actual results may differ materially from expectations we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements.
Our second quarter Form 10-Q was filed this morning.
Please refer to that document for forward-looking statements cautionary language as well as the risk factors in MD&amp;A sections which identify risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in our disclosures.
A replay of this call will be available shortly on our website for the next 30 days.
It will also be available by telephone through August 7th.
I will now turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Paul and thank you all for joining us today.
As Paul mentioned along with Jim and Jeff Guldner we have Mark Schiavoni with us here today.
Mark was promoted to Chief Operating Officer last month.
Mark overseas our non-nuclear operations while also helping us set the company’s strategy.
He co-chairs our sustainable cost management initiative with Jim and is one of our most local champions on safety issues.
Last quarter I shared my view that Arizona's regulatory climate is stronger today because APS and the Arizona Corporation Commission were among the first to address the fairness issues associated with distributed generation.
And did so along before these rate design challenges became a significant financial issue for our customers.
I'll update you on the regulatory progress as well as a few operational highlights.
And then Jim will discuss the second quarter results and update you on our economic and financial outlook.
The Arizona Corporation Commission has conducted two workshops in the value and cost of distributed generation series.
The most recent on June 20th.
On that date APS along with Tucson Electric the residential utility consumer office or RUCO and two Arizona solarcrete associations Arizona Solar Deployment Alliance and the Arizona Solar Energy Industries Association filed a joint letter in the docket outlining three broad principals rate design to which all diverse signatories agree.
These three principals are that rates need to be customer focused forward thinking and affordable and fair.
The workshops was constructive in the end all parties agree that the voting time to address rate design was necessary.
Following the work shop at the ACCs July 22nd staff meeting the ACC voted four to one for a limited reopening of the 2013 net mitering decision to consider removing the requirement for APS to file a rate case in 2015 to allow for the possibility of developing rate design options in generic proceedings.
The commissioners agreed that Chairman Stump would file a letter in the docket explaining the need for a rate design generic proceeding and providing notice that the commission would vote on whether to eliminate the requirement for APS to file a rate case in June 2015 at an August open meeting.
Commissioner Brenda Burns was the sole of the center only because she thought it best to open the matter and vote on the proposed change to the requirement at one time.
The exact process is currently undetermined but we expect rate design discussions to continue into 2015.
Rate design changes agreed upon would likely not take effect until the conclusion of APS’s next rate case.
We applaud the commission for beginning to take action to deal with rate design showing that Arizona is a leader in dealing with these complex issues while providing clarity to stakeholders on the next steps.
We look forward to building on the principles outlined in the joint letter and having a constructive dialog with all parties.
The ACC is taking a forward-looking approach in other areas as well.
The innovative technology’s workshop series also continues through the summer.
The topics covered inform the rate design discussions and educate all stakeholders on new ways to address customer interest.
APS is actively participating in these workshops.
Planning what’s next for Arizona’s energy future is our top priority.
We know our customers want more options for receiving energy to power their lives including rooftop solar.
The total number of residential grid type solar photovoltaic systems on our system is now about 26 800.
There were about 2 000 applications in the second quarter in line with last year although we continue to see increasing number of applicants each month this year.
Earlier this week APS presented the ACC with an additional option to complete the final 20 megawatts of AZ Sun program.
In April we proposed to continue our successful program of building community scale solar with a new plant at our Redhawk facility.
On July we presented the Commission with the second option that would be an APS owned residential rooftop solar program in partnership with local Arizona solar installers.
20 megawatts is equivalent of about 3 000 home installations.
This proposal would provide a new avenue for customers who may not want to or be able to purchase or lease solar panels from third-parties so that they too can benefit from rooftop solar installations.
We've asked the ACC to review the proposal within two months in order to maintain compliance by the end of 2015.
AZ Sun added 32 megawatts to our operations when the Gila Bend site came on line in June as expected.
The 10 megawatt sites in the City of Phoenix and at Luke Air Force Base are making progress and are expected to come on line in 2015.
Closely related to our planning for the future of the grid is our monetization plan for Ocotillo Generating Station which will be an important component in managing intermittent generation which includes renewable and distributed generation.
This certificate of environmental comparability application will be filed with the ACC this week and hearings are expected this fall.
Turning to the rest of our operations.
The Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station had another great quarter.
Unit 2s plant refueling outage in April was completed in a record time for the site 28 days and 22 hours.
The site capacity factor was in line with the second quarter of last year as each quarter included one plant outage.
In May the nuclear industry held a grand opening on Phoenix’s West side for the first of two nuclear response centers and the second facility open this month in Memphis Tennessee.
These reserve facilities are part of the industry’s response to the 2011 Fukushima Daiichi incident in Japan and provides standardized equipment that can be shipped to any nuclear site in the United States in 24 hours or less.
Arizona was selected as one of the sites because of the low probably of natural disasters here.
On June 2nd the EPA released the clean power plant which proposes state to specific goals to achieve reductions in carbon dioxide emissions measured from a 2012 baseline.
As proposed states would be required to submit their plants to EPA by June 2016 although states may be eligible for one or two year extensions.
For sources on Native American tribal lands including four corners in the Navajo plant.
EPA is expected to finalize a plan by June 2015.
We're working with regulators and other utilities to determine what the EPA plan means for his owner.
We have already made significant progress in reducing greenhouse gas submissions including permanently showing down through three units at four corners.
EPA also issued its final cooling water intake structures rule in May under section 316 B of the Clean Water Act.
We have not determined the exact cost to comply however we don’t expect the cost to be material.
Those of you who have followed Pinnacle West in recent years know the emphasis this management team has placed on running our core electricity business well by sticking our netting we've achieved strong operational and financial results.
Looking forward we see an opportunity to leverage our operational expertise and pursue growth through carefully selected opportunities that are closely to our core business.
And an example that kind of close to core opportunity that we intend to explore the California ISO Board of Governors recently voted to move forward with the Delaney to Colorado river transmission line.
The hot 500 kilovolt line would be approximately 130 miles long 90% of which would be located in Arizona.
To enable our exploration for this opportunity we formed a new subsidiary of Pinnacle West called Bright Canian Energy Corporation.
Bright Canian in turn has formed a 50-50 joint venture to pursue transmission projects in the Western United States with the Berkshire Hathawa subsidiary mid American transmission.
This joint venture plan is to participate in the bidding for the DCR line.
The competitive solicitation process is expected to begin in August and culminate in 2015.
It is expected that the DCR line will take three years to permit and two years to construct.
So at this point we expect the line would be in service by 2020.
Given the competitive process and this timeframe we do not currently reflect any CapEx in our forecast for this line.
Jim will discuss the latest economic data in his remarks but let me provide some context.
We have spent significant time with homebuilders in our area in recent weeks to calibrate our outlook.
And understand what they see and expect to see in the Phoenix housing market.
All they agree that the very near-term trends are difficult to predict from quarter-to-quarter they also agree that Phoenix is a great place to live and roll our business and the fundamentals for growth remain solidly intact looking ahead into 2015 and 2016.
Let me conclude my remarks by thanking the crews and volunteers who help limit the damage caused by the nearly 22 000 acre slide rock fire in late May of this year.
Slide rock is in the canyon directly adjacent to Sedona Arizona very popular destination North of Phoenix and recognizable by its fantastic red rock formations.
The train in this area is extremely difficult to navigate and required our crews to fly in polls and other equipment necessary to restore service to area customers.
Because of the difficulty in reaching this location much of this work was done the all fashion way by hiking in on foot and using hand tools to dig holes to replace pools damaged by the fire.
Just as important our crews performed this challenging work safely and without any recordable injuries.
This is also one example of what helped APS to be recognized as industry leading in customer satisfaction.
To that point APS maintained top docile performance among large investor owned utilities and overall customer satisfaction ranking 5th in that category as measured by the JD Power and Associates Residential Customer Survey that was released earlier this month.
I will now turn the call over to Jim.
Thank you Don and welcome everybody to the second quarter call.
The topics I will discuss today are outlined on slide four.
I will begin with a review of our second quarter results including earnings and the primary variances from last year’s second quarter.
I will follow with an update on the Arizona economy and I will conclude with a review of our financial outlook.
Slide five summarizes our GAAP net income and ongoing earnings which are the same this quarter.
As usual my comments will refer to ongoing earnings.
For the second quarter of 2014 we reported consolidated ongoing earnings of $132 million or $1.19 per share compared with ongoing earnings of $131 million or $1.18 per share for the first quarter of 2013.
Slide six outlines the variances that drove the change in quarterly ongoing earnings per share.
Lower operations and maintenance expenses added $0.03 per share largely driven by lower employee benefit cost including the favorable impact from lower pension and post retirement expense that is expected to positively impact each quarter this year.
Lower interest expense net of AFUDC added $0.02 per share.
Lower income tax expense added $0.02 per share primarily driven by tax credits related to our renewable facilities and a slightly lower statutory state tax rate.
The net impact of other items increased earnings by $0.02 per share.
A decrease in our gross margin reduced earnings by $0.06 per share compared with the prior year's second quarter period.
I'll cover the drivers of our gross margin variance on the next slide.
Higher depreciation and amortization expenses decreased earnings by $0.01 per share primarily due to additional plant and service.
Higher taxes other than income taxes also reduced earnings by $0.01 per share.
As a reminder both the gross margin and O&amp;M variances exclude expenses related to the renewable energy standard energy efficiency and similar regulatory programs all of which are essentially offset by comparable revenue amounts under adjustment mechanisms.
Also the deferrals associated with the Four Corners transaction are treated in a similar manner.
The drivers I discussed exclude these deferrals as there was no net impact on second quarter 2014 results.
Turing to slide seven and the components of our net decrease of $0.06 in our gross margin the main components of this were as follows.
The lost fixed cost recovery mechanism improved earnings by $0.02 per share which as designed offset some of the impact from energy efficiency programs and distributed energy.
The Arizona Sun was a primary driver of the other $0.01 per share.
The effects of weather variation decreased earnings by $0.03 per share.
This year's second quarter was more favorable than normal although milder than the second quarter of 2013.
Cooling degree days were 10% about normal but 9% lower than the comparable quarter a year ago.
On this topic APS had a peak load for the year of 7 020 megawatts on July 23rd during a weeklong heat wave and also surpassed last [peak] week.
Lower usage by APS customers compared with the second quarter a year ago decreased quarterly results by $0.04 per share.
Weather-normalized retail kilowatt hour sales after the effects of energy efficiency programs customer conservation and distributed generation were down 2% in the second quarter of 2014 versus 2013.
Lower transmission revenue decreased earnings by $0.02 per share due to the annual update in May related to the formula rate filing and the updated estimate for the current year.
We continue to expect transmission revenue to be relatively flat on a full year basis compared to 2013.
Beginning on slide eight as I look at the Arizona economy and our fundamental growth outlook.
Economic growth in Arizona [Yervoy] continued its overall improvement in the second quarter 2014 consistent with the prior four quarters although growth remains modest.
Vacant housing in Metro Phoenix has fallen by more than half since its peak in early 2010 and it’s at a slowest level in almost six years.
Housing prices have responded.
On the upper left hand side you can see that prices on the existing home sales are 10% higher than they were a year ago and up 45% from the bottom of the market in mid 2011.
As for commercial buildings vacant space continues to be observed and the office and retail sectors yielding steadily declining vacancy rates.
As shown on the upper right vacancy rates for industrial space reflected some sizeable new developments which just recently come on line.
Both trends are indicative of the steady job growth the Metro Phoenix area and Arizona have been experiencing for the last three years.
Arizona has added jobs year-over-year at around a very steady 2% since the end of 2011 as seen on the lower right hand side.
Business services tourism healthcare wholesale trade manufacturing and financial services have all been sources of growth in recent quarters.
And highlight the sources for continued occupancy gains in the available commercial floor stock.
The lower left hand side shows that permits for new single family homes increased 8% in 2013 over 2012 and more than 75% from the low point in 2011.
While single family had permit activity this year has been softer than we initially expected multifamily permit activity has been robust and it's contributing to an overall increase in hosing investments.
As apartment rates and existing home prices continue to rise we expect activity levels in both sectors to continue to expand.
As Don mentioned we are engaged with Oklahoma builders in recent weeks to validate our view of fundamental growth prospects for Phoenix and Arizona.
Slide nine displays selected public statements by four different home building executives giving support to the idea that Phoenix remains very desirable city in which to work and raise a family.
The sentiments expressed here are very much in line with our own.
In our conversations with the home builders they have not wavered from these opinions.
They do acknowledge that the market today is less robust than they and frankly than we expected but they're collectively quite confident that impediments faced in the housing market today are largely related to the hangover from the extreme business cycle we just went through.
In particular the spread between new home and existing home prices while much narrower than several years ago remains too high and buy our confidence is rising only slowly.
These factors along with other market dynamics have led to build subdued builder confidence at the moment.
And although this situation may slow the momentum for sing family home construction in near-term it has created an opportunity for multi-family market to expand and at best rate and secure as I mentioned earlier.
On balance we see signs of sustained improvement in our economic environment and gradually steady recovery.
As in past recovery it is likely that each successive year in the near-term will be stronger as we go forward.
Key in this pattern is a steady absorption of vacant housing which provides additional price support to existing homes and by extension the new home market.
Reflecting the steady improvement in economic conditions APS's customer base grew 1.4% compared with the second quarter last year.
We expect that this growth rate will gradually accelerate in response of the economic growth trends I just discussed.
It is easy to draw conclusions on long-term growth each quarter.
However we are planning and running our business for the long-term.
Nothing we see changes our view as the long-term fundamental supporting each of population job growth in Arizona appear to be firmly in place.
Finally I will review our recent financing and the financial outlook referring to slide 10 in terms of our recent financing.
On June 18th APS as issued 250 million a new 10 year 3.35% senior unsecured notes.
The proceeds from the sale were used along with other funds to refinance the 300 million 5.8% maturity on June 30th.
We expect to need other 350 million of additional long-term debt later this year.
During the second quarter APS's temporarily purchased five series of Pollution Control revenue bonds totaling 166 million on their mandatory tender dates and we expect to remarket our refinance the bonds within the next 12 months.
APS also remarketed two other series of Pollution Control Bonds totaling 49 million during the quarter.
Overall liquidity remains very strong at the end of the second quarter we had total available liquidity of over $1 billion with a total of 177 million of commercial paper outstanding principally at APS.
On May 9th we refinanced the Pinnacle West 200 million and the APS 500 million revolving credit facilities that would have mature in November 16th.
These new facilities mature in 2019.
As we head into the important third quarter we continue to expect that Pinnacle West consolidated ongoing earnings for 2014 will be in the range of $3.60 to $3.75 per share.
A completeness of factor in assumptions underlying our 2014 guidance is included on slide 11.
I will conclude with a brief on the Four Corners rate rider proceedings Testimony recently concluded and hearings will begin next week the consensus for most interveners is that the transaction is a good investment for APS and its customers the focus of testimony and the hearing center on the determination of fair value rate of return.
APS believes that its interpretation is the most consistent with prior orders as served in our testimony.
And this concludes our prepared remarks operator we will now take questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Dan.
On the housing outlook you said it was maybe a little bit slower right now than you had anticipated but more optimism out of the home builders.
Can you just maybe convert how we should think about that optimism really being real versus home builders being optimistic because by nature they tend to be.
Sure.
I had this some of Jim's team do a little research and I personally called a few the CEO as I know got a perspective and I've got of several pages of note.
So I'm can't read them all but let me hit couple of high points so it's virtually all were bullish on the Phoenix area as you say those price there their job to be bullish but some of the observations.
One they still see the labor markets being constrained.
And that's a negative but it's sort of a temporary to 6 month to 15 month phenomena most of them cited 12 consecutive quarters of job increases and lower unemployment rates personal income growth a high jobs to permit in building permit ratio and favorable long-term outlook with respectable population and job growth.
Statistic that surprised me but actually when we dug into it it was validated by what we are seeing with their contacts to our folks that they reach out those 12 to 18 months before they actually break ground to get the electric set up.
But over the last 12 months the number of builder communities in the area and they range in different size but in absolute number they have increased from 300 to 400.
So we have seen a 33% increase in the number of communities.
Also one specifically I heard this reaction from several is they are not going to give these homes away they see these ball ways of demand coming.
And the one pointed to me that his to be that his average sale price increased 35% in the last 12 months such as some of the commentary we saw.
Also is the there is tremendous increase in multi-family construction and builder see that as where potential buyers are staging themselves now and they still talk about the amount of traffic at their display homes up substantially but the sales are not tracking the demand there and they attribute much of that to consumer confidence and concerns over job security.
So hope that helps Dan.
Yes thank you for that.
And I guess if I look at slide 17 we should the PV applications to residential levels and those numbers are relatively consistent year-on-year a lot of additional upside.
Can you just talk about where are you seeing those permits play so you’ve seen changes in demographics are you seeing more of a bias between existing homes and new homes or any kind of trends we can draw from that data? No real changes in the demographics that we’ve seen ‘14 compared to ‘13.
Okay.
So it looks the same.
And then I guess the last question just because maybe I didn’t pay my attention to it 111D as it relates to four corners and kind of the different treatment for the tribal lands.
What are the considerations the EPA is taking up relative to kind of a full national perspective and how do you see that prospectively effecting this investment? Hey this is Mark Schiavoni.
Quite frankly we don’t see any difference as the way they’re going to treat it.
But we quite frankly don’t know much more of what they’re going to do with tribal lands we’ll know this fall and that’s when we expect to get the feedback for what will take place on tribal lands.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Jim I want to believe that your longer term growth expectations are ultimately going to come to fruition and that there are just sort of trailing behind because of the slow start to recovery.
But your year-to-date sales are tracking 200 basis point behind customer growth not the 150 that you articulated you see it's been a long term average.
Am I just focusing in on two small of a data set and should we be waiting for a longer term trend look through the third quarter or the fourth quarter before we see how things play out?  Yes.
That's said in my remarks Greg.
I think it's easy to look at a quarter and extrapolate something.
Last year if I look at three to six trends we were up.
And so there is a lot of volatility on these numbers today and I would third quarter is always big for us and the fourth quarter in terms of momentum into '15.
So I am playing I am not worried about our long-term growth trend as I said we believe in the fundamentals in Arizona and Phoenix.
And if you look at the what is driving the delta between customer growth and sales growth so still the impact of DG is still probably the smallest piece of that?  Yes.
We are seeing a little usage per customer and that really relates to the consumer confidence in EE DGs continue to be about 0.5% to 1% with really the EE and consumer confidence which is driven by job security or other things going underly being a bigger part of that.
How's July been in terms of underlying demand trends? It’s being good.
Whether it's going to come in pretty much close to normal and we've seen usage demand pretty much according to expectations.
Okay.
Don you made a pretty innovative filing with the commission to ask to participate in rooftop solar market in a pretty significant way.
It would be 10% of the installs if you were approved on a prospective basis.
And that would be in rate base.
What makes you think that the thought process of the ACC's evolved to a point where they think that the utility should be one of the service providers for rooftop solar because historically that has not been the case? Well it hasn't.
we did the couple of years ago of pilot project that the commissions proved up in flags that community power project.
And we have learned a lot from that experience.
And in this case when we're doing rooftop solar first there is no cost ship from let's say lower creditworthy the customers the higher creditworthy customers as there is under the current I will call it the lease structure that some solar companies are using because credit score is not an issue it's basically structurally sound roof and customers is good to go.
There is no upfront investment.
We handle the maintenance.
We will use reputable Arizona based installer.
So it's jobs in Arizona and the customers are guaranteed $30 a month bill credit for 20 years from a company that’s been around for 127 years and has AA credit rating and most of the others can’t claim that.
Okay One final question.
Jim as you look at the financial model for the company and you look at the aspiration to earn at least 9.5% on ROE on the capital investment.
With the capital investment growing if we’re looking at least a short period where sales growth is stagnant do you have a revenue model through the rate adjusters that you currently receive and your ability to control cost? Still allows you to hit your earnings targets in…  Yes Greg I think it’s important remember while we are in a base rate stay out we have mechanism Four Corners in ‘15 we have AZ Sun we have the TCA LFCR.
So the top line is not stagnant from that perspective.
Greg this is Don.
We are very confident we’ll make our numbers.
Thank you guys.
Have a good afternoon.
Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Hey Julien.
So first just picking up on Greg’s last question if you don't mind.
On the solar rooftop program if you will how do you ensure that you'll be competitive or how do you just think about competitiveness versus the broader marketplace if you can elaborate a little bit.
Well because our program will apply to the broad market whereas the current programs are effectively discriminating against low income customers.
To quality for credit score to qualify for lease arrangement or to purchase the solars come up alright and purchase it basically skews that market to the higher end customers where there is no credit score requirement just a structurally sound roof.
So it's across the whole system and there is no subsidization from one credit category of customer to another.
Julien this is Jeff Guldner.
Just one thing to keep in mind to this isn’t another option.
So it doesn't displace the current folks that are out there this is simply saying that we extend the program that's modeled like our Arizona Sun program or on utility ownership to a broader set of customers than probably could get it today.
Got you.
So could you extend a little bit about where and how big this program could get? I mean I know it's a little early but obviously this is the growth subject.
So it's Paul right now.
This is a compliance program; we've got a compliance requirement in our Arizona Sun settlement commitment for 20 megawatts of generation.
If you convert that 20 megawatts it's either 20 megawatt utility scale project or it's 3 000 smaller solar rooftops.
So that's how we are thinking about this program.
Got you.
All right.
Excellent.
And then moving on you talked here about creating a new transco 50/50 but it was also in the context of a broader Western exploration from what I could tell right? That's correct.
In that vein what other opportunities are you exploring outside of what you specifically called out? Well we're looking with our partner on several opportunities in the West none are as far as long as DCR which is front center right now.
Got you.
And then could you just elaborate a little bit more on the weather norm sales growth trends? How much of what we saw in the quarter is energy efficiency versus as you said consumer confidence what have you? Well energy efficiency the consumer confidence roughly $0.06 per share offset by customer growth of $0.04 and then slightly lower usage about $0.03 so all together about $0.06.
Okay all right.
Well thank you very much.
Thanks Julien.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Jim can you remind us in your forecast for weather normalized sales what the assumptions are? If I recall for ‘14 you’d assumed about 0.5% and going forward about 1% a year is that right? 0.5% this year looking through ‘16 on average 1%.
Okay.
And then how sensitive are your plans for the next rate case filing around where these sales numbers do come out? And if we don’t hit those targets and let’s say we’re flat to even down how much capacity you have in terms of staying away from the rate case filing? Well we’re confident even stressing sales under the model that we will hit above 9.5% in this out.
Okay.
But just to give us some cushion around that would that be even a negative sales scenario or flattish sales scenario? If you look the last -- I really think since ‘08 we’ve had negative sales every year including since the stay-out went to effect and we have a waiver from our commitment.
Okay.
And then separately on the filing for the solar roof top option does that sort of signal to us that you guys sort of the feedback you were getting from the commission would suggest that they will perhaps not supportive of the scale not a model.
And so just this kind of gets down another option to look at or do you think you will scale 20 megawatt Redhawk is still a viable option in front of the commission.
This is Jeff this is simplified as an option so what the commission will do they are considering the application that we've made or considered both the 20 megawatt utility scale 1 and that's distributed alternative as an option.
And Ali I'll add it wasn't an issue feedback from the commission it was listing to our customers.
And there is a significant segment of our customers manufacture the majority that we're locked out of the solar route market because either lack of credit standing or a lack of upward cash to investment.
Okay.
And last question as you look at your sales comparisons going forward you want to run into some easier comparisons you had negative numbers you brought in the third and fourth quarter last year weather normalize can you just remind us what were factors there that perhaps still get repeated this year as we look at the second half numbers for our sales growth?  Ali there are several trends go into that for example last year we had a very cold first quarter so customers got high bills.
We had a very warm second quarter so they got a high builds.
And that leads to lower levels of usage and we think a lot of the last '13 was really the impact a very strong first half of the year as a relates to sales and the impact of weather.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys.
I'm just trying to think a little bit longer term about kind of where rate base is going.
You obviously give your CapEx forecast in the appendices but also things that could provide upside to that level.
Could you just kind of summarize and it may be kind of a short list what are things that could provide incremental upside to rate base or even capital spending levels that aren't necessarily in your current CapEx forecast through about 2018 or so? Well the upside would be certainly outside of rate based transformation which currently as in.
Our forecast $0.80 not in our forecast at this point because it's just a proposal.
I think reflecting customer growth in the base infrastructure and PND.
So that sort of the two things I can play with some visibility.
Got it.
Is Ocotillo currently in the forecast? I know it's not due online until '17 '18 time frame.
The bill was started in '16 and '17 for the most part saying with the SCR is four quarter is really '16 '17 CapEx period.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
Much appreciated.
Our next question comes from the line of Kit Konolige with BGC.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Hey Kit.
Just had a question about the political situation I believe there is a primary on I think it’s August 26.
Can you give us a sense of how that team of Parker and Mason is doing in the Republican primary?  Well the voting doesn’t start until I guess the end of this week the early voting and you are right the election the primary is August 26th.
Do you guys have any I don’t know if there is any polling on an ACC race or do you guys have any sense of who's ahead? Maybe you can also give us a little background on how much of an issue DG has become in that race or solar in particular?  There is good poling of the both and Kit I would suggest to each of the candidates their websites are kind of give you the inclination of their issues.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thanks a lot Don.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Fishman with Morningstar.
Please proceed with your question.
Does the DCR transmission line project has FERC set the allowed ROE on that or is that also part of the competitive bid process?  It’s part of the competitive bid process like Don said in his remarks for selective we won’t know until early ‘15 and it’s 20-20 in services state so we have a lot ahead of us before we even count on DCR at this point.
Got it.
That’s the only question I had thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Your O&amp;M is tracking very well year-over-year which we look for the back half of the year to show? Well we do know that from an overall perspective we have more fall outages than we have in prior year.
So that's probably going to put a little stress on O&amp;M.
But overall I would say that the things Mark and I and the rest of the leadership team are doing around the sustainable cost is providing dividends now and as we are implementing enterprise price process improvement we think we'll keep that going for at least a couple of years.
At some point we're going to get into wage inflation and that's just the way it's going to be.
But right now we're still working at fairly flat O&amp;M.
Do you have any favor on the 790 to 810 range? We will look at that as we get into the third quarter and we plan our outages and we see how the summer goes remember we have storms and we stretch an equipment in the third quarter's key in terms of what will be so we'll update that in the third quarter.
And what's the status of the discussion around the tax position of leased solar? Well the position now by the Department of Revenue is they are subject to property tax.
They will begin they have been sending out assessments to be paid in 2015.
Nothing's changed on ruling at this point from the Department of Revenue.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim von Riesemann with CRT Capital Group.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey Don.
Hey Jim.
How are you? Hey how are you? Hey Jim how are you? Good.
I want to just touch based on the solar topic a little bit.
Is there anything unique in your proposal that’s different than say what the competitors are doing right now? I know one of the big hang ups is the lean that gets attached by the competitors; are you going to do something where you’re observing that cost or somebody tries to sell their house -- there is no $30 000 lean or so attached to the home? You’re correct.
There is no lean on the home; basically we’re renting for 20 years the roof space.
And the customers are eligible to cancel it any point in time.
So when they sell the home if the new home owner doesn’t want to solar on his roof top his or her roof top for whatever reason we will remove it and put the roof back in the shape it was before the equipment was up there.
So that sounds like the unique proposition that could actually improve the penetration rates pretty high and maybe… Very customer friendly.
And then they get a credit worth counterparty and somebody who is not going to who will actually answer the phone calls right? Exactly.
Okay.
I got it.
Stand behind it.
Second thing is I know we’ve talked a lot about the housing market and some of the disconnects there.
But can you talk a little bit about what’s going on and call it wager income growth in Arizona I mean is that flat or is that kind of rising? No in terms of wages we see wages grow 3.1% year-over-year so we’re having strong wage growth.
Personal incomes are up almost 3%.
So it’s really a lot around a couple things that Don mentioned I mean certainly credit is tighter today you need to bigger down payment.
And just confidence in the economy is still not where it was I don't think and I think all these things are impacting.
Okay.
I forgot to ask the second part of my question on the solar thing so I apologize for jumping around but with the solar proposal that you are doing is that going to go into rate base or that going to go outside of the utility?  If it's approved by the commission it would be a rate based item.
Okay.
And what would be your initial investment out of all this?  We think it's 60 million to 65 million roughly to a lot of that would depend on the size of the installations and number and so on so forth.
Great sounds good.
That's all I need guys.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Rajeev Lalwani with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
I wanted to come back to just the confidence in hitting some of your targets and numbers coming forward.
Can you talk more about the specific leverage you have in O&amp;M CapEx equity that will help you get the numbers.
And then second relating to that to the extent that you can't hit your numbers for whatever reason couldn’t you just go ahead and file a rate case? And obviously this is all assuming that the commission approves your request.
Well so levers we have we don't plan on achieving equity till 2016 at the earliest.
You saw the numbers flat O&amp;M with benefits down.
That continues to be lever I would say overall cost control is a focus of this company and we’re more managing cost well.
And we have the mechanism that I talked about.
So we've said we do want to file in ‘15 so we'll see how that goes we have large CapEx going in ‘16 ‘17 and ‘18.
So moving the right case back certainly lines up better with our CapEx spend.
So we're highly confident we're going to hit our numbers during this period.
Okay.
And then are you envisioning or does your request for the commission to have some sort of stay out period or would they just potentially remove the requirement to file a rate case and you can come in at any time? Remember under the settlement we could not file until May 31 2015.
The net meter in May order that sort of coming on that date if they remove that it's open in after May 31st we could follow last half of '15 '16 '17.
There is no requirement at that point.
Great.
That was it.
Thank you sir.
Our next question is a follow-up question from Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey one more time here.
I just wanted to get some clarity if you wouldn't mind about when you would expect to see new solar tariffs in place coming out of both these workshops and revisiting the broader subject of solar tariffs? And then secondly just to be very clear about it when would you expect to file another rate case given your commitment to continue earnings your ROE irrespective? So on the first side if you not ask or do we expect any change in the $5 tariff at this point.
And remember that tariff those to offset the LFCR.
So there is no income impact ATS.
Second of all we wouldn't follow-up to at least 2016 at the earliest and that would be dependent upon earnings and allowed ROEs around the country and some of the other things.
And just to be clear in theory when would that $5 tariff at least be revisited just procedurally speaking.
That would be if you do a rate design change or a change like that that would happen in the next rate case.
Got you.
In some sense you would be revisiting that here in the near term subsequently implementing whatever changes came out of that at the conclusion of a rate case in 2016?  Yes conceptually that the commission right now is talking about going some generic rate design discussions that would benefit from having our rate case come after those discussion have occurred which is part of the desire to move that out to 2016.
Once you get through those discussions then you could begin to implement those in that subsequent rate case.
And there would be no requirement even in 2016 for you to file right? That's just your that would be subject to your decision.
The proposal right now is they are talking about is to lift the requirement that we file in 2015 it was in the net mitering decision if you look that back you would go back to the underlying settlement which had a no earlier than requirement.
Right great.
Thank you.
We have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
That concludes our call.
Thanks everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2014 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Paul Mountain Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Thank you Christine.
I would like to thank everyone for participating in this conference call and webcast to review our third quarter 2014 earnings recent developments and operating performance.
Our speakers today will be our Chairman and CEO Don Brandt; and our CFO Jim Hatfield.
Jeff Guldner APS's Senior Vice President of Public Policy; and Mark Schiavoni APS's Chief Operating Officer are also here with us.
First I need to cover a few details with you.
The slides that we will be using are available on our Investor Relations website along with our earnings release and related information.
Note that the slides contain reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Today's comments in our slides contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and the company assumes no obligation to update these statements.
Because actual results may differ materially from expectations we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements.
Our third quarter Form 10-Q was filed this morning.
Please refer to that document for forward-looking statements cautionary language as well as the risk factors and MD&amp;A sections which identify risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in our disclosures.
A replay of this call will be available shortly on our website for the next 30 days.
It will also be available by telephone through November 7.
I will now turn the call over to Don.
Thank you Paul and thank you all for joining us today.
The management team and our entire workforce continued to deliver solid operational and financial results.
Our results this quarter provide one example of delivering solid results although our focus is always on the long term.
The track record of our improving financial strength and regulatory clarity are also why we recommended and the board approved a 5% dividend increase last week effective with the December dividend payment.
The 5% increase takes a measured step forward from the 4% increases in each of the last 2 years.
Jim will discuss the dividend and the third quarter results in more detail.
But first I'll update you on the regulatory progress and provide a few operational highlights.
In that regard and building on the theme from the last few quarters I will outline the progress that is being made in Arizona to address rate design.
We continue to work with the Arizona Corporation Commission and other stakeholders to take positive steps forward and shape the conversation for the industry.
At a July 22 meeting the ACC voted for a limited reopening of the 2013 net metering decision to consider removing the requirement for APS to file a rate case in 2015 to allow for the possibility of developing rate design options in possible generic proceedings.
The ACC took the next step in an August 12 meeting by voting 5 to 0 to lift the requirements that APS filed its next general rate case by June 2015.
The commissioner has also agreed to discuss possible next steps for considering rate design issues in the September open meeting.
As expected at the September 9 open meeting the commission and staff outlined a conceptual proposal of how a company would proceed to address rate design.
Commissioner has asked staff to provide additional details in writing to be discussed at a future open meeting.
The staff submitted a draft outline to the docket on September 29 describing a potential procedural option that would allow interested parties to have the commission consider and vote on rate design issues prior to starting the rate case time clock in addressing revenue requirements.
Several stakeholders submitted reply comments on October 20 which are now being reviewed.
We agree with several facets of staffs rate design proposal and are working with staff and other stakeholders to make it more efficient.
The staff's proposal was based on an assumed June 2016 revenue requirement filing.
We will determine the exact timing of our filing as the process is finalized but let me remind you of 2 drivers of how we are thinking about rate case timing.
First our priority is to deliver on our commitments to customers and shareholders by managing our cost and the rate gradualization enabled by the adjustors we have in place.
Second we have a peak investment period from 2016 through 2018 driven by the Ocotillo plant modernization project and the environmental upgrades at Four Corners Units 4 and 5.
So we will need to update our revenue to ensure we meet our commitments in 2017 and beyond.
The ACC also has several resource related decisions pending in the coming months.
The certificate of environmental compatibility for the Ocotillo modernization project received approval from the line siting committee last month and now goes to the ACC for approval.
Second the ALJ is expected to issue her recommendation for the Four Corners rate rider.
The ACC is expected to vote on this before the end of the year.
Our third item in front of the ACC is the last 20 megawatts of AZ Sun.
The staff is expected to issue their recommendation then the ACC will review and vote on the need for the last 20 megawatts and whether the project should be utility scale or rooftop.
We also announced in September our proposal to shut down the 260 megawatts of Cholla Power Plant Unit 2 by April 2016 and stop burning coal at Units 1 and 3 by the mid-2020s.
If the EPA approves a compromised proposal offered by APS to meet required environmental and omission standards and rules.
We've requested the ACC approve this plan as well.
Turning to our operations our fleet in electrical grid performed well this summer.
Despite multiple extreme monsoon-related events where we saw flooding in the Phoenix Valley our generated units were not at risk although we did have as many as 50 000 customers lose power at one point in time.
We worked quickly and safely to get customers back online in the storm restoration efforts especially our transmission and distribution and customer service teams.
The Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station had an excellent third quarter.
The site capacity factor was in line with the third quarter of last year at 100%.
Unit 1 entered its planned refueling outage on October 11.
Also in early October 10 Japanese chief nuclear officers toured Palo Verde as well as the nuclear industry's emergency response center located in the western suburb of Phoenix.
This was the reciprocal visit following the U.S.
chief nuclear officers' visit to Japan last September continuing the dialogue of lessons learned in the nuclear industry.
Lastly the joint venture we formed with mid- American transmission in July trans-Canyon will be submitting a bid for the Delaney-Colorado River transmission project by the November 19 due date.
There are a few key checkpoints over the next year but the winning bidder is expected to be announced by the California ISO in the summer of 2015.
Let me conclude where I started.
We continue to meet or exceed our financial targets with the objective of growing the dividend each year.
It's not by accident that we are on track to deliver on our targets again this year even as we have had several drivers work against us.
Over the next few years we see stronger economic recovery as an upside but we are not relying on that upside to deliver on our goal of earning more than a 9.5% return on equity.
Simply put we make our numbers.
As I mentioned earlier the board and the management team focus on the long-term and creating a sustainable energy future for Arizona.
I'll now turn the call over to Jim.
Thank you Don.
Slide 4 outlines the topics I will discuss today.
I will begin with a review of our third quarter results including earnings and the primary variances from last year's third quarter followed by an update on the Arizona economy and I will conclude with an update on the guidance and our financial outlook including -- introducing 2015 guidance.
Slide 5 summarizes our GAAP net income in ongoing earnings.
As usual my comments will refer to ongoing earnings.
For the third quarter of 2014 we reported consolidated ongoing earnings of $244 million or $2.20 per share compared with ongoing earnings of $226 million or $2.04 per share for the third quarter of 2013.
Moving to Slide 6.
You see the variances drove the change in quarterly ongoing earnings per share which were all positive.
An increase in gross margin improved earnings by $0.01 per share compared with the prior year's third quarter.
I will cover the drivers of our gross margin variance on the next slide.
Lower operations and maintenance expense added $0.02 per share largely driven by the favorable impact from lower pension and postretirement expense that has been positively impacted each quarter this year.
Lower depreciation and amortization expenses increased earnings by $0.02 per share in part due to the Palo Verde Unit 2 lease extension we announced in July offset by additional plant in service.
Lower taxes other than income taxes contributed $0.02 per share due to lower property tax rates.
We've generally been experiencing higher property taxes.
However the rates on the property bills we received in September were lower than we had estimated resulting in a favorable adjustment.
Lower interest expense net of AFUDC benefited earnings by $0.04 per share.
The decrease largely reflects reduced interest charges resulting from refinancing long-term debt at a lower rate.
A lower effective tax rate added $0.02 per share primarily driven by tax credits related to our renewable facilities.
The net impact of other items increased earnings by $0.03 per share.
As a reminder both the gross margin and O&amp;M variances exclude expenses related to the Renewable Energy Standard energy efficiency and similar regulatory programs all of which are essentially offset by comparable revenue amounts under adjusted mechanisms.
Also the deferrals associated with the Four Corners transaction and the impacts to our noncontrolling interest for the Palo Verde lease extension are treated in a similar manner.
The drivers I discussed exclude these items as there was no net impact on the third quarter 2014 results.
Turning to Slide 7 and the components of the net increase of $0.01 in our gross margin.
The main components of this were as follows: the lost fixed cost recovery mechanism improved earnings by $0.02 per share which as designed offset some of the impacts from energy efficiency programs and distributed energy; higher transmission revenue increased earnings by $0.01 per share.
We continue to expect transmission revenue to be relatively flat on a full year basis compared to 2013.
The Arizona Sun program benefited earnings by $0.03 per share primarily driven by the Gila Bend project that went into service.
The effects of weather variations decreased earnings by $0.03 per share.
This year's third quarter was unfavorable versus normal and milder than the third quarter of 2013.
Cooling degree days were 8% below normal and 6% lower than the comparable quarter a year ago.
The net impact of other miscellaneous items reduced gross margin by $0.02 per share.
Usage by APS customers compared to third quarter a year ago were flat.
Weather-normalized retail kilowatt hour sales after the effects of energy efficiency programs customer conservation and distributed generation were on par in the third quarter of 2014 versus 2013.
Beginning on Slide 8 is a look at Arizona economy and our fundamental growth outlook.
Arizona's economy continued its steady improvement in the third quarter of 2014.
Absorption of vacant housing in APS's Metro Phoenix territory is averaging between 3 000 units and 5 000 units per year and the number of vacant units is at it's lowest level in 7 years.
The steady absorption is providing support to prices for retail homes and we expect a normalization of this market to continue through the near future.
As we indicated a quarter ago overall housing demands continue to increase.
Total housing permits and multifamily permits are expected to reach their highest activity levels in 2014 since 2007.
The picture is similar for commercial buildings.
Vacant space continues to be absorbed in the office and retail sectors yielding steadily declining vacancy rates as shown in the upper right.
Vacancy rates for industrial space reflects some sizable new developments which have just recently come online.
These trends are indicative of the steady job growth in the Phoenix Metropolitan area and Arizona have been experiencing for the last 3 years.
Arizona has added jobs year-over-year on a very consistent 2% rate since the end of 2011 as seen on the lower right-hand side.
Business services tourism healthcare wholesale trade and financial activities have all been source of growth in recent quarters and highlight the sources for continued occupancy gains in the available commercial floor stock.
On balance we see signs of sustained improvement in our economic environment and a gradually steady recovery.
As in past recoveries it is likely that each successive year in the near term will be stronger as we go forward.
Reflecting the steady improvement in economic conditions APS's customer base grew 1.4% compared with the third quarter last year.
We expect that this growth rate will gradually accelerate in response to the economic growth trends I just discussed.
Importantly the long-term fundamentals supporting future population and job growth in Arizona appear to be in place.
Finally I'll review our earnings guidance and the financial outlook on Slide 9.
We continue to expect that Pinnacle West consolidated ongoing earnings for 2014 will be in the range of $3.60 to $3.75 per share despite a headwind of $0.06 per weather year-to-date through September and load growth somewhat slower than we expected.
We are introducing 2015 ongoing guidance of $3.75 to $3.95 per share.
Cost control and the rate adjustors remain important drivers.
So let me highlight a few key assumptions in 2015 guidance.
The impact of Four Corners expected in race and therefore no longer being deferred is a key driver on most line items.
Depreciation and amortization in particular has a largest increase year-over-year accounting for nearly all of the change in other operating expenses on the guidance slide.
This is driven by the Four Corners deferral that occurred in 2014 along with ongoing plant additions in 2015.
We continue to see customer growth.
We are assuming 1.5% -- 2.5% in 2015 translating to flat -- to 1% sales growth.
a complete list of factors and assumptions underlying our guidance is included in the appendix to our slides.
On a related note we have updated our 3-year customer growth and sales forecast essentially pushing out the recovery a year.
The company's goal continues to be an annualized consolidated earned return on average common equity of more than 9.5% through 2016.
This is driven by our 6% to 7% rate-based growth outlook and the recovery due to adjustors for our capital investments in addition to ongoing cost management efforts.
Lastly as Don discussed the Board of Directors increased the indicated annual dividend last week by $0.11 per share or approximately $0.05 -- 5% to $2.38 per share effective with the December payment.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we'll now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk a little bit about kind of the what the response rate has been on your adapted Arizona Sun solar project? And do you think this is something get resolved with the current commissioner or do you think with the elections till the next year to get new the commissioner's sign off on it? Well I've got Jeff Guldner sitting next to me I'll let him handle it.
Sure Dan.
We've had some interest from customers and so obviously there are 2 pieces to this program.
One of it is to address some customer interest.
The other is to give us some -- inform us on what happens when we put west-facing solar what happens when we take control of inverters on rooftop solar systems.
And so all that's have generated a lot of discussion.
I do expect the commission is likely to -- staff report will come out shortly and that's probably going to be on -- I would expect it to see on the December open meeting.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess with the dividend increase Don kind of the 5% level on earnings growth midpoint at 5% growth.
How should we be thinking about the sustainability or trajectory of the dividend? Is there a room on the payout ratio or do you guys kind of keep things tamped down where they are? Not quite sure of what you mean by tamped down Dan but let me comment one we think there's adequate payout ratio and just the improvements in our financial position and some of the regulatory certainty we felt comfortable and the board agreed moving from a 4% to 5% growth rate.
That's not necessarily locked in.
We will look at it each year but as we can -- continue to grow confidence and our ability to deliver our results we'll take a look at that on a periodic basis.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just one last question.
It wasn't in the slides I don't think but can you talk about where the residential solar permitting activity as in the installations are so far this year relative to last year? Yes Jeff do you want to [indiscernible]? Yes we're monitoring it closely.
We filed quarterly so you can get copies of the quarterly filings.
I think we're seeing installations coming in right now just a little bit below last year's trajectory but we also had the highest months or the second highest months we've seen in September.
And that's been increasing.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions guys.
First Jim going back to your -- a couple of presentations ago when you laid out your financial outlook.
You said you expected retail customer growth to get to about 1% in October sales growth net of 2.5% customer growth by 2016.
So based on your statement that you made at the end of your presentation you basically -- you pushed that out to 2017 is that right? Well we sort of pushed the growth out a year.
I would say that we continue to see positive signs of activity.
As I look out of my window there are 3 construction projects.
The U of A cancer center is nearly complete.
The bioscience center is undergoing expansion and ASU is moving their law school downtown and we'll repurpose the current law school on their Tempe campus.
We also saw last week the first major buying of land by a homebuilder by Shea homes with their intention in Northscott They'll begin to sell houses at the end of 2015.
So we're continuing to see that.
It has been a little sluggish but it's a matter of when it's not a matter of if.
Research Division</strong> But your business plan for '15 and '16 doesn't presume a massive pickup in growth.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> That would just be gravy.
That would be upside.
Research Division</strong> The other thing I wanted to ask is I think you ended the third quarter with an equity ratio at APS still almost 57% and I know you carry minimal to no parent debt.
So can you talk about what your financing plans are because as I look out to 2016 '17 that seems like the time frame when you might need to file a rate case because that's when you'll have a big CapEx plan but on the other -- and then you usually issue equity to make sure your ratios are in-line with your regulatory capital structure around those times.
But given that you are over equitized and given that you have practically no leverage at the parent is it a foregone conclusion that you will need equity? I don't think it's a foregone conclusion.
In the interim because we have such a strong equity ratio we will finance through fixed income security.
And so we'll evaluate that when we look to file a rate case what our capital structure is and how we finance that going forward.
Research Division</strong> All right.
I would make the observation that a lot of your peers that have utility holding companies have used a little bit of that financing capability to fund their equity needs at their operating companies and you guys have no -- have not demonstratively used that capacity.
Is there any reason why we should presume you could not use that capacity? There's no reason you should presume we couldn't use that capacity.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Weinstein with UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's Julien here.
So kind of following up on the tone of the last few questions here.
In terms of keeping your earned ROE in line with your target how much of this is dependent upon cost-cutting and ongoing O&amp;M efforts versus just the sales targets holding itself up.
And to that effect can you maintain your earned ROE beyond just the current period with a slower growth that you are projecting now? So let me answer that this way.
One it's not that dependant upon growth as we've seen in the last 2 or 3 years.
It's really dependent upon the adjusters and our ability I would say less cost-cutting and more cost containment as we move forward.
And we entered this settlement in early 2012 late 2011 we looked at the sales outlook and really said we can manage to the stay out period because we had the adjusters which give us gross margin growth.
And those adjusters continue to get bigger as we move forward.
And we have to control costs and we've been able to do that.
Research Division</strong> Perhaps as a follow up you mentioned the adjusters here is it your expectation at present that you would continue to hold onto those adjusters through the next rate case? Or is that something in your mind that's up for a review in the next case? So certainly to the next rate case.
At that point and we'll have to look at our situation do we keep the same adjusters do we get different adjusters that'll all be part of conversations we'll have at that time.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then lastly here energy storage obviously there has been a little bit of noise in the state around this of late what's the opportunity for you all? Is there an opportunity in rate base or otherwise to invest and what's the time line there if there is? There is some discussion that's going to be held next week I expect at the open meeting around Ocotillo project where we've got a proposal to do some pilot work on energy storage in association with that.
And obviously if you look at our system and some of the changes we are expecting in the future with the need to have more fast ramp in the afternoon that's going to be something that I think you're going to see a lot of discussion that in the southwest.
So the proposal that we're talking about next week with Ocotillo would be a rate-based proposal.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question Jim just to benchmark this goal that you have of earning 9.5% or higher ROE.
And I know you folks calculate that a little different because you look at book numbers not just at the utility numbers.
So can you just let us know on a let's say an LTM basis what is that earned ROE the way you guys are calculating it right now? Well at the middle of our guidance I believe the ROE is about 9.7% or so roughly.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's the middle of the '14 guidance? Correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly I think you also alluded to the fact that in the quarter-over-quarter pickup I think there was about $0.02 benefit on DNA from the nuclear lease extensions.
Correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can just remind us as I recall from your 8-K filing the lease expense has cut in half about $28 million or so.
And as long as your out of rate case starting in '16 does that all fall to the bottom line? Is that the way that we should be thinking about that? So all of the lease reduction will fall to bottom line until the next rate case in which case we'll get that back as a part of our rate which is not necessarily a bad thing since it reduces our ask to customers.
That will hit in '16.
But you have to also remember that would be a positive change.
It will be offsetting other drivers that will go to offset that.
So I wouldn't look at it necessarily as indicative of in and of itself being a big item.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But the other item and another cost pressures and so on right.
But that on a stand-alone basis is a positive for your bottom line? That's a positive.
That would be one of the many items that would go plus and minus as we go year-over-year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right right understood.
And my last question.
If you look at your relationship between customer growth and weather-normalized sales growth are you seeing any differences there? I mean it's been a little difficult to benchmark as you've been hitting that 1.4% growth on customers and yet weather-normalized sales were negative second quarter or flat right now.
Can you give us some more insight on how we should be thinking about that relationship and what's -- is that a consistent rule of thumb looking forward there? So DE is about 0.5% and then EE is about 1% roughly.
So we would think that as growth accelerates that would be positive for sales growth.
And then the interim also keep in mind we have a LFCR which as designed is offsetting some of that reduction.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But that relationship of DE and EE has that been consistent throughout or is that ...
It's been fairly consistent.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Fishman with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> As I compare your new capital expenditure plans with previous there is an increase in traditional generation.
Does that still over the end of the plant? Excuse me.
Charles we...
Research Division</strong> Increase in generation just traditional generation of CapEx just approval.
Charles just changing cash flows as it relates to Ocotillo.
It's been accelerated a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I'm sorry for butchering the name of the plant.
Then my second question is on the mid-America proposal on joint venture with the transmission is that just one of its news put 1000 programs? Essentially it's a network resource to Cal-ISO under their Cal-ISO tarrifs.
So it's a competitive bid project that we intend to bid on.
Research Division</strong> We have seen other projects like this we're certainly an incumbent and it's right away has a leg up.
Is there anything that you confidence you and your partner that won't be the case here? Well it's a 116-mile line with 98 miles of it in Arizona.
So we know the terrain we know the governing bodies great relationship.
So we think that gives us a leg up.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Shahriar Pourreza with Citi.
Research Division</strong> On the 20 megawatts that's remaining under AZ Sun whether the commission goes utility scale or DG is it fair to assume or is it a possibility that the commission is in favor of you doing distributed generation in the lieu of utility scale that they could potentially open the door for you to take on more DG? This is Jeff.
So one of the things just to keep in mind let's say on this program is this was a compliance program.
So we had a 200-megawatt target with AZ Sun project.
We've got 170 megawatts of it built-out.
And so we're really looking at filling this niche and looking at what we could get from a pilot.
Some advantages or some information we can get from pilot standpoint.
So we're not really looking at this as an expansion project at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's that I'm trying to get out.
So if you do the distributed generation it can be seen as a way for you to eventually expand and compete with some of the leasing models in the state? I wouldn't say it competes with those.
I think it's just another alternative for customers to consider and in the case of our proposal virtually any customer relative to economic or credit standards can avail themselves do it all that they need as a structurally sound route.
And while we haven't promoted it yet because we haven't received approval.
We last heard and this is 10 days old like 1 300 1400 customers have called to sign up for it.
So I think there is a lot of interest from our customers.
If you look at multifamily right now there's not really an opportunity for a multifamily unit to move to solar.
And so some of this is looking at how do you feel some of those gaps.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And that's what I'm trying to get out is the proposal that you have in front has a very strong value proposition for rate pair.
So the question is could you leverage this and increase the program and compete with some of the leasing models or provide an alternative beyond the 20 megawatts? Maybe a big maybe is the -- what we're looking at now is part of the compliance program.
And obviously we and our regulators and our customers will learn a lot from that experience and I think based on that we've always done a good job of listening to our customers and what they want.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then just one last question on the 1% -- 0% to 1% growth assumption for next year.
Is that net of energy efficiency in DSM? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just I want to follow up on Greg Gordon's question regarding leverage of the parent.
If I understood the Q&amp;A there I mean it got interrupted I apologize.
But it sounds to me like you guys were indicating that there was some flexibility that you saw there in terms of perhaps some -- funding some -- using some leverage of the parent.
And I guess what I was wondering is any sense as to when one hears that one thing of all sorts of opportunities financially speaking given your situation your metrics and what have you.
And I was just wondering can you quantify as to what maybe potentially you guys might be contemplating on that? No I would just say that it's an A- credit rating.
We feel very good about our financial strength and we're pretty conservative management team as well.
Anything is possible but we're not out to the lever of the holding company with just APS as a sole provider of dividends to the parent.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim von Riesemann with CRT Capital.
Research Division</strong> I want to follow up on Paul's question and Greg.
It's more of a cousin question to it.
If I look at your cash flow statement there is a mismatch of about $60 million in deferred taxes this year between the consolidated parent versus what you did -- or the consolidated numbers versus what you did at APS.
How should I think about one deferred taxes on a go-forward basis? And two what's your view of bonus depreciation if Congress will actually extend? And if so what's the cash benefit to you on an annual basis given your slightly revised CapEx guidance that you provided? View on bonus appreciation is it's not going to change our view on our CapEx program.
I mean we have obligation to serve and what we spend is required to serve.
We have not been a taxpayer.
Well that will turn around in the fourth quarter of '14.
We'll begin to pay taxes.
And if bonus appreciation is not continued we'll begin to turn around that deferred tax balance and begin to pay taxes again.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then -- but if it is continued what's the cash impact to you in the event that it is continued? The cash impact for us will be -- will push off the ITC been able to realize that from 2015 to 2016.
And depending on what they do on bonus appreciation it could be $50 million to $125 million whether they do $50 million or $100 million.
Our next question is a follow-up question from Michael Weinstein with UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's Julien here again.
I just wanted to tie things back together if you will.
You've talked about a 4-ish percent EPS growth previously I'm noticing in the slides here kind of an acceleration I think in the dividend growth.
You're now saying kind of an approximate growth rate of 5%.
How are you thinking at EPS trajectory especially given your ability to continue to earn your ROE? Is that itself accelerating here as we look at the step-up in CapEx in '16 and '18? What are the potential offsets if you will? I mean how are you thinking about it? We always describe it as rate based growth of 6% to 7%.
Before dividend growth of 4% and earnings somewhere in between and I think the 4% to 5% just represents our confidence and our ability to execute.
Those would still be your bookends from a financial performance perspective.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
But from actually materializing that earnings trajectory do you think there is an ability to continue to spend at an accelerated rate beyond kind of that '16 through '18? Or is that kind of a one-time bump? Any of....
With our outlook Phoenix and Arizona continue to be a growth state and provide appropriate regulatory recovery.
I think we'll have continued opportunity.
Research Division</strong> All right got you.
I mean in fact could we hassle a little bit what is the discrepancy between that higher rate base and the lower EPS trajectory if you could kind of talk to that a little bit? It's just a little bit of a regulatory lag.
I think we have about 80% of our CapEx is through some sort of an adjustor -- 40% through an adjustor -- roughly 40% through depreciation.
And so we are losing recovery on about 20% of our rate base growth and that sort of your lag going forward as well as test year expenses versus current year expenses which represent primarily the increase in DNA property tax and things of that nature.
We have reached the end of the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
All right.
Thanks everyone.
We look forward to seeing you [indiscernible].
That concludes our call.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2014 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Paul Mountain Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Thank you Christine.
I would like to thank everyone for participating in this conference call and webcast to review our fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings recent developments and operating performance.
Our speakers today will be our Chairman and CEO Don Brandt; and our CFO Jim Hatfield.
Jeff Guldner APS’s Senior Vice President of Public Policy; and Mark Schiavoni APS’s Chief Operating Officer are also here with us.
First I need to cover a few details with you.
The slides that we will be using are available on our Investor Relations website along with our earnings release and related information.
Note that the slides contain reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Today’s comments and our slides contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and the Company assumes no obligation to update these statements.
Because actual results may differ materially from expectations we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements.
Our 2014 Form 10-K was filed this morning.
Please refer to that document for forward-looking statements cautionary language as well as the risk factors and MD&amp;A sections which identify risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in our disclosures.
A replay of this call will be available shortly on our website for the next 30 days.
It will also be available by telephone through February 27.
I will now turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Paul and thank you all for joining us today.
The fourth quarter wrapped up a productive year and set the stage for further progress in the year ahead.
Earnings finished the year in the middle of the range after adjusting for below normal weather.
APS’s reliability and customer satisfaction remain in the top tier.
Safety had another solid year and Palo Verde set a record for power production.
In fact Palo Verde Unit No.
3 produced the second highest electricity output of any nuclear unit in the world in 2014 and all three Palo Verde units individually ranked among the top six producers in the United States.
Jim will discuss the 2014 financial results but first I’ll update you on the regulatory progress and discuss a few significant projects.
In December the Arizona Corporation commission voted on several key issues and we appreciate their commitment to resolve these items before the bench turned over.
I’ll provide an update on two key issues in a moment but I’d like to first thank commissioners Brenda Burns and Gary Pierce whose terms ended in early January.
We appreciate their commitment to the state over many years of public service and on driving the dialog on several complex regulatory issues.
Commissioners Doug Little and Tom Forese were sworn in on January 5th to four year terms.
Commissioner Susan Bitter Smith was selected by her fellow commissioners as the next chair succeeding Commissioner Stump who did a tremendous job leading the Commission through a challenging period.
Governor Doug Ducey was also sworn in leading a group of many new officials at the state level that are bringing a renewed focus to economic development in Arizona.
We look forward to working Governor Ducey’s team.
I’ll now provide an overview of the key dockets that were voted on in December at the commission.
The Four Corners rate tariff was approved with rates in effect as of January 1st of this year.
The $57.1 million rate change was $8 million below our request however it was in line with the commission staffs and administrative law judges recommended order.
We were pleased to have a final order in this matter.
Separately the commission voted it had no objection for APS to build and own 10 megawatts of residential roof-top solar on approximately 1500 homes.
Now titled the APS Solar Partner program installations will be given a spring.
We’ve had a great deal of interest from our customers and initiated the first of three requests for proposals to qualify local Arizona based installers at the end of January.
We're in the process of determining the system feeders and customers to target which will then be matched up with the selected installers who will inspect roofs and install the roof-top systems.
Putting this program in perspective as of the end of 2014 APS has 30 000 residential roof-top installations equating to about 200 megawatts of installed capacity.
In 2014 interconnection application volume was down slightly from the record setting 2013 numbers but actual installations in 2014 of 7 800 systems was the highest ever showing a 10% increase over 2013.
This robust level of growth causes the unfair cost shift to continue increase.
In addition the ACC initiated a generic docket in December titled in the matter of the inquiry in the solar DG business models and practices and their impacts on public service corporations and rate payers.
Chairman Bitter Smith requested comments by February 13th.
So the commission and staff are now reviewing the comments received last week.
The next steps in timeline for this docket are expected to be discussed at an upcoming commission meeting.
We have included 2015 calendar in our presentation to highlight the key dockets and dates ahead of us this year including the docket I just mentioned.
Let me highlight a few other items.
Rate design discussions are surfacing after the initial discussion last fall.
We're having discussions with several stakeholders to determine the best path forward.
Late last year Salt River project proposed a broad rate restructuring and it is expected this will be voted on at their Board meeting on February 26.
SRP's proposal includes several rate design principles that we have been advocating primarily better alignment of fixed and variable cost and revenue.
While each utility may have a different rate structure it is clear from the national discussion and here in Arizona that appropriately addressing the unfair cost shift and aligning the fixed and variable discrepancy are a top priority.
The Ocotillo modernization project has moved a year closer to beginning construction which is expected in 2016.
We've been working on the necessary approvals and outreach to the surrounding community and are pleased with the reception we have received.
The certificate of environmental compatibility was approved in November.
The last milestone before construction will begin was raised during the commission's integrated resource planning meeting in the fall.
While there was clear support for the first two units which replaced the existing steam units questions were raised on the cost effectiveness of the additional three units.
We have maintained the importance of the five units to serve future load growth as well as improve the valley's reliability.
However to address the concerns that were raised we issued an RFP in late January for the incremental capacity equivalent to three of the five units.
This process is expected to conclude in the summer.
One other item to watch is the Delaney-Colorado River transmission line decision; Trans-Canyon which is joint venture with BAG U.S.
Transmission formerly named Mid-American Transmission submitted its bid to the California ISO on November 19.
In January the bidder list was disclosed six bidders in total.
The Cal-ISO is working through its qualification and selection process and we expect a decision this summer.
Lastly I'll comment on a few recent environmental developments.
On December 19 U.S.
EPA issued its final regulations governing coal ash which regulates coal combustion residuals as non-hazardous.
Our initial estimate a portion of which is included in our capital forecast is that our incremental cost to comply will be approximately $100 million mostly at our Cholla plant.
We're also working with the corporation commission the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality known ADEQ and the Arizona Utilities to encourage the EPA to make revisions to Arizona's requirements under the clean power plan.
Under the draft clean power plan Arizona would be the second most impacted state in the nation.
While APS's diverse portfolio is a clear advantage we are concerned about the impact on other utilities in the state including the need for additional infrastructure and the cost to Arizonans associated with achieving the goals originally established.
We support the State's efforts to enact legislation that enables ADEQ to submit a state plan to U.S.
EPA.
This legislation is necessary to assure EPA does not issue a federal plan for the state of Arizona.
Let me conclude by saying I'm very proud of the leadership of our people again this year ranging from the pursuit of excellence each day across our operations and the safety of our employees and in the discussion on the complex topic rate design.
I expect our team to again lead on these efforts in 2015 and that we will deliver on our commitments this year.
I'll now turn the call over to Jim.
Thank you Don.
The topics I will cover today are outlined on Slide 3 and include a discussion of our 2014 financial results and update on the Arizona economy a look at our financing activity and a review of earnings guidance.
Slide 4 summarizes our GAAP net income and ongoing earnings for the quarter and the full year.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 we reported consolidated ongoing earnings of $5.4 million or $0.05 per share compared with ongoing earnings of $24.3 million or $0.22 per share for the fourth quarter of 2013.
For the full year 2014 we reported consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders of $398 million or $3.58 per share compared to net income of $406 million or $3.66 per share for 2013.
Weather-normalized our earnings for 2014 would have been $3.68 in the middle of our guidance range at $3.60 to $3.75 translating earned consolidated earning of greater than 9.5%.
Slide 5 outlines the full year earnings per share drivers compared to 2013.
Primary favorable variances include higher gross margin supported by the various revenue adjustments and lower interest expense driven by our financing activities and the lower cost of longer term debt.
The effect of adverse weather decreased earnings by $0.16 per share.
To put the unfavorable weather effect in perspective in terms of its impact on megawatt hours 2014 was the second modest year in 15 years including the first quarter of 2014 which was the modest first quarter in 40 years.
There was not much variance in the other drivers including operating and maintenance expenses.
Starting on Slide 6 let me walk through the variances that drove the change in quarterly ongoing earnings per share.
An increasing gross margin improved earnings by $0.07 per share.
I’ll cover the drivers of our gross margin variance on the next slide.
Lower depreciation and amortization expenses increased earnings by $0.01 per share in part due to the Palo Verde Unit 2 lease extension we announced in July offset by additional plant in service.
Lower interest expense net of AFUDC benefited earnings by $0.04 per share.
The decrease largely reflects reduced interest charges resulting from refinancing long-term debt at a lower rate.
Higher operations and maintenance expenses decreased earnings by $0.18 per share largely due to more fossil generation planned outages.
A higher effective tax rate reduced earnings by $0.06 per share including a prior year tax benefit and the extension of bonus deprecation.
The net impact of our other items decreased earnings by $0.05 per share.
Turning to Slide 7 and the components of the net increase of $0.07 in our gross margin.
The main components of this were as follows: the lost fixed cost recovery mechanism improved earnings by $0.01 per share which as designed offset some of the impact from energy efficiency programs and distributed energy.
The Arizona Sun program benefited earnings by $0.01 per share primarily driven by the 32 megawatt Gila Bend solar project that went into service.
The effect of weather variations increased earnings by $0.03 per share.
Although weather in both 2014 and 2013 fourth quarters was less favorable than normal fourth quarter 2014 benefited from warmer October compared to the same month in 2013.
Higher usage by APS's customers compared with the fourth quarter a year ago increased quarterly results by $0.01 per share.
Weather-normalized retail kilowatt hour sales after the effects of energy efficiency programs customer conservation and distributed generation were up 1.9% in the fourth quarter of 2014 versus 2013.
The favorable variance was partly due to the low usage we saw in the fourth quarter in 2013 and was in line with our expectations of where we would end the year.
The net impact of other miscellaneous items added $0.01 per share.
As a reminder both the gross margin and O&amp;M variances exclude expenses related to the Renewable Energy Standard energy efficiency and similar regulatory programs all of which are essentially offset by comparable revenue amounts under our adjustment mechanisms.
Also the deferrals associated with the Four Corners transaction and the impacts to our non-controlling interest for the Palo Verde lease extension are treated in a similar manner.
The drivers I discussed exclude these items as there was no net impact in 2014 results.
Slide 8 presents the look at the Arizona economy in our fundamental growth outlook.
Arizona’s economy continued the steady improvement in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Job growth in Arizona and in Phoenix Metro area picked up modestly at the end of the year and for the quarter.
Arizona added jobs at a 2.6% rate as seen on the lower right hand side of slide 8.
Business services healthcare tourism and consumer services are each adding jobs in excess of 4% on a year-over-year basis and most other sectors continue to grow at more modest rates.
The job growth we’re seeing reflects the attractiveness of Metro Phoenix and Arizona is a great place to do business with excellent access to California and other markets but with much lower cost structure.
This continued job growth is providing a stable pace of absorption in commercial office and retail space yielding a continued decline in vacancy rate in those sectors.
As these markets tighten up we expect to see disruption activity regain.
As an example Phoenix Metro area currently has 2.9 million square feet of office space currently under construction most which will be delivered this year.
This is the highest amount of office construction since 2009.
Although the retail sector remains quite investor space continues to be in high demand with 4 million square feet under construction primarily in our West Valley territory.
We are also seeing continual increases in Metro Phoenix housing demand although the increase in demand is presently being met largely with multi-family development.
Total housing permits and multi-family permits both at cycle highs in 2014 providing their best year since 2007 as you can see in the panel at lower left.
We expect 2015 to be better than 2014 in terms of job growth income growth consumer spending and absorption of residential and commercial vacancies and believe that these trends will translate into higher overall housing activity.
The future market share for apartments versus single-family homes remains a question and is largely dependent on the degree of strength in existing single-family home markets.
As you can see in the panel at the upper left existing home prices has recovered substantially from their recession lows and continue to increase year-on-year.
The recovery in prices reflects the continual absorption of vacant homes apartments in Metro Phoenix and the normalization of foreclosure sales activity.
While existing home prices may not have recovered enough yet to spur new single-family home construction the apartment markets is enjoying the lowest vacancy rate it has seen in 15 years and we believe it is only a matter of time before our new single-family market moves more decidedly in the upward direction.
On balance we see size of sustained improvement in our economic environment and a gradually steady recovery.
As in past recoveries it is likely the each successive year in the near term would be stronger as we go forward.
Reflecting the steady improvement and economic conditions APS's customer base grew 1.4% compared with the fourth quarter last year in line with our forecast.
We expect that this growth rate will gradually accelerate in response to the economic growth trends I just discussed.
Importantly the long term fundamental supporting future population and job growth in Arizona appear to be in place.
Slide 9 outlines our financing activities.
Of January 12 APS achieved $250 million of five year 2.20% senior unsecured notes.
The proceeds from the sale were used to repay commercial paper borrowings and to replenish cash temporarily used to fund capital expenditures.
We plan to refinance a $300 million maturity in 2015 and raise that to $275 million of additional long term debt as assumed in our guidance.
Overall liquidity remains strong.
At the end of the fourth quarter the parent company had no short-term debt outstanding and APS had a $147 million of commercial paper outstanding.
A quick note on pension.
Our funded status remained strong at 90% as of year-end 2014 in line with year-end 2013.
This was due to largely to the continued implementation of our liability driven investment strategy.
The higher funded status translates to lower long term funding requirements.
Also in October the Society of Actuaries issued its final report on mortality tables.
We have incorporated a modified version of a mortality assumptions in our pension calculation which we believe better reflects our employees' demographics.
Additional detail is shown on the slide included in the appendix of today's presentation.
Finally  I'll review our earnings guidance and the financial outlook on Slide 10.
We continue to expect Pinnacle West's consolidated ongoing earnings for 2015 will be in the range of $3.75 to $3.95 per share.
The rate adjustments in cost management remain important drivers.
A complete list with factors and assumptions underlying our guidance is included in the appendix to our slides which are unchanged.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we will now take questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Mr.
Eggers your line is live perhaps you have yourself on mute.
We can go to the next question Dan can get back in the queue.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
First question I know you guys talked about the weather impact in 2014 on the earnings but as recently at the end of the Q3 results or around EEI time we were still looking at the 360 to 375 guidance range for the year.
So when we look at the 358 that you reported what were the big factors relative to your own assumptions in the fourth quarter that caused us to miss the lower end of guidance for the year? Well we had negative weather in the fourth quarter as we talked about.
We also had the extension of bonus depreciation which pushed out our ability to use production tax credits which had a negative impact of about $0.03 on the quarter as well.
Got it okay.
And then secondly looking at the dynamic between weather-normalized sales growth and customer growth I know quarterly numbers tend to gets queued but your customer growth has been fairly steady 1% and yet we saw the 1.9% weather-normalized sales number in the quarter.
Again anything to extrapolate from that and just remind us what the expectations are for customer growth and weather-normalized growth for 2015? Well for customer growth we’re looking 1.5% to 2.5% for ‘15 with 1.4% fourth quarter of this year.
Weather-normalized sales sort of flat to 1% range.
I think it’s important in the fourth quarter of 2013 we had I think a negative 2% sales growth and I would not look at the quarter in and of itself.
I would really look over the course of the year where we really had sort of flat sales and 1.4% customer growth.
Got it.
And my last question Jim with regards to the current thinking in terms of the timing of the next rate case and the earliest need for equity just remind us again where you stand today on both of those factors.
No change really we’re looking at not filling until at the earliest mid-16 at equity again no earlier than 2016 at the earliest.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with Keybanc.
Please proceed with your question.
Just real quickly do you have any sizable maturities coming up and kind of how you’re thinking about the opportunities on the interest lend? While we have 300 million of debt maturing earlier this year -- later this year which we'll refinance.
We also have maturities in 2016 and then our big maturity is on 2019.
So we’ll look at all factors when we look at that in today’s interest rate environment.
We chose January to take advantage the short end of the curve due to demand but we still have historically low interest rates across the board and see that those refinancing got really an opportunity to incrementally provide some interest savings.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Weinstein with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
I was wondering if you can characterize how the discussions at the commission have been going with regard to rate design.
I understand comments were was taken and is the process moving forward at a quick pace regular place? Has it installed recently and what kind of initiatives what’s the involvement of the Company in those discussions.
Michael this is Jeff Guldner.
So I think those discussions are moving forward at a normal pace and so what you’re seeing right now is comments from the parties here in Arizona obviously folks are also paying attention on what’s happening on the national scene and there's a lot of discussions that are happening nationally and we're engaged in both of those.
So we're engaged at a state level.
We're also participating in the national debate.
Right and would you say that the things are moving along at the pace you expected? Yes I think what you'll see -- so you've got two new commissioners that have just taken their seats and so I think you'll see the discussions continue to accelerate here in the next few months.
And do you still expect that or -- do you have any expectation that rate design and metering those types of issues be dealt with separately outside of the rate case or whether they'll be rolled into a rate case? Well it's a state wide issue.
So remember there's going to be a discussion on this what it means from a state perspective how the implementation happens as part of that discussion.
And so we've got a mechanism right now that is the LFCR DG adjuster.
That's a component or that's one method of addressing really the cost shift issue but structurally how do you the rate design changes.
We know a lot of that's going to happen in a rate case.
Okay I guess maybe the crux of the question is more like when do these when does action have to be taken by the commission on this docket? How early does it have to happen? What's the latest that could happen before so that a separate process could occur or at some point I guess it's just too late you've to roll it in into the rate case because the file is coming in mid '16? So there is no time clock on the discussion.
So the discussion -- I can't tell you when the discussion is going to -- how it's going to specifically unfold but from a process standpoint some rate design changes are going to have to happen in a rate case.
It's helpful to have the discussion of what that process should look like and what some of the issues are ahead of the rate case filing.
It appears we've no further questions at this time.
I'd now like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
All right well thanks everyone.
I mean as you look at the 10-K and then materials please give us a call if you have any questions and we'll talk with you soon.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Greetings and welcome to the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2015 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Paul Mountain Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Thank you Christine.
I would like to thank everyone for participating in this conference call and webcast to review our first quarter 2015 earnings recent developments and operating performance.
Our speakers today will be our Chairman and CEO Don Brandt; and our CFO Jim Hatfield.
Jeff Guldner APS’s Senior Vice President of Public Policy; and Mark Schiavoni APS’s Chief Operating Officer are also here with us.
First I need to cover a few details with you.
The slides that we will be using are available on our recently redesigned Investor Relations website along with our earnings release and related information.
Note that the slides contain reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Our website now allows you to sign-up for e-mail alerts so I encourage you to register if you would like to receive automatic updates of our filings and news releases.
Today’s comments and our slides contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and the company assumes no obligation to update these statements.
Because actual results may differ materially from expectations we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements.
Our first quarter Form 10-Q was filed this morning.
Please refer to that document for forward-looking statements cautionary language as well as the risk factors and MD&amp;A sections which identify risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in our disclosures.
A replay of this call will be available shortly on our website for the next 30 days.
It will also be available by telephone through May 8.
I will now turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Paul and thank you all for joining us today.
Despite mild weather we’re off to another solid start this year.
Our operations are running well and preparing for the summer peak.
Palo Verde nuclear generating station continues to deliver excellent results and it’s also preparing for the summer with Unit 3 in a planned refueling outage that began Easter weekend.
Before Jim discusses the first quarter results and our updated financial outlook there are few regulatory and strategic developments I’ll update you on.
First rate design continues to be a priority for APS and it is so increasingly across the country.
We’ve seen progressive steps in other states as well as by our peer utilities here in Arizona.
Salt River Project’s board approved a broad rate design change in February while Trico Sulphur Springs UniSource and TEP all filed for net metering related changes earlier this year.
The steps each utility is taking varies but appropriately addressing the cost shift and lining the fixed and variable cost discrepancy as a top priority.
On April 2 APS asked the Arizona Corporation Commission to increase the grid access charge for future residential solar customer from $0.70 per kilowatt to $3 per kilowatt or approximately $21 per month.
We’ve asked the ACC to have this effective August 1.
In its 2013 decision the ACC found that an interim monthly charge of $3 per kilowatt was reasonable to cover the cost to operate and maintain the electric grid but decided to begin with a smaller charge of $0.70 per kilowatt and monitor the issue.
APS is simply asking the Commission to implement its 2013 decision.
Our proposal would not fully resolve the cost shift but it’s rather intended to be an interim solution until the issue is more fully addressed in the next rate case or another proceeding.
RUCO agrees that this interim solution should be approved to help mitigate some of the cost shift before the issue can be dealt with more fully in a rate case.
New solar customers would have the option of selecting an existing rate that includes a demand charge.
Other components of the future of rate design would include use of the demand charge on a broader scale and sending better price signals to customers by modifying the time of use rate structures.
Since 2013 rooftop solar has seen steady growth.
Now over 31 000 customers in our service territory have a rooftop solar system installed.
This level of activity reinforces our commitment to modernizing our grid and updating our pricing structures to give customers the platform they need to support the different types of energy and services they want.
Our APS Solar Partner Program where APS will be installing and owning rooftop solar on about 1 500 homes equal to about 10 megawatts is now being rolled out.
We’ve completed two of the three scheduled RFPs to select the Arizona-based companies that will be installing the systems.
And we’ve begun soliciting customers on the first group of feeders we’ve chosen for the program.
This innovative program allows us to partner with the Electric Power Research Institute to conduct research on maximizing the efficiency and effectiveness of distributed solar generation and its interaction with the grid.
In working with various stakeholder groups for this pilot including the Arizona Solar Deployment Alliance which represents Arizona-based solar installers we’re helping Arizona maintain its solar leadership while ensuring our customers are served well.
Our utility scale program AZ Sun has two projects under construction in the Phoenix metro area that will bring that program to 170 megawatts.
Those projects are expected to be online this summer.
In fact our AZ Sun program has largely contributed to another strong showing by APS in Arizona in the Solar Electric Power Association’s Annual utilities solar rankings that were published this week.
APS was ranked in the top five in four categories including cumulative megawatts and annual and cumulative interconnections.
The Ocotillo modernization project is an important investment to maintain reliability in the Valley and support the growth in renewable generation.
We issued an RFP in late January for the incremental capacity at our Ocotillo peaking facility equivalent to three of the five new units.
Bids were received in March and have been evaluated.
The RFP affirmed that APS’s bid at the existing Ocotillo site is the most cost effective.
Additionally our analysis of the project which was reflected in the bid determined that it was optimal from a customer impact standpoint to have the project completed in 2019 instead of 2018.
And Jim will discuss the financial implications of this change.
There are couple of transmission-related items to update you on also.
First we recently completed construction of the what we call the Hang 2 line or the Hassayampa-North Gila #2 500 KV transmission line.
The project remains on schedule and is expected to be energized in the second quarter this year after testing and commissioning of both the Hassayampa switch yard and the North Gila substation is complete.
In total the 112-mile-long line into Yuma required construction of 390 steel towers through some extremely difficult terrain.
This is a very important project for our company to meet customers’ energy needs in southwestern Arizona.
And second the Delaney Colorado transmission line decision is expected by the California ISO this summer.
During the bidding collaboration period TransCanyon and Southern California Edison submitted a joint proposal to the Cal ISO for this project.
That replaces the individual bids both parties submitted in November of last year.
The collaboration brings together the experience expertise and proven track record each organization has in their respective states TransCanyon in Arizona and Southern California Edison in California.
Let me conclude by saying that our focus will continue to be to make decisions and investments that position APS in Arizona for sustainable success in a changing energy world.
I’ll now turn the call over to Jim.
Thank you Don.
The topics I will cover today are outlined on Slide 3 and included [Technical Difficulty] quarter financial results an update on the Arizona economy and a review of our financial outlook.
For the first quarter of 2015 we reported consolidated ongoing earnings of $16.1 million or $0.14 per share compared with ongoing earnings of $15.8 million or $0.14 per share for the first quarter 2014.
Slide 4 outlines the variances in our quarterly ongoing earnings per share.
I’ll highlight a few of the more significant drivers.
An increase in gross margin improved earnings by $0.07 per share.
I’ll cover the drivers of our gross margin variance on the next slide.
Higher operations and maintenance expenses decreased earnings by $0.03 per share largely due to fossil generation plant outages.
Higher depreciation and amortization expenses decreased earnings by $0.06 per share.
This variance includes the absence of the 2014 Four Corners cost deferrals and related 2015 amortization of the deferrals and costs associated with the acquisition price.
G&amp;A expenses were also higher due to additional plant in service.
These higher costs were partially offset by the Palo Verde Unit 2 lease extension we announced in July of last year.
As included in our guidance G&amp;A will be higher all year largely due to Four Corners.
Lower interest expense net of AFUDC benefited earnings by $0.04 per share.
The decrease largely reflects reduced interest charges resulting from refinanced long-term debt at a lower rate.
Turning to Slide 5 and the components of the net increase of $0.07 in our gross margin collectively the revenue adjustors continue to add incremental growth to our gross margin as designed including the Four Corners rate change that went to effect on January 1 and contributed $0.06 per share.
Offsetting Four Corners expenses are included in the other drivers primarily D&amp;A which I mentioned earlier.
The effect of weather variations increased earnings by $0.04 per share.
Although weather on both the 2015 and 2014 first quarters were less favorable than normal the first quarter 2015 benefited from an unseasonally warm March compared to the same month in 2014.
While residential heating degree days a measure of the effects of weather were 6% higher than last year’s first quarter heating degree days were 51% below normal 10-year averages.
As a result weather negatively impacted 2015 first quarter by $0.06 per share compared with the historically normal conditions.
Lower usage by APS customers compared with the first quarter a year ago decreased quarterly results by $0.01 per share.
Weather normalized retail kilowatt hour sales after the effects of energy efficiency programs customer conservation and distributed generation were down 0.8% in the first quarter of 2015 versus 2014.
The expiration of a long-term wholesale contract at the end of 2014 which is included in guidance lowered earnings by $0.02 per share.
There will be a similar variance each quarter this year.
As a reminder both the O&amp;M and gross margin variances exclude expenses related to the renewable energy standard energy efficiency and similar regulatory programs all of which are offset by comparable revenue amounts under the adjustment mechanisms.
Also the impact of our non-controlling interest for the Palo Verde lease extensions are treated in a similar manner.
The drivers I discussed exclude these items as there was no net impact on first-quarter results.
Slide 6 presents a look at the Arizona economy and our fundamental growth outlook.
Arizona’s economy continues to grow much like it has in the past several quarters.
Job growth in Arizona and the Phoenix metro area remain above the national average as they have for the past 15 quarters.
As seen on the lower right hand side of Slide 6 Arizona added jobs at 2.6% year-over-year rate in the first quarter the fastest rate of job growth since Q4 2006.
Notably this job growth has occurred without relying on the construction sector.
Business services healthcare tourism and consumer services are the sectors with the strongest job growth and highlighted diversity of Arizona’s economy.
Additionally several sources have recently ranked the greater Phoenix area as one of the top places for small business and entrepreneurs.
The requirement for small business start-ups is very strong.
As I indicated before we believe that job growth we are seeing reflects the attractiveness of metro phoenix and Arizona as a great place to do business with excellent access to California and other markets but with a much lower cost structure.
Of the 15 largest US metropolitan areas the Phoenix metro area ranked second in population growth in 2014.
This healthy population and job growth is providing continued support for an improved real estate market.
As seen in the upper right hand side of Slide 6 vacancy rates for commercial space continue to edge down and activity in these sectors has picked up with 2.8 million square foot of industrial space and 4.3 million square feet of office space under construction in the first quarter of 2015.
Residential housing demand in metro Phoenix also continues to increase.
As I mentioned on our last call the increase in demand is primarily being met by multifamily development.
Housing market permit activity can be seen in the panel at lower left.
We expect 2015 to be better than 2014 in terms of job growth income growth consumer spending and absorption of residential and commercial vacancies and believe that these trends will translate into higher overall housing activity.
The future market share for apartments versus single-family homes remains a question and it’s largely dependent on the degree of strength in existing single-family home market.
As you can see in the panel up the upper left existing home prices have recovered substantially from their recession lows and continue to increase year-over-year.
Recovery in prices and rents reflects a continual absorption of vacant homes and apartments in metro Phoenix.
On balance we see signs of sustained improvement in our economic environment and continued recovery.
We expect each successive year in the near-term will be stronger as we go forward.
Reflecting the steady improvement in economy conditions APS’s customer base grew 1.2% compared with the first quarter of last year.
We expect this growth rate will gradually accelerate in response to the economic growth trends I just discussed.
Importantly the long-term fundamentals support future population job growth and economic development in Arizona appear to be in place.
Finally I will review our earnings guidance and financial outlook.
We continue to expect Pinnacle West’s consolidated ongoing earnings for 2015 will be in the range of $3.75 to $3.95 per share.
The rate adjustors and cost management remain important drivers.
A complete list of factors and assumptions underlying our guidance is included on Slide 7 which are unchanged from our last confirmation of guidance.
Looking ahead to 2015 debt issuance we plan to refinance a $300 million maturity in the second quarter and raise up to $325 million of additional long-term debt as assumed in our guidance.
Overall liquidity remains very strong.
At the end of the first quarter the Parent Company had no short-term debt outstanding and APS had $45 million of commercial paper outstanding.
Included in the appendix to today’s presentation are our updated capital expenditures and rate base slides.
Based on our revised projections the total CapEx for the Ocotillo modernization project is now about $500 million which reflects a 2019 in-service date and a refined estimate from our previous total of $600 million to $700 million.
Our rate base growth outlook is still 6% to 7%.
As we continue to refine our forecast we currently expect the equity component of the capital structure for APS will be approximately 54% at the end of this year.
Therefore we will not need to issue equity to support the capital structure for this rate cycle.
We now forecast that we will not need additional equity until 2017 at the earliest.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we will now take questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Daniel Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Daniel.
On the equity delay can you just walk through the math of - maybe help us to make sure I understand where the cash is coming in to let you push that out and then what effect that may have on the math behind the rate case as far as what your equity issue is going to be? It will not affect the math on the equity issue - issuance.
What we have is really the ability to finance our capital structure within the 54% equity component through the issuance of fixed income securities.
So are you guys going to use a layer of Parent level debt to substitute as equity at the utility or is it just the underlying cash flow? The underlying cash flow.
We currently project that the equity component for rate-making purposes at APS will be 54% at the end of the year which is consistent with the capital structure in our last case.
And then probably given the likelihood of the ideal stay out in the next case is there - is 2017 just a place marker for a future rate case or is there some other reason why you can’t issue equity then? No.
But Dan I’d - good question.
I’d emphasize Jim’s qualifier on 2017 at the earliest.
Without - no that’s not a placeholder for rate case at that point in time.
And it probably would be if there was equity in 2017 or beyond it would be to true-up the cap structure for rate case which conceivably could be beyond 2017 but maybe a year or two.
Okay got it.
And then on the rate base growth at Ocotillo coming later and less are there some other things that are filling in capital-wise we should be paying attention to? Well we have obviously Four Corners.
As we go out into the other years you have pickup in transmission and distribution spend for the most part.
So you’re comfortable back-filling for that delay? Oh yes.
Yes.
Yes.
We see real visibility into our rate base growth.
Okay very good.
And then I guess one last question on kind of the net metering proposal change the fixed charge element.
What does that do to the cost attractiveness of solar if you guys were to go to that $21? I know that some of your peers in the state the numbers they’ve gone to have effectively shut down solar development.
Does that - does yours have a similar impact or lesser so? Dan this is Jeff Guldner.
We obviously don’t think it will.
One of the things to consider with that is when we went to the $0.70 charge that was static.
And there was originally a proposal in the recommended order they were considering at the time that would step that up as installations continued and we continued to meet the distributed energy carve-out in the RPS.
And essentially if we would have followed that if that would have been adopted and we would have followed that we would be at the $3 charge.
So the challenge right now is that when you don’t adjust that charge and you’ve got no upfront incentives every time there is a cost reduction on the installed cost to solar we are not able to capture that.
And so we’re paying too much today for the solar that’s going in our territory.
Okay got it.
Thank you guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Jim just to understand the chronology of events as they take place you filed this fixed charge increase.
I guess staff by the way came out against it.
But in any case how do you anticipate the process playing out? You’ve asked for this to be implemented by August.
There is the rate design proceeding going on and then there is the rate case that you will file I believe still next year.
So can you just help me understand how all of these things sort of play out from here as you expect them to? Yes.
So Ali this is Jeff Guldner.
So the grid access charge was an interim step.
And so the filing that we made was fairly limited and it was within the context of the case that was addressed in 2013.
And so we stayed within that framework and went up to the level of a grid access charge that was supported in that decision which was the $3 a lot level all that is interim.
All it does is when that - revenues are collected under that they go into a balancing account that reduces the amount of the cost shift and that basically offsets about four times the cost shift that we are seeing today.
That’s different from the structural rate design issues which is a more long-term issue.
So that we expect to be addressed in the rate case and we expect there to be continued discussions around rate design as we lead up to the rate case.
And you are also seeing now more debate around the region.
California has got a proposed decision out.
All those are talking about the long-term ways to address the cost shifting issue.
But that’s very different from the grid access charge.
There is an oral argument that will be heard in our case in June on June 12 and we’ll get more visibility after that oral argument as to how that case will proceed.
Staff is recommending that nothing happen in a - occur in a rate case but we’ve pointed out that what’s happening is we’re continuing to see that cost shift and it’s building up in front of that next rate case.
And without doing something like this you are not going to see the cost shift addressed until you come out of the next rate case.
Okay.
And so just to be clear on the rate design proceeding and the timing of your rate case filing can you just remind us what time frame we’re looking at? So what we’re looking at right now is we would be beginning stakeholder outreach here in the summer working towards filing with a 2015 test year making the filing in mid-2016.
Okay.
And then separately Jim I know the first quarter is obviously not the biggest quarter by far for you guys but when I look at the customer growth of 1.2% and the weather-normalized negative 0.8% both of those numbers have come down relative to what we were trending at the end of last year any concern with that as you’re looking forward for the year? No.
Okay.
So those are still anomalies in your mind.
Well I think with more multi-family homes and then the housing you have a longer lag between sort of permits and actual customers.
So we still believe the pipeline is robust and we’ll hit our numbers.
And last question - now with the later need for equity issuance when we look at that 6% to 7% CAGR for rate base you’ve laid out for us what kind of EPS growth rate should we be thinking about that’s supported with that kind of a CAGR? Well as you know we haven’t talked specifically about earnings growth except you would expect it somewhere between rate base growth and dividend growth.
So again 6% to 7% to 5% the total would be your parameters.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys.
This is Mike.
I’m a little confused.
I’m looking at your fourth quarter slide deck and I’m looking at today’s slide deck and I’m just looking at the capital spending levels.
The - today’s 2015 estimate is down $30 million or $40 million 2016 is down almost $200 million 2017 is up about $30 million or $40 million.
How do you - how does - given that’s a net decline in capital spending how do you maintain rate base growth? I understand you’re going to have growth.
How do you maintain the same growth rate I guess or a similar growth rate? Well 2014 dropped slightly so that’s your starting point and you have Ocotillo pushed to 2018 and 2019.
So all you’ve really done is changed the timing of your cash flows on a year-over-year basis you end up at the same spot.
Meaning by 2019 you wind up at the same growth rate but it’s kind of very back-end loaded with Ocotillo.
And the front end the three-year growth rate is a lower growth rate relative to the five year? Correct.
Okay.
I wanted to think about the rate case timing and cycle.
When do you expect new rates to go into effect? Well we’ve sort of assumed again getting a rate case done within that 12-month window that we’ve been able to do that we were able to accomplish in 2011 and 2012 when we actually did it in 10.5 months.
So you would file mid-2016-ish time frame for mid-2017 rates or something later than that? No.
Yes.
That’s sort of our planning assumption at the moment.
Any chance you could stay out? Well we’ll certainly look at what we earn and where allowed ROEs are.
But I think one key component of 2016 is really addressing the cost shift.
And so you’d have to look at the pros and cons and the con would be you are just - you are not addressing the cost shift.
Got it.
And then Don just a bigger picture question about Arizona and utility regulation.
If you had to look at the Commission today and some of the actions today what do you think is different versus the last three or four years two or three years in terms of goals directives focus areas for this Commission versus the last couple years? I’m not sure there’s a dramatic difference.
I think the Commission today is focused on the current environment and creating a sustainable energy future for Arizona and working with us and the other utilities in a constructive fashion.
Times change and the Commission is adapted to it and I think they are doing it in a very constructive way.
Got it.
Thank you Don.
Much appreciated.
You’re welcome.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Chin with Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Hi Brian.
Given the Tesla battery announcement last night does it make sense for APS to propose a storage solution kind of like the successful AZ Sun program? What are some of the considerations around that? How do you think about that? Brian this is Mark Schiavoni.
We do have as part of the 10-megawatt program we talked about that we have a component in there of a little over 2 megawatts of storage that we are looking at as part of that.
So we are continuing to look at the technologies so not just solar but also battery storage and other technology that may help the grid perform in the long-term.
Gotcha.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Weinstein with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys.
Hello.
I was wondering if you look at the slide on PD residential applications it’s obvious that quarter-over-quarter it’s a pretty large increase.
But sequentially if you look over that - since July it’s been kind of the similar numbers and I’m just wondering if that’s sort of you expect it to flatten out for the rest of the year or are we going to see that number continuing to double with every month? I don’t know that we could actually predict what’s going to happen the rest of the year.
I think we don’t - certainly we certainly don’t see any slowdown in residential rooftop in Arizona at this point.
Yes Mark Schiavoni.
I think that our application rate has gone up over time but it does not necessarily mean complete installation down the road.
And that’s what we’re trying to better understand will those applications actually turn into installations.
All right.
And in the multi-family home versus single-family home category in that chart that you have on page 6 it looks like your prediction is for a big decline in multi-family versus single-family.
I’m just wondering what drives that and why do you think that’s going to happen? Well if you look at home affordability right now you have very low interest rates and very high rents.
That tells us that homebuilding will begin again home buying will continue to go up.
And I think that would echo what the local homebuilders are also saying.
Traffic is up significantly rebates have stabilized.
And so we see that cycle beginning to pick up a bit.
Yes I’ll add I believe we talked about it on the second quarter call last year in our discussions with home builders they’re predicting and they’ve got a pretty good plot of the customer the potential home buyers that walked away from homes and foreclosures and bankruptcy.
And depending on what kind of financing they’re using they couldn’t buy a home up until the point that burns off their credit rating.
And they’re expecting that bubble to occur in late 2015 and going on into 2016 2017 - again depending on whether it’s conventional or FHA financing.
And one final question.
Is the - for the net metering fee increase what percentage of the actual cost shift in your latest calculation is that? In previous filings you talked about maybe a $64 to $74 cost shift per month.
I’m just wondering what the latest numbers are.
Yes I mean that’s essentially what you’re seeing and so you’re going to continue to see the rate making cost shift be around that $65 to $70 range.
And so this is going to mitigate a relatively small proportion of that.
But right now within that framework that’s the mitigation that we’ve got between now and the next rate case because the additional cost shifting if you’re going to pick that up is more than likely going to be in the context of a rate design change than a rate case.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Shar Pourreza with Guggenheim.
Please proceed with your question.
Shar.
Shar your line is live.
Perhaps you got yourself on mute.
Sorry about that I have been on mute.
Good morning.
With the current - under the assumption that you get approval of the current fixed charge which is still obviously materially lower than what your real fixed costs are is there an opportunity in the upcoming rate case to adjust the decoupler the partial decoupler to also include distributed generation and loss load? This is Jeff again.
So the partial decoupler in there includes distributed energy right now.
So what we’d be looking at in the next case is how do we adjust that.
Our proposal would be to adjust that to pick up more of it make sure that we’re fully capturing it.
Right now it doesn’t pick up the full effect.
Okay.
And that’s in addition to the fixed cost that you’re currently requesting.
Right.
So if you change the fixed cost and grid access charge right now it just credits that account.
So it credits the revenues that come under that lost fixed cost recovery mechanism is what it’s called.
If you go out into future rate case if you do rate design changes that changes the effect of the decoupler.
So if you’re decoupling but you’re recovering more fixed costs your variable costs are what drives the coupling mechanism those would be lower.
Got it that’s helpful.
And then on the 10 megawatt distributed generation program you have can you just remind us what the waiting list is or how much it was oversubscribed? This is Mark.
Right now we’re in a process of looking and vetting various customers that are going to be potential for this program.
If you recall part of the program was technology and we want to look at it from an operational side as well.
We’ve been going through the selection process on our feeders which ones we want to address.
We’ve been starting to get in contact with customers - a little over 3 000 customers that we’ve reached out to for potential subscription.
The last hurdle we have is working through our inverters and getting a UL listed inverter for this system and we expect that in the next month or so.
So from an actual subscription we’re just in initial phases.
We have about 3 000 we’re addressing currently.
Got it got it.
And then just on the PV application I know it’s a little preliminary but do have you the April data? No have not seen it yet.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Our next question comes from the lines of Charles Fishman with Morningstar.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Don I was wondering if I could go back to a comment you made as part of your opening comments.
When you said - I believe you said - that the ultimate solution of the cost sharing between solar and non-solar customers is some type - is a broader use of a demand charge.
And I was just curious what your technical capability is of that.
I would assume all your industrial customers have demand meters.
What percentage of your commercial customers have demand meters? And I’m assuming very few if any of your residential customers have demand meters since I don’t believe you’ve had a smart meter installation program to date.
Could you address that? Yes I actually I’ll start with the last first.
We’ve had one of the largest smart meter deployments in the nation on a per customer.
We have all but a small fraction of our residential customers on smart meters.
Do those have demand - are you able to measure demand with those? Yes.
Metering is not an issue.
And I think 99.9% of commercial customers have demand reading meters also.
So really from a technical standpoint you’re ready to go it’s just getting the regulators to see the light.
Not the way I’d say it but the metering will not be an issue.
Charles we also have over 100 000 customers on really a demand charge now - residential.
So we probably have one of the largest deployment of residential demand in the country.
I believe we’re one of only two utilities in the nation that had a demand rate for residential customers before recent times.
I think it’s like 110 000 customers are on that.
What I think your smart meter deployment was so long ago I forgot about it.
You were one of the first.
I believe that’s correct.
Okay.
Thank you.
Okay Charles.
Our next question comes from Daniel Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey just circling back on a couple things I guess first of all.
as you think about the discussion process of stakeholders on the next rate case filing is there going to be anything regulatory design wise that you guys are going to look to test out if more forward-looking mechanism more clauses? Is there anything we should be thinking about maybe getting put into the next case? Dan this is Jeff.
We always look at both what’s happened around the country and what other mechanisms are working.
Just remember in some of the post test year plan adjustments and other things that the Commission staff RUCO and others here have been very forward-looking with have been very effective in terms of actually bringing more certainty than in some cases you would get with a future test year where you start looking at predictions.
So we’re able to do really well I think in catching those mechanisms up to plan at the end of the conclusion of a rate case.
But obviously we continue to look at that.
And that’s part of these process with stakeholder dialogue to see what kind of engagement we get from stakeholders on things like that.
Okay.
And then I guess the other question Don what’s going on maybe in the solar market for these other territories where they’ve raise the fixed charges a lot? Is it really shutting down solar as some of the stories have said or are people getting a little more creative? I don’t know much about other’s territories other than what I read in the paper on that here locally.
But right after - shortly after the SRP decision which shifted from I’ll say the conventional metering protocol to more demand based there was an article in our local paper - and Jim or Paul could shoot you the link to that - about some of the local installers who I know from my conversations with them knew long term the current construct was not sustainable.
And they came back and they’re looking at using batteries to install in customers’ homes along with solar and to be able to shift the solar production from maybe midday just a few hours to cover the real peak hours which is the issue we have.
The reality is that solar production’s more towards the midday and diminishes significantly by about 4 o’clock.
Our actual peak and the peak in the area - so it would be the same for a solar project - is typically in the 4:30 to 7:30 timeframe.
Mark can probably add a little more to the technical side of that.
Yes Don stated it correctly.
With the solar installations being mostly southward facing to maximize the advantage they have over the current rates and that metering program.
That’s why our pilot has been so important is to look at these 10 megawatts that we’re putting on roofs.
We’re using westward facing to better understand our distribution system operations going forward to enable all of the technologies that we may be looking at in the future.
What’s the effect on utilization when they go from west to south total productivity of the solar panel? What everybody’s heard about is the duck curve.
That duck curve is lessened and so depending on the size or how much you have in that direction.
But you can gain about 20% from a production standpoint if you face it westward versus southward.
But the challenge then is that customer they’re losing 20% of the energy production which is the credit in that metering.
And there’s no price signal given to shift it to later in the day for capacity value.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Fallon with SIR Capital Management.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
I just wanted to go back over the timing of the equity.
Is equity off the table for the upcoming rate case and wouldn’t be in play until the following rate case after that? Is that what you’re saying? What we’re saying is based on where we believe the rate-making capital structure will be at year end for APS it’s at approximately 34% which is consistent with the equity of our last case.
Therefore the premise that we need to issue equity to support this capital structure has changed.
Couple of factors; one is moving Ocotillo out changes our cash flows so we don’t need to issue equity until 2017 at the earliest.
And then in that case it would really not be tied to a rate case as much as it would be tied to a source of capital to maintain our rating.
Assuming you’re going to file in 2016 would 2015 be the test year? Correct.
Okay.
So for that rate case at the end of the year you would be equal to what you’ve had in the last rate case in terms of equity ratio so you wouldn’t need to issue equity to be in compliance with that if that’s the same equity ratio you’re going to seek? Yes.
That’s correct.
Okay.
And the other question just in terms of weather-normalized sales it’s just been so volatile quarter-to-quarter.
Could you give a little bit more color in terms of how things are going? We think we’re going to hit our forecast for the year which is slightly positive sales growth and customer growth around two.
We see a pipeline certainly in the multi-family.
And believe based on what we’re seeing in terms of oil prices and talking to local builders that there will be a pickup in activity later this year that will be reflected into - and is incorporated in our forecast.
Has the volatility in… Kevin I wasn’t worried.
I mean the first quarter is a shoulder quarter.
We’re really going to look to second and third quarter and see is there any trends here that we need to adjust to.
So I think its wait and see in terms of the volatility.
Do you think that there’s some anomaly in terms of the weather normalization and the fact that you guys are so third quarter driven in terms of results that that may give a little bit more volatility than the actual underlying? Is that kind of where you see things? Yes I think you always see that in the first and fourth quarters where any sort of anomaly in weather has such a big impact on what we consider normal that we tend to look at the second and third quarter for - as more trends than the first and fourth which is consistent with a lot of our numbers in the first and fourth quarter.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Mr.
Mountain we have no further questions at this time.
I’d now like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
Thank you.
Thanks for joining us today that concludes our call.
Ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2015 Second-Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Paul Mountain Director of Investor Relations for Pinnacle West Capital Corporation.
Thank you Mr.
Mountain you may begin.
Thank you Jerry.
I would like to thank everyone for participating in this conference call and Webcast to review our second-quarter 2015 earnings recent developments and operating performance.
Our speakers today will be our Chairman and CEO Don Brandt and our CFO Jim Hatfield.
Jeff Guldner APS's Senior Vice President of Public Policy and Mark Schiavoni APS's Chief Operating Officer are also here with us.
First I need to cover a few details with you.
The slides that we will using are available on our Investor Relations Web site along with our earnings release and related information.
Note that the slides contain reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Today's comments and our slides contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and the Company assumes no obligation to update these statements.
Because actual results may differ materially from expectations we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements.
Our second-quarter Form 10-Q was filed this morning.
Please refer to that document for forward-looking statements cautionary language as well as the risk factors and MD&amp;A sections which identify risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those the contained in our disclosures.
A replay of this call will be available shortly on our Web site and it will also be available by telephone through August 6.
I'll now turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Paul and thank you all for joining us today.
Before Jim discusses the second-quarter results and our updated financial outlook I'll provide a few operational and regulatory developments.
Our operations continued to be strong this summer despite a couple of short-lived but powerful storms here in Arizona.
On the regulatory front we are focused on rate modernization and exploring technologies that may improve customer options while maintaining the reliability of our system.
The Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station had a solid first half of the year.
In early May Palo Verde completed the Unit 3 planned refueling outage in less than 30 days.
This is the third time that Palo Verde has completed a planned outage in less than 30 days and the first time for Unit 3.
We have two transmission projects to update you on.
First as we call it Hang 2 or the Hassayampa to North Gila 2 line a 500 KV transmission line was energized in late May as we planned.
This 112-mile line is an important project for reliability in southwest Arizona.
Second the Cal ISO announced the winner of the bidding process for the Delaney to Colorado River transmission line earlier this month.
Our bid submitted by TransCanyon was not selected.
The winning bid was cited by the Cal ISO as having the lowest revenue requirement of the five bids received.
We are analyzing the process to inform our bids on other projects but we were comfortable with the discipline our team demonstrated on the DCR bid.
We did not have CapEx for this project in our projections.
We will continue to pursue transmission development opportunities in the Western United States consistent with our strategy and look forward to future successes with this team and our counterparts at BHE US transmission.
Solar also continues to be an important area of investment and research.
Our utility scale program AZ Sun has two 10-megawatt projects in the Phoenix metropolitan area that are expected online in the third quarter.
These two projects will bring the program total to 170 megawatts.
Our APS solar partner program where APS will be installing and owning residential rooftop solar on 1 500 homes equal to 10 megawatts is now being rolled out.
We had our first installation earlier this month completed by one of the local Arizona installers who is also a member of the Arizona Solar Deployment Alliance.
Our team continues to sign up customers on the selected feeders we've chosen for this program.
This innovative program allows us to conduct research in collaboration with EPRI the Electric Power Research Institute on maximizing the efficiency and effectiveness of distributed solar generation and its interaction with the grid.
Our understanding in this area will better inform our efforts to create a modernized rate structure tailored to our customers' energy needs.
On a related note we are in the early stages of a 200-home rate study intended to provide insights on how solar storage and other technologies interact with demand rates aimed at reducing electricity used during peak periods.
Similar to our 10-megawatt program we will work with local Arizona installers on this program.
APS will own 75 of the systems while another 125 systems will be customer-owned with those customers receiving an incentive for their participation in the research project.
This is an exciting new program that will allow us to realize several benefits.
First customers can take charge of their energy envelope by learning how to manage their energy use during peak times.
Next local installers can remain viable in our economy and evolve as the market and new technologies evolve.
And here at APS we can better learn how to manage these advanced technologies and the demands they place on our system all of which will enable us to continue to safely provide our customers with the reliable electricity they've come to expect.
Both of these programs are leading edge in our industry and will be the first time a utility has had full control of a large number of advanced inverters in the field to perform testing.
APS is partnering with several providers to drive this technology in a direction that makes it easier to integrate and results in greater benefits for both customers and grid reliability.
On a related note in the recent JD Power residential survey APS improved its score in all six of the study's categories and ranked in the top quartile among 54 large investor-owned utilities.
On the regulatory front we're focused on advocating for rate modernization and laying the groundwork for our rate case filing which we still expect to file next year.
Rate design continues to be an important priority across the country.
Other Arizona utilities have made filings to modernize their rates and California has taken steps to begin modernizing their rate structure.
UniSource Electric followed a rate application on May 5 which includes several proposed changes to rate design in line with what we have advocated for and similar to what Salt River Project implemented this past spring.
Tucson Electric and Trico are expected to file a rate application later this year so both of them recently withdrew their net metering specific filings.
The proceedings at each of these companies will be interesting to monitor; however our grid access charge filing is based on a precedent we have from the 2013 net metering decision.
Since then we have seen steady growth in rooftop solar applications and installations with May and June showing record levels.
Our proposal would not fully resolve the cost shift but rather is intended to be an interim solution until the issue is more fully addressed in the next rate case.
Other components of the future rate design would include use of the demand charge on a broader scale and sending better price signals to customers by modifying the time of use rate structure.
Let me conclude by saying we're excited about the opportunities ahead for our customers our employees and our shareholders.
We have a clear investment plan which gives me confidence in our rate base growth.
Given the unique strength of our balance sheet we are well-positioned to execute on our plan and also return capital to shareholders in a predictable and sustainable manner.
I'll now turn the call over to Jim.
Thank you Don.
The topics I will cover today include a discussion of our second-quarter financial results an update on the Arizona economy and a review of our financial outlook.
Slide 3 summarizes our GAAP net income and ongoing earnings.
For the second quarter of 2015 we reported consolidated ongoing earnings of $123 million or $1.10 per share compared with ongoing earnings of $132 million or $1.19 per share for the second quarter of 2014.
Slide 4 outlines the variances in our quarterly ongoing earnings per share.
I'll highlight a few of the more significant drivers.
Lower gross margin decreased earnings by $0.02 per share.
I'll cover the drivers of our gross margin variance on the next slide.
Higher depreciation and amortization expenses decreased earnings by $0.07 per share.
Similar to the first quarter this variance includes the absence of the 2014 Four Corners cost deferrals and related 2015 amortization of the deferrals and costs associated with the acquisition price.
G&amp;A expenses were also higher due to additional plant in service.
Lower interest expense net of AFUDC benefited earnings by $0.04 per share.
The decrease largely reflects reduced interest charges resulting from refinancing long-term debt at a lower rate.
There is not an operations and maintenance expense variance on this slide since it is flat year-over-year as higher generation expenses primarily due to the effects of planned maintenance were offset by lower employee benefit costs.
Turning to Slide 5 I'll cover a few of the key components of net decrease of $0.02 in our gross margin.
Weather-normalized retail kilowatt hour sales after the effects of energy efficiency customer conservation and distributed generation increased 0.3% in the second quarter of 2015 versus 2014 although the earnings impact was immaterial.
Collectively the adjuster mechanisms continued to add incremental growth to our gross margin as designed contributing $0.10 per share primarily to the Four Corners adjuster that went into effect on January 1.
Offsetting Four Corners expenses are included in the other drivers primarily D&amp;A which I mentioned earlier.
The effect of weather variations decreased earnings by $0.06 per share.
This year's second quarter was milder or less favorable than normal while the second quarter of 2014 was warmer or more favorable compared to normal conditions.
In total for the quarter cooling degree days on an 80-degree base were on par with normal conditions but this one statistic does not do justice to the variance in daily weather we experienced throughout the quarter.
In particular the entire month of May and the first half of June were quite mild followed by a snap to high temperatures in the second half of June.
While we saw usage behavior very much in line with expectations once the hot weather arrived in mid-June prior to that period weather-sensitive usage remained well below where our models would have predicted an indication that our customers took advantage of the mild conditions to essentially not use much air conditioning at all.
With 21 days in May below 95 degrees for the high temperature and most overnight lows in the low 70s or 60s the typical heat buildup we would expect to see did not materialize and allowed customers to ignore a handful of warm days that did occur during the month.
The net effect of lower transmission revenues decreased quarterly results by $0.04 driven by a formula rate true-up in the second quarter of this year included in our annual filing in May.
We anticipate transmission revenues will be a positive driver for the full year.
As a reminder both the O&amp;M and gross margin variances exclude expenses related to the renewable energy standard.
Energy efficiency and similar regulatory programs all of which are offset by comparable revenue amounts under adjustment mechanisms.
Also the impacts of our non-controlling interest for the Palo Verde lease extensions are treated in a similar manner.
The drivers I discussed exclude these items so there was no net impact on second-quarter results.
Slide 6 presents a look at the Arizona economy and our fundamental growth outlook.
Arizona's economy continues to grow much like it has in the past several quarters.
Job growth in the second quarter in Arizona in the Phoenix Metro area remain data were above the national average as they have for 14 of the last 16 quarters.
As seen in the lower right-hand side of slide 6 Arizona added jobs at a 2.2% year-over-year rate.
For the first six months of 2015 Arizona has added jobs at the fastest rate since the first half of 2007.
As I've mentioned before business services healthcare tourism and consumer services are the sectors with the strongest job growth.
Each of these sectors is adding jobs at a rate of between 3% and 7% over the prior year and is helping to fuel continued demand for office and retail space in metro Phoenix and elsewhere.
Absorption of vacant office space in Metro Phoenix has averaged between two million and three million square feet per year since 2011 and similarly absorption of vacant retail space has run at about two million square feet per year.
As seen in the upper right-hand side of Slide 6 vacancy rates in these sectors continue to work their way down from their highs in 2010 and new investment activity in these sectors has picked up.
Almost four million square feet of office space is currently under construction virtually all of which is scheduled to come online in late 2015 or 2016.
A multi-building development by State Farm Insurance at Tempe Town Lake accounts for half of this activity.
At only half a million square feet retail construction can be considered soft at the moment but with the vacancy rate below 8% in several sub-regions within the metro area and strengthening single-family home market we expect retail construction to accelerate in the coming quarters.
Finally as I have described before the industrial building sector remains a source of strength for the Valley.
Over the last couple of years the amount of new industrial space added to the market has ranged from four million to eight million square feet per year all of which has been absorbed.
At 11% the industrial vacancy rate is at its lowest level since the beginning of 2008.
Only two million square feet of industrial space is under construction currently so we fully expect industrial vacancies to continue to decline and motivate additional construction in the coming quarters.
Turning to the residential sector metro Phoenix housing permits were relatively flat for the first six months of 2015 on a year-over-year basis.
However there were some sizable shift between the single-family and multi-family sectors.
Single-family sales and permit activity were up about 35% over the prior year while new development in the apartment sector slowed considerably.
Our expectation for year-end housing market permit activity can be seen in the panel at lower left.
The dynamics we are seeing in the residential housing market today are influenced by incredibly tight vacancy levels in apartments rapidly increasing apartment role rates continued low interest rates maintaining a higher level of single-family home affordability and the expiration of the mortgage blackout period for the first substantial wave of foreclosed homeowners.
Back in 2008 37 000 homeowners lost their homes to foreclosure in metro Phoenix alone.
In 2009 43 000 homes were foreclosed upon.
After seven years these families will now have much more accessibility to owning a home while homes remain quite affordable.
In addition to the favorable trends in job growth and the prospects for new construction Arizona consumers are also participating in the recovery.
Real consumer spending on retail and restaurant and bar sales increased by 10% in the second quarter the best rate in 10 years.
Purchases were led by home and garden sector and new auto sales.
Steady income growth improving consumer confidence and lower gas prices are all contributors to this most recent surge.
In summary we can see continued healthy job growth especially in certain sectors providing the momentum for absorption of commercial space in vacant housing which in turn is providing for an environment of increased investment and new development.
As I have mentioned before Arizona and metro Phoenix remain attractive places to live and do business especially as it is positioned relative to the high-cost California market.
We expect 2015 to be better than 2014 in terms of job growth income growth consumer spending and new construction.
Reflecting the steady improvement in economic conditions APS's retail customer base grew 1.2% compared with the second quarter last year.
We expect that this growth rate will gradually accelerate in response to the economic growth trends I just discussed.
Importantly the long-term fundamentals supporting future population job growth and economic development in Arizona appear to be in place.
Slide 7 outlines our financing activities.
Our balance sheet continues to be one of the strongest in the industry.
We are now rated A-minus or better at all three rating agencies.
In May Fitch announced its upgrade to APS's senior unsecured rating to A from A-minus as well as similar upgrades to Pinnacle West and APS's corporate credit rating.
Additionally in June Moody's upgraded APS's senior unsecured and corporate ratings to A2 and Pinnacle West's corporate credit rating to A3.
In connection with these rating actions the rating agencies cited the Company's strong financial and credit profile as well as increasingly constructive and supportive regulatory environment in Arizona.
In terms of our recent financings on May 19 APS issued $300 million of 10-year 3.15% senior unsecured notes.
The proceeds from this sale were used to refinance the $300 million 4.65% May maturity.
Also in May APS purchased all $32 million of the Maricopa County 2009 Series B Pollution Control Bonds which we may later remarket.
Overall liquidity remains very strong.
At the end of the second quarter the parent Company had no short-term debt outstanding and APS had $158 million of commercial paper outstanding.
Finally I will review our earnings guidance and financial outlook.
We continued to expect Pinnacle West's consolidated ongoing earnings for 2015 will be in the range of $3.75 to $3.95 per share.
A complete list of factors and assumptions underlying our guidance is included on Slide 8.
The adjuster mechanisms and cost management remain important drivers particularly in the second half of the year.
We have maintained our earnings per share guidance but adjusted certain line items primarily due to what we have realized year-to-date for gross margin and interest savings while moving planned coal unit outage from 2015 into 2016.
Our guidance assumes normal weather.
Our rate base growth outlook remains 6% to 7% through 2018 and we continue to forecast that we will not need additional equity until 2017 at the earliest.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we'll now take questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Shahriar Pourreza Guggenheim Partners.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning Shahriar.
On the rate design changes that you're seeking how should we think about that from a timing perspective with a potential filing for GRC next year? And is there an opportunity to reach a conclusion with the rate design prior to you filing? This is Jeff.
So part of the discussion that has happened out here is when you make a more structural change in rate design to be more sustainable you do that in a general rate case filing.
And so that would be part of normally you go through revenue requirement phase and then rate design is the second phase of the filing.
And so I think that's what we're expecting to happen right now.
Next question The next question is from Dan Eggers Credit Suisse Hey.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Dan.
Hey just on the housing outlook and the home builders have been pretty constructive on the Phoenix market what do you think is the follow-through if you look at what's queuing up for this year and for next year? Is that having an effect on moving up the distribution CapEx for next year just you're seeing more pull through or what's the linkage of those two right now? We're not Dan seeing a big increase in distribution spend currently as we are queuing up for the market but keep in mind that there are lots out there that are already improved meaning they have basic services already installed.
We think that the beginning of the customer growth will take relatively less capital although as the inventory builds we will have to move up distribution capital and hope to capture as much of that in the next rate case as we can.
Okay.
And on guidance for this year that's taking -- that's excluding the $0.09 of negative weather that you have incurred this year.
Is that correct? In terms of the guidance for this year I really see four key elements of driving growth in the second half.
First of all our adjuster mechanisms so we'll see a higher benefit year-over-year from LFCR.
Obviously Four Corners came in this year Arizona Sun as we complete projects in metro Phoenix and then the TCA will be higher as we look toward accruing a FY16 filing.
We expect to see positive usage in the second half year over year.
We are as I said in my remarks we have moved a fossil outage so we expect O&amp;M to be down as we have less planned maintenance in the fossil fleet this year.
And then we expect the interest savings to continue throughout the year.
So that's really what's driving the second half of the year.
In terms of weather I'd say this.
If you remember 2011 we were $30 million other under on weather in the second quarter.
We reduced guidance and we made it all back in the third quarter.
So weather is what it is.
We'll continue to manage those factors I just mentioned.
Okay.
Got it.
Jim can you explain the transmission adjustment the $0.04 negative? What caused that true-up to go negative on you this year? Well I think if you remember as we file every year at FERC we plan what the next fiscal year is and we can accruing that increase as we're earning it throughout the year.
The big issue in the May true up was really the late passage of the deferred tax which reduced rate base and reduced our ask so that was a catch-up adjustment.
Every year we've had catch-up adjustments most of the time they're very minimal.
This just happened to be a bigger adjustment than we normally have.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you guys.
The next question is from Julien Dumoulin-Smith UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Dan.
I suppose first question just in terms of the grid access charge what kind of a decision are we looking for here? Are we going to get tangible numbers? A - Jeff Guldner Julian this is Jeff.
The next step in that proceeding is going to be a recommended opinion order from the administrative law judge.
And the issue that's teed up right now is procedural.
So it's do we move forward with a substantive proceeding on increasing the grid access charge from its current level or do we wait until the next rate case and do it through rate design? And so we haven't seen we're expecting it soon but we haven't seen anything yet from the judge.
Got it.
All right.
Excellent.
And second moving back to transmission here for a second I'd be curious what kind of complementary opportunities do you see this latest large-scale line back to California as well as can you elaborate a little bit more on the other opportunities inside the context of your partnership here in the Western US that you're evaluating? I would comment on pipeline in terms of our partnership with Berkshire.
Much like DCR which we're very disappointed we didn't win after working four years on that development on that subject I would say that us and our partners are very proud of our disciplined approach but there's other opportunities in the pipeline much like DCR.
DCR was an economic project.
Much of the other we're pursuing at this point will be reliability type projects.
And so I would say our partnership continues and we're pursuing other types of transactions.
Got it.
Are there any complementary opportunities arising out of DCR? Not for us.
No.
Okay.
Great.
And then lastly on the solar front you all have obviously had a pilot going on for a little bit here.
I'd be curious either outside of the context for a rate case or in the context of the subsequent rate case is there a thought to scaling up your pilot to a full-scale deployment of a rooftop program at APS? We'll be looking at that as this pilot program folds out over the next couple months.
Certainly a potential opportunity.
Got it.
Although presumably that would necessarily need to be addressed in any more formal filing? IE the rate case? Not necessarily.
We'll get to that when we get to it.
Okay.
All right.
I won't belabor the point.
Thank you very much.
The next question is from Greg Gordon Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks.
A couple of my questions have been answered.
I just had a few more.
I just wanted to get a clarification the earnings guidance Dan asked a question Eggers asked the question on earnings guidance.
Your earnings guidance reflects what's happened with the weather year-to-date and you still expect to be inside your guidance range; correct? Correct.
Okay.
The second question was just looking at the detailed slide on page 16 of your CapEx forecast it moves around every quarter and it's moved around a little bit again this quarter and distribution CapEx has moved and traditional generation CapEx has moved up a bit in 2016.
Can you comment as to -- I'm sorry distribution has moved up and generation has moved down a bit.
Can you comment on whether that's a pull forward or whether that's other factors? Distribution we pulled about -- a few million dollars from distribution into 2016 from 2017 and with the Ocotillo being delayed a year we pushed back a little generation to 2017.
All in all I think if you look and those all up the projection for the three years has not changed.
It's really been cash flow between years.
Right.
Great.
And then on cost profile notwithstanding just the deferral of an outage into next year from this year you still have a bunch of programs in place to try to keep O&amp;M flat relative to kilowatt hour sales growth.
Correct? So if you were to have some fluctuation either up or down in expected economic demand for power you feel like you have the ability to flex your O&amp;M to maintain your margins? Yes we do Greg.
And then finally going into next year and up until the next base rate case is finalized you still do have some significant cost saves that you'll be able to capture from the Palo Verde lease refinancing; correct? Right.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Greg.
We have a question from Charles Fishman Morningstar.
Hi Thanks Don you mentioned the UNS Tucson filing.
How good of a proxy is that for any kind of change in rate design? As far as similarities of solar penetration and things like that? I don't think it's a very good proxy.
Their service territories are very much different.
The sources of generation and traditionally the rate design has been significantly different in Tucson than across APS.
Jeff may be able to add a little more color to that.
Charles this is Jeff.
Remember we've got about half our customers on time use rates and we're also one of the only utilities in the country that has a significant amount of residential customers on a demand rate and so we've got about 10% of our customers today on a residential demand rate with time of use.
And so we certainly are going to be involved in the proceeding in Tucson and watching that but we have historically had different rate structures than both TEP and SRP.
And so we'll watch it and we'll see if -- there's obviously procedural things we'll want to be paying attention to and conceptual stuff that we'll be talking about.
Okay.
Thanks.
That saves me some work looking at it.
That's it.
We have a question from Ali Agha SunTrust.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
First off I just wanted to clarify the timing on the interim fixed charge that you have applied for.
I think I heard you say ALJ is to opine on just the logistics of when that should be looked at.
I know you'd asked for an August implementation so is that not realistic now or how should we look at the sequence of timing? Ali it's Jeff.
Originally we had asked for an August implementation date.
Now the process would be if the ALJ issues a recommended decision that says -- and the commission decides based on that decision the ALJ will issue a proposed decision the commission will presumably hear it at an open meeting and then the decision would be if you move forward you're going to have a proceeding after that.
So that's going to push it into later in the year at least.
Okay.
Got it.
Separately Jim if you look at your results on an LTM basis what's the earned ROE you'd be earning right now based on the calculation the way you look at ROE? Weather normalized would be in excess of 9.5%.
Okay.
But the weather impact in last couple of quarters will pull it down? Yes.
But again you have to weather normalize the quarters.
In both the first two years of this year and the last two quarters of this year and last two quarters of last year.
Right.
Okay.
And then you had mentioned that you expect as you go through this year and beyond customer growth usage patterns et cetera to pick up.
So far as you've been looking at the data is there following that pattern looking in July and into the rest of the year as well I think 0% to 1% from a weather-normalized load growth perspective you were looking at for electric sales any more granularity in that? Should we think of midpoint of that or how is it's trending as you're looking for the rest of the year? Well as we build our forecast for 2015 we expected we'd see acceleration of customer growth and sales growth throughout the year.
So as we look to the second half of the year we would expect sales growth to be higher than the first half of the year.
And what materializes we'll wait and see but we feel pretty confident that we'll be between 0% and 1% sales growth.
Okay.
And then last question I know you had mentioned it in your comments as well in terms of equity 2017 at the earliest.
So is that going to be driven more by credit matrices and liquidity profile as opposed to the regulatory needs that you've said before you don't need to equitize for the rate case filing? What would be the trigger in your mind when it's the appropriate time to raise new equity? We'll certainly look at our credit metrics.
And we'll look at where we are in the regulatory cycle obviously with the rate case filing in 2016.
But we're sitting here today with an equity ratio at APS of about 56%.
Very strong balance sheet so we have a lot of flexibility in financing our CapEx program with long-term debt.
All right.
So given that reiterating you said before you don't need any equity for the timing around the rate case basically? Correct.
Thank you.
The next question is from Steve Fleishman Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead sir.
Just wanted to clarify if you look at your slide on the factors and guidance for 2015 so it looks like you lowered gross margin $30 million versus last quarter for the year.
You to the positive lowered O&amp;M by $20 million and to the positive lowered interest by $20 million.
The $30 million on lower margin is that just the weather impact year to date? It's weather.
It's also transmission.
And keep in mind we would have had originally all of the Four Corners rate increase that we got about $8 million less so we incorporated that in this quarter as well.
Okay.
And then the lower O&amp;M of $20 million is that pretty much the delay in the outage to 2016? That's correct.
And then the interest savings is that just all refinancing benefits? Yes.
We've realized significant interest savings in the first half of the year net of AFUDC.
So we expect that to continue.
Okay.
And net interest savings is an ongoing benefit? Until the next rate case.
Okay.
Got it.
That was it.
Thank you.
The next question is from Michael Lapides Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead sir.
Hey guys.
Congrats on a pretty good quarter.
Real quickly looking at the transmission rate change I'm looking at Slide 17 that $18 million that basically the best way to think about that is seven months of that in 2015 five months of that in 2016 but did you actually book the charge for all of that in this quarter or will it flow through from an income statement impact over the next 11 months? We booked the true-up adjustment in May.
So I would think of it more as a one-time.
In that regard it will flow-through to FY16 but we're also booking on top of that reduction the increase we expect to file in FY'16.
So net-net it's a positive for us.
I hate to respond this way but I'm totally confused.
Okay.
What we'll do we'll take it off line and we'll have Paul call you after the call and walk you through the timing of our PPA.
That sounds fine.
One other item.
Any update I know you've talked at length about the need for Ocotillo.
But any update at all on either a process for a need for other gas-fired generation whether it would be under PPA or whether it would be something you would actually go out in the market and buy and own if you could get it at an attractive price or do you feel that once Ocotillo's done you're good through the end of the decade? We have a couple of significant PPAs rolling off by 2020.
We have the 515 megawatts at Gila River in 2016.
And then we have a toll on Arlington through the summer of 2019.
Obviously we'll have to -- we'll look at how we replace those that capacity in the context of our reserve margin and we feel like we have great optionality as we move forward as it relates to a PPA or some other outcome.
Do you have to file and go through an RFP process to either replace either the Gila or the Arlington PPA? No.
So we don't follow the California process.
That's not done here.
We do an IRP so there's an IRP where we talk about it.
And then we follow essentially best practices when we're out doing procurement of power resources.
But it's not like it's strictly regulated.
It's like the California process.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks.
I'll follow up with Paul off-line.
Much appreciated.
The next question is from Jim Von Riesling Mizuho.
Hey guys good afternoon.
Hi Jim.
Hey two quick questions.
The first one is could you just talk about the cash flow impact an extension of bonus depreciation might have on you? So what passed the Senate which would be a two-year extension is approximately $200 million of cash and you can think of about $100 million a year that we would realize from the extension of bonus depreciation.
Fair enough.
And then second question is given the fact that the interest expense is coming down so much net of AFUDC where do you think your embedded cost of debt is going to be at the end of the year? I don't know.
It will be roughly in the 5% range.
Down from high-5s in the last case.
Okay.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
The next question is from Paul Patterson Glenrock Associates.
Hi.
Good morning.
Most of my stuff has been asked and answered but I want to follow up on a few things.
One was on Ali's question about the sales growth.
I understood what you guys said about 2015 but I'm wondering with this 0.5% to 1.5% through 2017 as being a potential range has that changed at all? It has not changed from the prior guidance.
Obviously this year it's 0% to 1% 0.5% to 1.5% by definition means just acceleration through 2017 of growth.
Okay.
So what we've seen in terms of the weakness so far you don't think that's going to -- there hasn't been any change in terms of where you might see that range? No.
Okay.
And then on the DCR it sounded that you were talking about the potential for reliability projects.
But that seemed to indicate that perhaps because of your experience and I just want to check on this that you're not perhaps interested in the kind of opportunity that DCR had.
And I'm just wondering if you could talk about what the takeaways from this process have been.
Is it just basically Abengoa and Starwood? What would you say was their competitive advantage was it simply cost of capital? What do you think is the dynamics in that if you could share with us your thoughts about any… I think the Cal ISO cited that Abengoa Starwood partnership would have the lowest revenue requirement over the life of the project.
It's simply a cost and I guess as we look at what we did in the four years of development we're very comfortable with our process and our bid.
And we are not going to go out and buy projects just for the sake of buying projects.
We're going to continue to focus on earning a strong return on a project that we can comfortably site and build in the timeframe and a dollar amount we bid.
I understand but I guess what I'm trying to understand I mean I saw the Cal ISO report.
What would you say was their competitive advantage? Obviously they came in at a lower cost but is that because their return requirement you think is less or do you think in general that there was some deal in terms of the ability to construct these things or what have you? I'm just trying to get a sense as to what the competitive environment is and whether what you saw happen there and it's not just them there are other competitors whether you think that isn't going to be an area of interest going forward in general? Do you follow what I'm saying or is there something unique to that situation? This is Mark Schiavoni.
To answer your last question first no we're open to all projects.
This is the first one that's gone through this type of process.
So there's things to learn as a result of what happened not just for us but there were five finalists as you may be aware of.
And until we can look at the structure of what they did it's very hard for us to sit here and really try to answer your first question as far as what did they do that we didn't do or should be doing? That will come in due time.
We've had conversations with Cal ISO.
We've opened that door.
We want to learn from it.
And as Jim said we're not going to increase our risk just to get a project.
We're going to do things the way we've always done it measured risk.
And then bids for it for whether it's reliability or economic.
It really doesn't matter to us.
And our partner feels the same way.
So we're confident that we'll continue to play in this space for the near-term.
Okay.
That's great.
I thought maybe you guys had more insight on what was going on there than I did.
So I appreciate that.
We'll find out maybe more later.
Thanks.
Thanks.
This is Don.
Let me underscore what Mark said here both we and our partner at Berkshire are very disciplined in this approach.
And we're here to make thoughtful investment decisions and not to buy a project.
And this is one of many to come.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Mr.
Mountain at this time there are no further questions.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to you.
Okay.
Thank you everyone.
That concludes our call and we'll talk to you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's teleconference.
Your may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2015 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Paul Mountain Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you sir you may begin.
Thank you Christine.
I would like to thank everyone for participating in this conference call and Webcast to review our third quarter 2015 earnings recent developments and operating performance.
Our speakers today will be our Chairman and CEO Don Brandt and our CFO Jim Hatfield.
Jeff Guldner APS's Senior Vice President of Public Policy and Mark Schiavoni APS's Chief Operating Officer are also here with us.
First I need to cover a few details with you.
The slides that we will using are available on our Investor Relations Web site along with our earnings release and related information.
Note that the slides contain reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Today's comments and our slides contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and the Company assumes no obligation to update these statements.
Because actual results may differ materially from expectations we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements.
Our third quarter Form 10-Q was filed this morning.
Please refer to that document for forward-looking statements cautionary language as well as the risk factors and MD&amp;A sections which identify risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in our disclosures.
A replay of this call will be available shortly on our Web site for the next 30 days.
It will also be available by telephone through November 6th.
I'll now turn the call over to Don.
Thank you Paul and thank you all for joining us today.
Pinnacle West delivered a solid quarter with several financial and operational highlights keeping us on pace with our guidance for the year and setting us up well for next year.
The Board also approved the 5% dividend increase last week effective with the December dividend payment continuing the predictable return of capital to our shareholders.
Jim will discuss the financial results and guidance.
Our operations team did an excellent job maintaining the fleet and the electrical grid again this summer.
The Palo Verde Nuclear Generation Station performed well.
Unit 2 entered its planned refilling outage on October 10th this outage marks an important milestone.
It represents the completion of flex equipment installation at all three units.
Flex addresses one of the main safety challenges at Fukushima the loss of cooling capability and electrical power resulting from a severe event.
Flex short for diverse and flexible mitigation strategies is an industry wide initiative with site specific applicability it relies on portable equipment to protect against even the most unlikely scenarios.
The transmission distribution and customer service teams also performed well.
Similar to last year we had a series of monsoon storms over the last few months 50 000 customers were without power during the worse storm.
The vast majority were back on within 24 hours.
Due to the storm damage our crones replaced 485 pools nearly twice a number from the 2014 storm season.
August was particularly hot this year.
We hit our 2015 load peak on Saturday August 15th after temperatures hit over 114 degrees for three consecutive days.
This is the first time in modern era with air-conditioning that our peak has been on a Saturday.
One data point worth noting is that when our customers were using the most energy at around 5 pm that day rooftop solar on our system was producing only 38% of its capacity supplying 75 megawatts of the 7 031 megawatt load since rooftop solar peaks around noon.
However in stark contrast utility scale solar was producing 80% of its capacity supplying 140 megawatts of the load because most utilities scaled panels are on trackers that move with the sun.
Just a couple of hours later when our system load was still high rooftop solar production was at zero and the only solar production was coming from Solana our concentrated solar facility with thermal storage capabilities.
This scenario was not unique to our peak lower day and highlights the importance of the electric grid at all hours of the day.
Along with a robust and modern grid modernizing the rate structure is a necessary priority for which we have been advocating.
Let me provide some perspective on how our recent regulatory fillings have evolved.
Our priority remains clear we want to continue the dialogue on rate design with the objective of thoughtfully evaluating these policy issues ahead of the rate case application we plan to file in June of next year.
The grid access towards filling we made on April 2nd was designed to take another step in this rate transition by increasing the fixed charge to $3 per KW or about $21 per month per solar customer.
In August the Arizona Corporation Commission ordered to move forward with an evidentiary hearing on the issue the exact scope and timing of that process was to be determined they has another meeting.
Subsequent to that decision we saw an unprecedented display of political theatre and character attacks by the rooftop solar lobby aimed at paralyzing the commission.
Given the backdrop we offered an alternative to the commission in September to forgo of the request to increase the grid access charge and exchange for a more narrow hearing on the cost to serve customers with and without solar.
In connection with this alternative we filed a summary of a recently concluded cost to service study on October 8th.
This study used a methodology that has been tried tested and validated in utility proceeding across the country using actual verifiable data.
It concluded that each month APS incurs $67 to serve solar customers that those customers do not pay.
This analysis credit solar customers for the measurable cost that APS avoids when a customer installs rooftop solar primarily reduce fuel costs.
The commission discussed how to proceed at the open meeting last week.
In the end they wanted to move forward with a single generic docket that will investigate a both the cost to service issue raised by APS and the value of solar.
The procedural calendar would be determined soon by the commission staff.
Although there has been a lot of noise around this issue we believe moving forward is critical and we will continue to work with the commission and key stakeholders in this proceeding.
In addition to the regulatory proceedings we are also learning about the customer and grid impacts through our solar partner rooftop solar program.
Our understanding in this area will better inform our efforts to create a modernized rate structure tailored to our customers’ energy needs.
We've had a lot of interest in the process of signing up customers and installing rooftop systems.
Let me know provide an update on a few other items related to our generation portfolio.
Our utility scale program AZ Sun has two 10-megawatt projects in the Phoenix metro area come on line in September bringing the total program total to 170 megawatts.
We will access a need for more utility scale solar through our resource planning process.
We also retired Cholla unit 2 one of our core units as of October 1st in line with our announcement a year ago as part of a broader environmental plan for the Cholla site.
Let me conclude by saying that we remain focused on delivering on our financial and operational commitments.
We have a busy calendar over the next couple of years while the state addresses rate design modernization and we prepare for our rate case filling.
We will remain steadfast to find solutions that benefit all of our customers.
I'll now turn the call over to Jim.
Thank you Don and welcome everybody.
We had a solid third quarter as we benefitted from our continued cost management efforts and improvement in our customer sales.
Today I'll discuss the details of our third quarter financial results provide an update on the Arizona economy and review our financial outlook including introducing 2016 guidance.
Slide 3 summarizes our GAAP net income and ongoing earnings.
For the third quarter of 2015 we reported consolidated ongoing earnings of $357 million or $2.30 per share compared with ongoing earnings of $244 million or $2.20 per share for the third quarter of 2014.
Slide 4 outlines the variances in our quarterly ongoing earnings per share.
I'll highlight two primary drivers.
Higher gross margin increased earnings by $0.28 per share.
I'll cover the drivers of our gross margin variance on the next slide.
Going the other way higher depreciation and amortization expenses decreased earnings by $0.12 per share.
Similar to the first half of this year the variance includes the absence of the 2014 Four Corners cost deferrals and related 2015 amortization of the deferrals and cost associated with the acquisition.
D&amp;A expenses were also higher due to additional plant service.
Turning to Slide 5 I will cover a few of the key components of the net increase of $0.28 in gross margin.
Higher usage by APS customers compared to the third quarter a year ago contributed $0.08 per share.
Weather normalized retail kilowatt hour sales after the effects of energy efficiency customer conservation and distributed generation increased 2.1% in the third quarter of 2015 versus 2014.
Collectively the adjustment mechanism is continuing to add incremental growth to our gross margin as designed contributing $0.17 per share primarily the Four Corners adjuster that went into effect on January 1.
Offsetting Four Corners’ expenses are included in the other drivers primarily D&amp;A which I mentioned earlier.
The effect of weather variations increased earnings by $0.04 per share.
This year's third quarter was warmer or more favorable than normal while the third quarter of 2014 was milder or less favorable compared to normal conditions.
As Don mentioned August was particularly hot this year or for the first time since we added in Arkansas -- we hit our peak on a weekend.
As a reminder both the O&amp;M and gross margin variances exclude expenses related to the renewable energy standard energy efficiency and similar regulatory programs all of which are offset by comparable revenue amounts under adjustment mechanism.
Slide 6 presents a look at the Arizona economy and our fundamental growth outlook.
Arizona's economy continues to grow much like it has in the past several quarters.
Job growth in the third quarter in the Phoenix Metro area remained above the national average as they have for the past 17 quarters.
As seen in the upper panel of Slide 6 Metro Phoenix added jobs at a 2.8% year-over-year rate.
This job growth is broad-based with the construction healthcare tourism financial activity business services and consumer service sectors each adding jobs at a rate above 3%.
Growth in consumer spending remains robust and expectations are improving for the housing market.
Our expectation for the Metro Phoenix housing permits could be seen in the lower panel on Slide 6.
The housing market is on track to record its best year since 2007 for both total permits and the single-family sector by itself.
Total permits are up more than 12% this year and notably single family permit activity is up over 40%.
Permit activity in the third quarter was the highest we’ve seen since the middle of 2007 and homeowners continue to report strong traffic in their sales offices.
In summary Metro Phoenix economy did grow fairly and is positioned for stronger growth in the next couple of years as it will act on the overbilled real estate market receipts into the past.
As I have mentioned before Arizona and Metro Phoenix remain attractive places to live and do business especially as it is situated relative to the high-cost California market.
2015 is turning out to be better than 2014 in terms of job growth income growth consumer spending and new construction.
And we expect 2016 to be better than 2015.
Reflecting the steady improvement in the economic conditions APS's retail customer base grew 1.3% compared with the third quarter of last year.
We expect that this growth rate will gradually accelerate in response to economic growth trends I just discussed.
Importantly the long-term fundamentals supporting future population job growth and economic development in Arizona appear to be in place.
Finally I will review our earnings guidance and financial outlook.
We continue to expect Pinnacle West's consolidated ongoing earnings for 2015 will be in the lower half of the range of $3.75 to $3.95 per share based on the negative effects of weather through September.
Year-to-date unfavorable weather through September has impacted earnings by approximately $0.08 per share versus normal conditions.
We adjusted our 2015 customer growth down slightly to 1% to 2% from 1.5% to 2.5% although our sales outlook hasn’t changed.
We are introducing 2016 ongoing guidance of $3.90 to $4.10 per share which assumes the normal weather.
The adjustment mechanics particularly transmission and LFCR along with modest sales growth are the key growth margin drivers.
O&amp;M is above trend in 2016 however non-outage O&amp;M spending remains flat in 2016 compared to 2015 with planned possible outages representing the increase year-over-year.
This includes major planned outages at Four Corners and Cholla which occur roughly over six years.
Separately the new lease terms related to the Palo Verde waste plant at Unit 2 that take effect January 1 2015 offset plan and service impact and key depreciation and amortization relatively flat year-over-year.
A complete list of the factors and assumptions underlying our guidance is included in our slides.
Our rate based growth outlook remains 6% to 7% through 2018.
We've included our updated rate based slide in the appendix.
These estimates include bonus depreciation which we’re assuming will be extended for 2015 and 2016.
And we continue to forecast that we will not need additional equity until 2017 at the early.
Lastly as Don discussed the Board of Directors increased the indicated annual dividend last week by $0.12 per share or approximately 5% to $2.50 per share effective with the December payment.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we’ll now take questions.
Thank you.
We’ll now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Dan Eggers from Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
If we get to see an end of the 2016 guidance a little bit.
I guess first question is you go back from the 1.5% to 2.5% customer growth number given that reduction in inventory and revenue mix.
Is there enough things now are coming online for next year that you can actually hit that numbers you guys look out and see what’s getting built? We do Dan.
We see as we talk about home permits were up 78% in the August from the same month a year-ago.
We’re seeing sales up 32% in [indiscernible] so we’re seeing a lot of activity in that housing market.
And this is Don I refer you if you do a search on azcentral.com Web site for the Arizona Republic and just a story that appeared on the 21st of October I just take a selective quote out of that but over the past two years approximately 11 000 building permits for single-family new homes have been issued annually and he said the expectation is that the number will reach 16 000 by year's end.
And then on the O&amp;M cost side for next year.
The cost should be flat excluding the maintenance I guess what you said if we thought about what ’17 looks like how much of that extra maintenance gives us a way to just try and normalize that? Well don't think ’17 will be as big as ’16 and when we look for rate case purposes we use a average of five years or so so that all get blended out in the rate case.
The rate case will reflect that moving that with the ’17 numbers? Yes I mean we’ll get all of it because this is a sort of peak but we’ll get an average over several years as typically how they do it.
And then on the rate base forecast it includes another non depreciation act in the 18 rate case numbers now have a $400 million what you guys do with the bonus depreciation cash and the activation company and the equity? Easy to fund CapEx we’ll still be net negative cash from our fixed income securities to fund the CapEx but it does reduce our need.
It will reduce our need for debt financing.
Yes and we take bonus depreciations will be 70% of that reduction in CapEx the rest is really moving Ocotillo out to ’19 from ’18.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with Evercore.
Please proceed with your question.
My math shows that -- I think my math shows that on the updated rate case forecast that 390 to 410 basically should more or less reflect the 9.5% to 10% ROE band on parent equity in 2016? That’s correct right.
So yes that’s consistent with the way you thought about in the past? Correct.
So to the extend we lined up with the low-end or to high-end of that range thinking about the drivers on Page 10.
Obviously this year we’re more towards the lower half because weather was mild.
Is it fair to assume that the midpoint of your gross margin guidance range just assumes just a normal weather? Yes it includes normal weather as well as we've those adjuster mechanisms two things you -- the other thing you'll see from the gross margin perspective we've the negative transmission adjuster in 2015 which will have a positive next year.
So we get the cumulative effect of that as well.
I guess I'll step back and then ask higher level more open ended question.
What are the key two or three factors that would cause you to end up at 410 versus that would cause you to end up at 390 i.e.
high end of the range versus low end as you think about managing risk in ’16? I'll take the higher end of the guidance to reflect a little higher sales growth and we’re currently planning.
That would be the big driver.
Okay.
And you file a rate case when and how and when is the -- what's the statutory time limit for a decision? We will file June 1 of 2016 typically there was a 30 days efficiency and there is the last case we did in 10.5 we expect probably it will last goal longer with the rate design in there it's the statutory four month timeline but and Christmas around as you get days of the hearings and so on.
So the goal would be to have rates in place for the summer of ’17 but that could slip? Yes.
And the perfect word we will have it at July 1 what the issue in the case on rate design changes and so on that would be an optimistic scenario I think.
But isn’t that the reason why you are trying to get a lot of that discussion down now and the context of these proceedings that Don just discussed.
Exactly Greg.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
Don so do you want that the commission decided to have these hearings on the generic basis and I know you guys have pushed for them to be more specific and focused on the cost of service side and is there a concern that while they go through the generic process and then when the rate case comes you've got to go through this once again but with more specific numbers so at the end of the day how much realistically do you think this moves the ball forward given the generic measure of this discussion? I think it's a new advanced the ball will be dealing with the not just generic number but our numbers specifically as will be other participants and Jeff Guldner sitting here next to me I think can explain on that far a little bit.
Sure.
And I remember this they said their value has sold the dockets which was up there with obviously would be a new port on a generic the cost of service study that we did is specific with us and so one of the things you would get in the generic proceeding is still some discussion of how do you apply cost allocation factors how do you sort it out cost to service issue and result those and move forward in the rate case with the given the commissioners policy options that are available to cost from the value side and the more of that we can work through ahead of the rate case the more productive that's going to be when you get into the rate case process.
And then secondly as strong was good to see the growth in weather normalized sales pick up this quarter at 2.1%.
With customer growth at that 1.3% level was there anything specific to this quarter would the weather normalization not have worked perfectly the sense that your sales growth is actually greater than customer growth this quarter and normally as you said does that 50 to 100 basis point differential but you see so anything to explain why sales growth was strong than customer growth this quarter? I think the biggest thing Ali is sort of a weak comparison last year in the third quarter overall we have 1% sales growth year-to-date which would reflect the kind of customer growth we’re seeing currently.
I think a lot of that two part of our we look at the we have top solar and EDE and a lot of this been confident it's new and I think you are seeing a little more cost that consumer and those in the Phoenix marketplace.
I see okay.
And then on a sort of the LTM basis based on the way you guys calculate ROE and I know that's all book value when you talk about your targets.
Can you tell us what is that ROE that you want over the LTM basis? I haven’t calculated that I'll have to look at that.
Okay.
But to be clear on the ’16 outlook the range reflects at the lower end 9.5% again based on the book value calculation? Yes.
And the high-end would be 10.
Is that right? Yes.
Thank you.
Next question? Operator next question? Christine? We have lost connection from the host just one moment please.
Ladies and gentlemen I am sorry for the delay.
Our next question will come from the line of Michael Weinstein with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys.
Can you hear me okay? Hello? Oh! Boy.
Ladies and gentlemen please stand by your conference will resume momentarily.
Oh! Boy.
Ladies and gentlemen again please stand by your conference will resume momentarily.
Once again please stand by your conference will resume momentarily.
Gentlemen you are reconnected.
And your next question comes from the line of Michael Weinstein.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys.
Can you hear me okay? Hello? I am not hearing anybody operator.
Gentlemen you are connected.
Yes can you guys hear me okay? Yes.
Oh! There we go.
All right.
Okay.
So my question has to do with the guidance for 2015.
Just looking at you’ve reduced the retail customer growth a little bit by 0.5% but the sales volume is remaining the same.
So that would sort of indicate that there has been an improvement in terms of energy efficiency effects I guess less of an energy efficiency effect that you see in 2015.
However when you go forward to 2016 guidance you have an increase in the customer growth rate but still the same sales rate so that indicates the opposite.
Just wondering what’s going on with energy efficiencies and asset management side? I Michael would caution you to look at any quarter and try to extract anything out of quarters a quarter.
I think we are pleasantly surprised by the sales growth year-to-date.
I don’t think we necessarily expect laying that into ’16 guidance.
Okay.
And also just in terms of the rate cases filing.
Is it true you guys are going to have to file or you are going to have to make purchases of new generating assets before you file the case.
Is that right? We have no plans to purchase generation assets other than what we are billing at occupancy or which is a self built.
Okay so there is no potential for anything else fairly probably you can see now? No we have some PPAs and other things rolling off and we will go out next year for sort of all resources RFP for sometime later this -- probably later this decade then we will see what where get at that point but we’re ways off from new generation at this point.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Chin with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
So with the revised rate base numbers including bonus depreciation can you quantify out the impact of the bonus depreciation or give us some sense of how big that is relative to the prior forecast? Yes bonus depreciation we expect to be over the two years about $250 million.
We just think about that as ratably over those two years.
Okay excellent.
And then with regards to the revised bonus depreciation numbers can you give us an update on any potential needs for equity I would assume that it reduces that since you are able to take the bonus depreciation and use that for further deployment of capital.
But just revise us on what the equity financing needs are if any as we go to the next year? Yes well certainly the cash and bonus depreciation would minimize the need if we need anything we won't do anything until after we get that outcome and next rate case.
Okay great.
And then lastly just what risk do you think there could be under the more narrowly tailored generic proceeding.
Is it possible that any delays or extension of that proceeding could bleed into the timing of when you file the rate case? Is there a risk of the two issues kind of melting together? I guess it’s a little bit of a springboard question on earlier question I think that Ali asked? Brian it’s Jeff I don’t think it would affect the timing of the filing of the rate case.
One of the issues that came up in the discussion a little while ago was we've requested that the information push to get that aside us in the April timeframe was ahead in the case.
But the procedural conference is still coming out if that leaves over that wouldn't affect the filing once you file the case you've got a fairly lengthy litigation process.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Fishman with Morningstar.
Pleas proceed with your question.
If I could go back to the rate base growth once again 2018 the 400 million decline in generation and distribution that was bonus depreciation and the delay of Ocotillo the $200 million decline in transmission is that all bonus depreciation or there a project is been delayed or canceled that I have forgotten about? No we’re constantly on ongoing basis moving capital from year-to-year so there is nothing substantial in terms of delay in big projects or anything like that.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Very quickly you said you had 2.1% sales growth and that is after the impact of efficiency correct? Yes and distributors and origin.
What was the gross number? Little over three.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Sorry to beat a little bit of a dead horse just want to make sure I understand though.
Can you walk us through from your prior disclosures to today's flight deck the change in total expected rate basis for the forecast period and just two or three biggest drivers for that? There has been a lot 1C 2Cs and I want make sure I understand what’s going on here? Well about 70% of the change roughly is the impact of bonus depreciation and significant amount of the other is just moving Ocotillo from our end service date of ’18 to 2019.
And the total change is $400 million or greater number? About $4 million.
Second when we think about 2017 O&amp;M should we assume that it kind of gets back down in that year to something closer what you've guided to for 2015 or does it kind of stay at that elevated level that you're going to see next year but that you recovering you're expecting to get more recovery of that in rates? We've really not talked about any aspect of 2017 guidance Michael.
Is the 2016 increase in O&amp;M viewed more as one time or viewed as recurring? Well I think it is -- I would call it one time and we do generation outage every year where it is based with significant overall at both quarters at 28 in the same year I could say that that number is elevated based on what we wouldn’t call it one time in any view.
And the case are going to filed in mid-’16 will that use a full year ’15 test year and what large if any known and measurables would be in there? We’ll try to let's see what we had on the past which is the 2015 test year and any planned service 15-18 months then post patch your plan and there will be some things that are still under construction that won’t be done like the SCRs or Ocotillo allows them to recover some other mechanism.
Meaning you're expecting to potentially get Ocotillo recovered in this even though Ocotillo is now not due online until 2019? No we would not get Ocotillo in this rate case.
So this rate case is more about just managing lag and getting the FBRs in? I think this rate case is also a lot about the rate design issue which is how we align our 70% of fixed cost with only 10% of fixed revenue and try to get more alignment between cost and revenue.
Our next question comes from our Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
There was a court case in the Arizona Court of Appeal which overturned from the Arizona Corporate Commissions it was the case that didn't involve you but in theory I guess there is some that are arguing that the solar access being out of the rate case could be -- would it comply with the court of appeal ruling if you follow me.
I am sure you guys are familiar with the case but whether -- is this a new point that you have withdrawn your request or is there any risk if this I know the ACC is probably going to appeal it but if this decision were upheld is there any risk to you guys would respect to what would be the impact to you guys if it was upheld let me just ask it that way? So Paul this is Jeff Guldner.
If you are referring that water company case involving infrastructure adjustor the commission have appealed that and if so court of appeals case they start review with the Arizona supreme court and with the case that what's there was how the commission makes fair value findings which is somewhat unique that Arizona regulation how it makes their value findings in the context of adjustor mechanisms and things like that so we get them in rate cases we do typically fair value findings and provisions and almost everything that we do and so what I think folks are looking for right now is clarify some of the things that were in the court has appeals decision but it's I don’t think that the supreme court is not yet excited whether to grant review and if they do I'm sure they will see mostly intelligence of state participating in that litigation.
Okay right.
But I guess what I'm wondering is if they grant review and I mean this ultimately is upheld where there would be any impact on what you guys have collected in riders or what have you with this access do you mean what would be -- let me just ask you this way with reviewing impact on you guys when you look at the Arizona court of appeal’s decision what do you think the impact would be if we were up held? The part of the review on how you that to make fair value findings and those proceedings and I think most folks would expect the release to be prospective and so would be in highly to move forward with a different proceeding in terms of making fair value findings to which support whatever the court ultimately came out lift.
We've had filed adjustors and one of the things that was mention that decision is a fuel adjustor which tracks expenses up and down fuel adjustors have been common in Arizona for decades and that opinion recognize with types of adjustors fine and as you get into different styles or different models for adjustor gets little more complicated and you guys figure out how you put the fair value piece it up.
[Multiple Speakers] So you guys have been fine with fuel adjustment that wanted to be something that would be impacted but would there be any other potential riders as something that we should think about as being potentially impacted or is it would you feel basically that you guys have the one that impacts that much.
Is that what I'm getting at? Yes.
We also look at all the riders and we look at how the fair value provisions and how we handle fair value in each of those cases and that litigated or implemented the rate cases and then if we have to make adjustments for the next rate case then we would.
We have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
Thank you Christine.
Thanks for joining us today.
We apologize for the connection issues we had on the call.
And we look forward to seeing most of you at EVI here in a couple of weeks.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation 2015 Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Paul Mountain Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Thank you Christine.
I would like to thank everyone for participating in this conference call and webcast to review our fourth quarter and full year 2015 earnings recent developments and operating performance.
Our speakers today will be our Chairman and CEO Don Brandt; and our CFO Jim Hatfield.
Jeff Guldner APS’s Senior Vice President of Public Policy and Mark Schiavoni APS’s Chief Operating Officer are also here with us.
First I need to cover a few details with you.
The slides that we will be using are available on our Investor Relations website along with our earnings release and related information.
Note that the slides contain reconciliations of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Today’s comments and our slides contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations and the company assumes no obligation to update these statements.
Because actual results may differ materially from expectations we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements.
Our 2015 Form 10-K was filed this morning.
Please refer to that document for forward-looking statements cautionary language as well as the risk factors and MD&amp;A sections which identify risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in our disclosures.
A replay of this call will be available shortly on our website for the next 30 days.
It will also be available by telephone through February 26.
I will now turn the call over to Don.
Thanks Paul and thank you all for joining us today.
Pinnacle West delivered a solid 2015 with earnings near the high end of our guidance range with Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station having a record year and with the balance sheet that remains one of the strongest in the industry.
Jim will discuss the financial results and outlook.
My comments will focus mostly on the year ahead.
Our fleet performed very well in 2015 highlighted by Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station’s highest output ever equating to a capacity factor of 94.3%.
One of Palo Verde’s key strengths is the ability of the team to perform at an excellent level but to also drive continuous improvement each year.
2016 marks the beginning of a new period for our fleet.
In total we are planning to invest over $3.6 billion in capital over the next 3 years.
We are investing in two large projects in our fossil fleet as well as a few innovative investments and some IT systems to prepare our operations for the long-term.
The two large fossil projects are the Ocotillo modernization project and the selective catalytic reduction pollution controls or SCRs as they are called at the Four Corners Generating Plant.
Four Corners Unit 5 entered a major outage in January to make several upgrades and begin laying the groundwork for the SCR installations.
The innovative investments I will outline are designed to increase customer and system reliability and meet future resource needs.
In November we announced a partnership with the Department of the Navy to develop a 25 megawatt microgrid project at Marine Corps Air Station Yuma.
This is APS’s first micro-grid project in the first military base to secure 100% backup power.
We also plan to install a 40-megawatt solar facility this year on behalf of some of our larger customers.
This amount has been reflected in our 2016 CapEx budget.
The Solar Partner program which is planned for 1 500 APS-owned rooftop solar installations is on track to be fully installed and operational by mid 2016.
And just this month we officially launched our solar innovation study a 75-home demand rate laboratory here in the Metro Phoenix area which will determine how customers can use various combinations of distributed energy resources such as solar panels battery storage smart thermostats and high-efficiency HVAC systems to better manage their energy environments.
These customers will also be placed on our existing residential demand rate and the study will provide valuable information on customer’s ability to use technology to manage peak demand and lower their bills.
In addition to generation investments we are upgrading several IT systems to improve our customer interface facilitate active operation of our transmission and distribution systems and enable participation in the California ISO Energy Imbalance Market.
These investments along with our advanced meter program which is fully deployed are enabling integration of advanced technologies while also allowing us to maintain grid stability.
2016 also represents an important year on the regulatory calendar with the APS rate case said to be filed on June 1.
APS submitted the Notice of Intent to file on January 29 which gives notice to the ACC and stakeholders and outlines the primary topics we will propose in the June rate filing.
APS will propose the new rates go into effect July 1 2017 based on the test year ended December 31 2015 with certain adjustments.
To help achieve this outcome we have held a series of stakeholder meetings to provide clarity and transparency with the stakeholders.
We are also planning to submit an extensive list of standard discovery questions and responses with the June 1 filing.
Let me outline a few of the central topics from the Notice of Intent to filing.
Residential rate design is an area where we will propose changes to better align costs with prices and incentivize cost reducing technologies.
And we will be proposing universal demand rates as well as shifting our time-of-use periods to later in the day.
We will also propose revenue per customer decoupling mechanism that will be adjusted annually to replace the existing lost fixed cost recovery mechanism.
The decoupling mechanism will be proposed on a trial basis until the next rate case to act as a rate stabilizing mechanism during the transition period to the new rate structure.
The last item I will mention is we will request the deferral of cost related to two large CapEx projects we are investing in the SCRs at Four Corners and the fast ramping natural gas modernization project at Ocotillo.
These investments total over $900 million over the next few years within service states of 2018 and 2019 respectively.
And in the case of the SCRs since the timing of installations will be close to the end of this rate case we will also propose a step mechanism to reflect the deferred SCR costs similar to the treatment of the Four Corners acquisition.
The docket on value and cost of distributed generation has testimony due on February 25.
There are also four other electric rate cases in process.
UNS Electric is the first in line with hearings set to begin on March 1 in Tucson.
We are an active intervener in the UNS case since it is an important forum to discuss rate design.
The testimony we filed supports the concept of three-part rate design which incorporates a fixed service charge and energy charge and the demand charge.
This concept was also proposed and supported by UNS Electric and the ACC staff.
Related topics including methodologies for determining the cost to serve customers with solar and the value of solar will be a central focus in the value and cost of distributed generation docket.
In closing we delivered on our commitments in 2015 and we are well positioned for 2016 and the long-term with a clear plan and a strong leadership team in place to deliver on the plan.
I will now turn the call over to Jim.
Thank you Don and thank you everyone for joining us on the call.
This morning we reported our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2015.
As you can see on Slide 3 of the materials we had a solid year and ended on a strong note.
Before I review the details of our 2015 results let me touch on a few highlights from the quarter.
For the fourth quarter of 2015 we earned $0.37 per share compared to $0.05 per share in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Slide 4 outlines the variances which drove the increase in our quarterly earnings per share.
Looking at gross margin higher retail sales favorable weather and the adjustment mechanism were all positive contributors.
Also as we anticipated lower operations and maintenance expenses in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to 2014 improved earnings largely due to lower planned fossil outages.
Now turning to Slide 5 let’s review some of the details of our full year results.
We delivered positive results in the top line of our guidance range earning $3.92 per share compared to $3.58 per share in 2014 and earned a consolidated ROE of 9.77% which was in line with our goal of achieving more than 9.5%.
Gross margin was a positive driver for the year including favorable year-over-year weather.
The adjustment mechanisms were also earnings accretive in 2015 including the lost fixed cost recovery mechanism transmission and our Arizona Sun program.
The Four Corners rate change that went into effect on January 1 2015 was the largest driver in gross margin.
However keep in mind that the Four Corners rate change was largely offset in D&amp;A.
Higher usage by APS customers in 2015 versus 2014 contributed to earnings.
Weather normalized retail kilowatt hour sales after the effects of energy efficiency customer behavior and distributed generation were up 0.70% year-over-year.
2015 was our strongest year for retail sales growth since 2008 including three out of four quarters in which combined customer and usage growth outweighed the impacts of energy efficiency and distributed generation.
Operations and maintenance expense was lower in 2015 compared to 2014 due in part to our ongoing cost management efforts.
The largest reductions include a decrease in employee benefit costs and the lower costs related to fossil plant outages.
Lower interest expense net of AFUDC was another benefit to earnings to 2015 compared to 2014.
The decrease included reduced charges resulting from refinancing long-term debt at a lower rate and higher construction and work in progress balances benefiting AFUDC.
Higher depreciation and amortization expense was a primary headwind to 2015 earnings as compared to 2014.
As we reported all year higher D&amp;A decreased earnings due in part to the absence of the 2014 Four Corners cost deferrals and related 2015 amortization of the deferrals and the cost associated with the Four Corners acquisition in 2013.
Additional plant in service also reduced year-over-year earnings.
Because Arizona’s economy has been an integral part of our business story let me highlight to you the trends we are seeing in our local economy in particular the Metro Phoenix area.
By and large what you see on Slide 6 is the continuation of the consistent growth trends we have been describing for you the last couple of years.
Job growth in the fourth quarter in the Metro Phoenix area remained above the national average as it has for the past 18 quarters.
As seen on the upper panel Metro Phoenix added jobs at a 2.8% year-over-year rate.
This job growth is broad based with the construction healthcare tourism financial business sectors consumer services sectors each adding jobs at a rate above 3%.
Notably the construction sector has been adding jobs in the last two quarters at a rate of about 7%.
Growth in consumer spending remains robust and the housing market continues to strengthen.
Our expectation for the Metro Phoenix housing permits can be seen in the lower panel.
In 2015 the housing market recorded its best year since 2007 for both total permits and the single-family sector by itself with almost 22 000 permits and 15 000 permits respectively.
This level of single-family permit activity represents an increase over the prior year of almost 50%.
As you can see on the slide we expect the housing market to improve in 2016 with total housing permits within the range of 25 000 to 32 000.
In summary the Metro Phoenix economy continues to grow steadily and is positioned for stronger growth in the next couple of years.
As I mentioned before Arizona and the Metro Phoenix remained attractive places to live and do business especially as it is situated relative to the high cost California market.
2015 was better than 2014 in terms of job growth income growth consumer spending and new construction and we expect to see 2016 to be better than 2015.
Reflecting a steady improvement in economic conditions APS’s retail customer base grew 1.3% compared with the fourth quarter last year and 1.2% year-over-year.
We expect that this growth rate will gradually accelerate in response to the economic growth trends I just discussed.
Importantly the long-term fundamentals supporting future population job growth and the economic development in Arizona appear to be in place.
Now I will review our earnings guidance and financial outlook.
Last quarter we issued Pinnacle West consolidated ongoing earnings for 2016 which we continue to expect to be in the range of $3.90 to $4.10 per share.
The adjustment mechanism particularly transmission and the LFCR along with modest sales growth and normal weather remained the key gross margin drivers.
O&amp;M is above trend in 2016.
However non-outage O&amp;M spend remains flat.
As you may recall last year we have reported that we had moved a planned Four Corners unit outage from 2015 to 2016.
2016 includes major planned outages of both Four Corners and Cholla.
The planned 82-day major overhaul at Four Corners Unit 5 started in January which creates a Q1 2016 earnings headwind of about $0.13 quarter-over-quarter.
Keep in mind this was factored into our guidance.
Overall our focus remains on our cost management efforts as we look through 2016 and beyond but the outages are our priority for us this year.
One other comment on O&amp;M the funding status of our pension plan remains strong at 88% as of year end 2015 but the continued implementation of our liability driven investment strategy has helped us keep cost down.
There is a slide in the appendix with additional details on our pension plan.
You will find a complete list of factors and assumptions underlying our guidance in the appendix to our slides which are unchanged.
As Don mentioned our balance sheet remained strong.
I will outline our financing plan and how the impact of bonus depreciation has factored in.
We have already assumed a 2-year extension of bonus depreciation and that was incorporated to our rate base disclosure in the last earnings call.
Our updated estimates can be found in the appendix which show an incremental reduction in rate base of approximately $200 million in 2018 as a result of the bonus depreciation.
However the extension also resulted in approximately $550 million of total cash benefit through 2019 which provides financing flexibility over that time horizon.
In terms of capital expenditures we anticipate APS’ spend to average around $1.2 billion annually from 2016 to 2018 which will be primarily funded through internally generated cash flow.
With this capital spending level taking into account the bonus depreciation we continue to expect our rate base to grow at an average annual rate of 6% to 7% through 2018.
Turning to 2016 financing we plan to refinance a $250 million maturity in August and anticipate issuing of $0.25 million of additional long-term debt.
Overall liquidity remains very strong.
At the end of 2015 neither Pinnacle West nor APS had any short-term debt outstanding.
In summary given the strength of our balance sheet coupled with the extension of bonus depreciation we no longer forecast the need for additional equity.
The net effect of bonus depreciation and the removal of equity leads us relatively neutral from an earnings perspective.
We will continue to review our capital forecast to identify additional investment opportunities as we move forward.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
I will now turn the call back over to the operator for questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning Dan.
Just on the revenue per customer decoupling mechanism you talked about in your opening remarks you said there were going to be some adjuster mechanisms as you go ahead try and rebalance to keep you guys on hold can you just explain to me how that’s going to work and kind of how you propose for that to work going forward? Jeff is sitting right here.
Dan I will let him try on that one.
Sure Dan so there was an extensive discussion in Arizona a few years ago around decoupling mechanisms in general.
In our last rate case we had proposed that LFCR mechanism as a – essentially from the settlement process.
But the way our revenue per customer mechanism would work is it takes into account all of the different adjustments so whether sales as well as just other changes to essentially changes to the normal revenue requirement process but what it does is it looks that it to accommodate customer growth right.
So as customers grow and we are making additional investments into the system we need to be able to pickup the additional costs that come from that growth.
Did that make sense? Yes that makes sense.
Okay.
Don you also said you guys were going to change the kind of peak period from a demand charge perspective toward a pricing perspective what hours are you looking to move that to…? Have we arrived at those yet Jim.
Still working through obviously the stakeholder process but pushing it more towards the first later in the day because that’s where you see the need to essentially focus on the peak? Okay.
So kind of the evening early evening hours I guess…? Yes.
Early evening we have got current rates primary time use rate is 12 to 7 peak period.
And so we’d both shorten that up and then move it out later in the day.
And that’s partly responding to the dot curve what you see in the wholesale market up here from the over generation that happens in the middle of the day.
As our summer peak this last year was at 5 o'clock to 6 o'clock maybe afternoon early evening and that’s been typically the time of hitting our peak.
Okay got it.
And I guess you know how do you guys see this working I guess with all the parties involved? Obviously the Nevada process has gotten challenged and maybe a little bit sloppy in retrospect.
Do you see common ground where this works to get to a fair conclusion all the way around or this is probably going to be another contentious process? Well I think there will be some additional element in this that is typical but the last few cases have been very well organized and executed by all 22 23 parties and that’s certainly I think the direction we the staff will go and the vast majority of the parties would intend to proceed.
Should we be watching the UniSource case as indicative of what you guys will try and accomplish as well? UniSource is going to be an important discussion.
That’s the first case in the state that’s really focused on the changes to residential rate design.
That’s why we have got four witnesses in that case.
So obviously that’s probably a case to watch.
Got it.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Shar Pourreza with Guggenheim.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Shar.
So just on the shifting of the demand rates later in the day is there any potential impact if we get a successful launch with the EIM can that sort of that peak demand period smooth out a little bit? No Shar this is Jeff.
EIM helps balance really intra-hour.
It’s not affecting the underlying wholesale market.
So what you see in that shift and it’s not the shift of demand rates but that shift of the time-of-use period the peak period out to later in the day is reflecting that ramp that comes later in the day from the duck curve.
Got it okay.
That’s helpful.
And then just thinking about sort of have you – is there – are we anywhere in the process as far as looking at gas storage opportunities right now around APS? No nothing in the process.
Got it.
Okay.
And then lastly the toll does sort of expire I think next year.
Any updates there as far as looking at new build or acquiring in-state generation or another toll? Well we will be going out next month I believe with all resource RFP for – with the beginning date later.
This decade is really designed with not only the heat rate options which are not flexible than have been or will expire.
And then we have a toll in ‘16 and a toll in ‘19.
So this process and we will get being all resource I expect to see various resources in there and we will evaluate -- and evaluate where we are and what we need and we will move from there.
Okay got it.
But new build is still an option? Yes.
I think we have great optionality here.
I mean we can extend the tolls shorter term long-term.
We could new build if it was the right thing to do.
But right now we will just see what comes into the RFP.
Excellent.
Thanks Jeff and Don.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Weinstein with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys.
In regard to the shifting of the time-of-use rates to later in the day how much value do you really see shifting or being shifted as a result of that change? This is Jeff.
So what you are trying to do we have a fuel adjuster right which is going to pick up essentially the cost of the fuel burn but what you are trying to do and shift that out later is to align the customer response with when we see the need for essentially conservation on the system.
And so what it’s...
I guess what I am asking is how much value is being lost right now by having the time of these rates peaking too early in the day? It’s a customer issue.
So if you have the time of use rates fixed you don’t have essentially for example on the solar side you are not providing credit at noon at a peak rate when the wholesale market is negative.
Oh I see.
So this is – yes I guess what I am trying to find out is how much money is the utility losing by providing peak pricing at times of the non-peak usage? Yes Michael there is no money loss for APS.
It’s really a shifting and sending the right pricing signals to – what was done whey they were put in before to what we are seeing in today’s marketplace.
It’s an alignment issue.
Do you have any sense of how much of the shift how much in dollar terms that shift is? It’s a rate design issue.
So it’s kind of – it’s part of the rate design process.
We are trying to align the retail rates with the wholesale market.
Okay.
Also yes I was just going to shift to another question but we can talk more about that offline.
The issue is its rate design so it’s revenue neutral so… I understand it’s revenue neutral.
I am just trying to get at what’s the impact on solar on the third-party solar in the state and how – what’s the impact on them in terms of cost shifting and what kind of rate shift will they see as a result and how it’s going to impact adoption rates? On a separate topic Doug Little was recently in New York City and he was talking about reducing regulatory lag as a high priority.
And this goes along the lines of you applying for a decoupling mechanism.
I am just wondering are there other forms of rate lag structural rate lag that you could seek to eliminate under the new commission make up? We have made a fair number of changes really over the last probably 2 or 3 rate cases that have picked that up.
A lot of it comes in the time to process the case and trying to get that processing time down to a year or so and things we have done with that are for example pre-filing the discovery.
So we don’t wait file the case wait for 3 4 months and then begin the discovery process.
And so a lot of that’s been worked out obviously adjuster mechanisms and how you can work on adjustment mechanisms can help smooth out even further.
And so that’s probably going to be some of the discussion you will see and that’s part of what we have been talking about with stakeholders.
Right.
Are there any important differences between your rate design and the UNS case the UNS rate design that we should be looking for as we watch that case? I think the general issue that’s coming up in UNS is how it’s going to apply broadly across the customer base.
And so the commission staff that proposed that the three-part rate design be applied to all residential customers and that’s one of the key issues to look at I think.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Ali.
Jim first wanted to clarify your comment when you said with bonus depreciation extension equity needs have been taken out of the equation.
Does that mean through this 2018 period or when at the earliest do you now see any need for equity? I don’t see any equity needs Ali through the planning horizon.
That runs through 2018? Yes but through the end of this decade frankly.
End of this decade okay.
And then secondly given that fact if I look at your updated rate base numbers if I take ‘15 as the starting point the ‘15 through ‘18 CAGR is about 6%.
So should we assume EPS should pretty much follow that since there is no equity dilution to factor in or should we think about the EPS CAGR there? I think as we have said in the past EPS CAGR is somewhere between rate base growth and dividend growth as we think about those as your two boundaries.
And dividend growth you have talked about 4% annually if I recall correctly? 5% was the last dividend increase.
Okay okay.
And then a question to you Don wanted to get your view we have seen a pickup in consolidation in the utility space we have seen very large premiums being paid out there.
Just wondering what’s your perspective is and do you see a role for Pinnacle West in that consolidation process we are seeing out there? Well you are right there is a lot going on out there but we don’t really comment on M&amp;A.
I will say we are focused on our excellent operations and continuing that.
And we believe growing earnings and providing – will provide shareholder value without combining operations with another entity.
Would you agree with the assessment that valuations that are being paid appear excessive or do you think those are reasonable out there? I think each one of them is unique to the specific transaction.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Fishman with Morningstar.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Jim I just want to confirm ROE for 2015 you said 9.77 and I am assuming that’s weather normalized? No.
That’s based on the 3.92.
And that’s at the Pinnacle level.
Okay.
So it’s a book.
Yes.
Okay.
And do you have it for – well I am looking at my model and I have 9.6 last year what – am I comparing apples-to-apples? I think that’s pretty close yes.
Okay.
That’s all I have.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Andy Levi with Avon Capital.
Please proceed with your question.
Actually all my questions have been answered but it’s nice to hear a call where there are no – make your number and your forecast is good and that there is no like pension plugs or anything like that so that’s it all of my question have been answered.
Thank you.
Thank you Andy.
Thanks Andy.
We like it that way too.
We have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for closing or additional comments.
Thank you Christine.
And thanks everybody for joining us today.
We will talk to you soon.
That concludes our call.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
And have a wonderful day.