Good morning and welcome to the AutoZone conference call.
Your lines have been placed on listen only until the question and answer session of the conference.
Please be advised today’s call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
This conference call will discuss AutoZone’s first quarter financial results.
Bill Rhodes the company’s Chairman President and CEO will make a short presentation on the highlights of the quarter.
The conference call will end promptly at 10:00 am Central Time 11:00 am Eastern Time.
Before Mr.
Rhodes begins the company has requested that you listen to the following statement regarding forward looking statements.
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use words such as believe anticipate should intend plan will expect estimate project positions strategy and similar expressions.
These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends current conditions expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including without limitation credit market conditions the impact of recessionary conditions competition product demand the ability to hire and retain qualified employees consumer debt levels inflation weather raw material costs of our suppliers energy prices war and the prospect of war including terrorist activity availability of consumer transportation construction delays access to available and feasible financing and changes in laws or regulations.
Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the risk factors section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 28 2010 and these risk factors should be read carefully.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone’s fiscal 2011 first quarter conference call.
With me today are Bill Giles Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Store Development and IT and Brian Campbell Vice President and Treasurer Investor Relations and Tax.
Regarding the first quarter I hope you have had an opportunity to read our press release and to learn about the quarter’s results.
If not the press release along with slides complementing our comments today is available on our Web site www.autozoneinc.com.
Please click on quarterly earnings conference calls to see them.
We are very pleased to announce a strong start to our fiscal year with an increase in EPS for the first quarter of 33.7% and a domestic same store sales increase of 9-1/2%.
This marks the eighth consecutive quarter of EPS growth in excess of 20% and the 17th consecutive quarter of double digit EPS growth.
Just eight weeks ago during our fourth quarter conference call we highlighted our operating theme for 2011 one team going the extra mile and outlined the key elements in making that theme a reality.
This morning we will update you on our progress on these initiatives and give some color on the opportunities and obstacles we may face for the balance of the year.
Along the way we’ll address what we have learned.
First I want to congratulate our entire organization on another very impressive performance in the first quarter.
Our sales results accelerated this past quarter in both retail and commercial and a key contributor to that acceleration was the execution levels of our organization across the board.
On both a two-year and three-year comp store stacked basis our trends accelerated and we continued to gain share in both commercial and retail in virtually every geographic area of the country.
As you know our retail sales represent the largest percentage mix to our overall sales.
According to third party statistics our share of the addressable $40 billion plus retail segment has grown consistently over the last couple of years.
To me it’s quite impressive that we have continued to consistently gain share year over year in the retail business as the market leader.
Obviously this has been our strength historically and let me assure you that we will never take our eye off of this important ball nor will we ever take our position as the market leader for granted.
Regarding commercial this quarter followed on last quarter’s 20% plus growth with sales growth of 21%.
This marks our 14th straight quarter of sequential improvement in commercial sales growth.
While yes we gained share in this sector as well it still represents only 12.4% of our overall sales up from 11.6% this time last year.
Today it is a substantially smaller percentage of the business than retail but it is important to remember that the commercial sector of the industry is substantially larger than the retail sector approximately 30% bigger.
Many of our competitors have stated specific goals on how they want to see their mix of sales between commercial and retail.
We have elected not to have such a stated goal as we don’t believe the size of sales in either business has a material impact on the other sector except that the higher our combined sales the better we can leverage our expenses and assets.
The bottom line is we don’t want to put any false constraints on our opportunities in either retail or commercial.
We have tremendous opportunities in both and we will aggressively pursue both.
As validated by the continued acceleration in our commercial sales growth we are quite pleased with the strategies and tactics that we have developed over the last several years and believe we are on track to build a strong sustainable business for the long term.
During the quarter we opened 54 programs.
We now have commercial programs in 50% of our stores up from 54% last year.
Additionally our other business all data and e-commerce had a fine quarter up over 11% in sales from this time last year.
Clearly the industry has experienced accelerated growth but we believe the initiatives we have been implementing the past few years along with our in-store execution of great customer service has resulted in our ability to sequentially increase our market share.
While our results were strong our competitors also reported improving sales trends.
Our best estimate on the reason for the industry acceleration can be grouped into two categories.
Number one extreme summer conditions that continued into the fall and two the health of the consumer’s pocketbook did not improve.
People continue to hold on to their vehicles and are focusing on maintaining them properly.
To give color on the macro points I’ll highlight the mix of sales.
Our sales mix continued to be dominated by failure and maintenance categories and discretionary sales continued to grow but at a slower pace.
While failure remains the largest mix at approximately 45% of our total sales maintenance is at 40% and not far behind.
Our sales growth acceleration started about two years ago now.
The change for our business was a change in customer count trends.
For many years prior our customer count was declining on a same store basis.
That decline was somewhat structural as technology was improving the quality and longevity of the products we sold.
However those improvements came with incremental costs and those incremental costs helped drive a long-term increase in average unit retail or average ticket.
A simple example is the spark plug category where spark plugs used to sell for $1 or less a piece.
Today they are made of new materials that are much more expensive but they burn hotter and last longer.
Platinum and iridium spark plugs today sell for $3-8 while a tune up has been extended from 30 000 miles to 70-100 000 miles.
This quarter our customer count and average ticket growth rates were similar.
We believe that this substantial amount of the change in customer count growth is coming from the maintenance categories as customers elect to take better care of their existing vehicles.
We also had weather patterns that have been favorable for our business in recent quarters.
This quarter the summer heat continued well into the quarter and the conditions were generally dry.
It is inherently difficult to forecast the future and fortunately we don’t have to have a precise forecast for an extended period of time.
We can quickly modify our plans should conditions accelerate or decelerate from here.
That allows us to spend the vast majority of our time focusing on what we control.
Regarding our execution we continue to believe that superior execution can be a sustainable point of differentiation.
In an industry where changes to vehicle technology brands and systems are constant we have been keenly focused on evaluating the most efficient ways that we can fulfill our customers’ needs.
With our hub store conversions and continual refinements to our hard parts assortment we have been adding significant amounts of merchandise and it has been selling.
Additionally we have been very aggressively removing unproductive inventory from the system in an effort to make room for the later model parts we are adding.
We are also constantly refining our marketing efforts to identify more effective and more efficient methods to motivate our customers to shop with us more frequently.
Additionally we have been very focused on leveraging the Internet across a variety of fronts.
In the last two years we have launched completely new Web sites for both retail and commercial with our new commercial site being launched just in November.
We have been pleased with our progress but also understand that there are limitless opportunities for us to engage more effectively with our customers over the Internet.
Lastly on the people front we improved our training efforts and we have added AutoZoners to grow the business both for retail and commercial.
Our second quarter has just begun and we don’t comment on intra-quarter sales trends.
But I want to remind everyone that it is our seasonally lowest sales quarter and it is always interesting as it includes the Thanksgiving Christmas and New Years holidays and the weather patterns can be very different this time of year.
Next let me update you on the initiatives we have put in place for the new fiscal year that support our operating plan theme of one team going the extra mile.
Going the extra mile has been a very important part of our heritage for many years.
One team was born of our desire to ensure that we were providing the very best customer service experience to every customer regardless of how they interact with us.
Over the last year we have been testing our one team program in a select number of stores.
The results have been encouraging but we have seen a significant benefit across the stores that aren’t on the one team test program.
We have seen regions and districts develop their own one team mind set and that attitudinal shift has been a tremendous change for us and is a key part of our success.
We will continue to streamline systems remove obstacles and reinforce to all AutoZoners to always put customers first regardless of how they interact with us.
But this year one team is taking on an even broader role.
It is permeating the entire organization from regions helping regions to departments helping departments to businesses helping businesses.
It has a momentum of its own and it is pulling our organization even closer than we have been in the past.
We have a tremendous unique culture and one team going the extra mile will have long positive lasting effects on our culture.
One team going the extra mile is supported by our 2011 key priorities.
One great people providing great service; two continual refinements and improvements in our hub strategy; three leveraging the Internet; four profitably growing commercial; five ever-improving inventory management and finally improved product assortments.
As we always do we communicated our plans for the new fiscal year at our national sales meeting held here in Memphis in September.
Then throughout October we held regional meetings across the country to carry that message to additional leaders who weren’t at the national sales meetings.
I personally attended many of these meetings and I was very impressed by the professionalism of those meetings but more importantly by the great leaders we have and by their enthusiasm and commitment level to our plans.
We definitely have great people providing great service.
On the hub strategy front we relocated two hubs this past quarter and finished consistent with last year with 145 locations.
Our investments in the hubs have continued to put some pressure on SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales as only 71 of the 143 conversions were completed by the end of Q1 last year.
The hub stores continue to perform very well.
They have become a strategic asset for us and as we mentioned last quarter we have many of them that are large enough to accommodate our plans for them or they’re in the wrong location.
We are proceeding with our plans to right size the hubs and ensure they are in the right place as well.
This will be a multiyear effort but we are pleased with the progress we have made to date.
Regarding the Internet we continue to refine and update our retail Web site including enhancing content.
As previously mentioned we recently rolled out a completely new commercial Web site and we are pleased with the enhancements to the site and with our customers’ initial response.
Today we have a very large share of the traffic in retail but the consumer doesn’t do a significant amount of purchases online or even buy online/pick up in store.
However over time as consumer behaviors change and as we enhance our sites we believe this is likely to continue to grow at a fairly rapid pace.
Today many of our in-store sales are influenced by our customers’ interaction with us over the Web.
On the commercial front our penetration of purchases is substantially behind others in the industry.
But we believe our new platform combined with our knowledgeable sales force can make up ground fairly quickly.
We have invested materially in this effort and believe it can be a more substantial piece of both retail and commercial in the future.
Lastly I will reiterate our organization has performed well and our financial performance has remained healthy.
I attribute this solid financial performance to our business model and our culture a culture where passionate highly-committed people understand the strategies and consistently execute at an extremely high level.
Our team understands this industry and manages our resources well.
Our planning efforts are exceptional as we feel we have good visibility into business trends and our team is committed to managing to those trends appropriately.
We have been very deliberate in how we manage expenses and capital in order to deliver consistent strong financial performance and position our business for long-term growth.
And we will continue with this strategy well into the future.
We should also highlight another strong performance and return on investment capital as we were able to grow this metric to 28.6% on a trailing four-quarter basis which represents another new all time high for our organization.
We will always maintain our diligence regarding capital stewardship.
Now I’ll take a few moments to talk more specifically about retail commercial and Mexico results for the quarter and then Bill Giles will review our gross margins operating expenses the balance sheet and cash flows.
For the quarter total auto parts sales increased 12.8% versus last year’s first quarter’s growth of 7.7%.
This segmentation includes both our domestic retail and commercial businesses and our Mexico stores.
Regarding our domestic business during the first quarter we continued to focus on driving sales and profits through improving the customer experience.
This quarter we completed category line reviews in 15 of our 40 plus major merchandise categories.
Improving our parts coverage remains a key priority.
I’ll break my remaining comments regarding retail sales up into a couple of major categories.
In addition to my previous comments regarding our enhanced hub store model I’d like to address two specific areas training initiatives and the macro trends we have seen.
One of our key objectives is to make sure we are providing trustworthy advice to our customers.
A critical element in ensuring that is providing our AutoZoners with the tools and training to provide that great advice.
We have been very focused on upgrading many of the tools we provide to our AutoZoners from Z Net to testing tools and we have been expanding our focus on specific product category training.
Additionally we have been enhancing our training for improved utilization of our hub stores and recently intensified our training on safety.
Regarding macro trends during the first quarter unleaded gas prices started out at $2.80 a gallon and rose slightly finishing the quarter at $2.88 a gallon.
Last year gas prices were stable throughout the first quarter between $2.59 and $2.64 a gallon.
As gas prices have remained relatively stable we believe they were not a driver positive or negative to our sales results over the last quarter although we are always mindful of the moves in oil prices and how they ultimately can correlate to prices at the pump.
Miles driven remains less of a story to our near term sales results than in previous years.
Recently July August and September showed positive upward trends up 0.8 up 1.7 and up 1.5% respectively.
While recently we have seen minimal correlation in our sales performance of miles driven historically it has been one of the key statistics which correlate to our sales results over the long term.
The other is the number of 7-year-old motor vehicles on the road which continues to trend in our industry’s favor.
Regarding weather it continued to have a positive impact on our results as the country experienced much warmer weather throughout summer and into the fall and the effects continued to impact sales results the last few months.
For the trailing four quarters total auto part sales per square foot were $251.
This statistic continues to set the pace for the rest of the industry.
Now let’s turn to commercial.
For the quarter total commercial sales increased 21%.
Our strong results which began to accelerate in Q1 of 2010 continued in our first quarter.
As we have said previously we have been very pleased with the progress we are making in this business both operationally and financially.
We believe there are ample opportunities for us to continue to improve many facets of our operations and offerings and therefore we are quite optimistic about the future of this business.
However there are no silver bullets.
Our sales growth has come from both existing and new customers.
We continue to believe we can grow revenues in existing stores and we will continue to open additional new commercial programs.
This past quarter we opened 54 new programs in markets we believe have strong potential.
We now have our commercial program in 2 478 stores supported by 145 hub stores.
With just 56% of our domestic stores having the commercial program we believe additional programs can and will be opened this fiscal year and beyond.
We remain committed to building a platform for long-term growth growth in both sales and profits.
One of our main focus areas continues to be building and developing our sales force.
We congratulate our sales force of 240 plus for their commitment to growing relationships across the country.
This sales force continues to be expanded but the most significant focus is on continuing to grow and mature our sales team as it remains relatively new.
As I make sales calls with our territory sales managers I have begun to see a real shift.
Several years ago when we began creating this sales force we made what I would call social calls.
Today I see well informed highly trained salespeople who have a purpose for their visit.
Additionally I see customers who appreciate the professionalism of our team and who also appreciate the comprehensive nature of our offerings.
Simply stated our customers’ receptivity to AutoZone is quite different than it was just a few short years ago.
In addition to our focus on further developing our sales force we have continued to add significant resources to our commercial business from additional late model coverage both in satellite and hub stores and we have added additional labor hours and trucks.
Lastly we mentioned on last quarter’s call that we completed the store roll out of our proprietary Z Net system for commercial.
This system better leverages the wealth of content we made available and creates a common operating system platform that is considerably more intuitive to operate across both businesses.
We believe this technology improves the potential of utilizing our store labor hours more effectively thereby garnering better coverage and support for both types of customers.
We have only just begun utilizing this tool in our stores and it remains a key priority for us heading into 2011.
In summary the commercial business remains on track and we’re excited about our continuing opportunities.
Our Mexico stores continue to perform well.
We opened three new stores during the first quarter and currently have 241 stores in Mexico.
We remain resolute on our strategy to open stores at a steady pace while managing our Mexico business for the long term.
Also we continue to be comfortable with the foreign currency risk this business introduces.
Our ongoing commitment remains to prudently and profitably grow the Mexico business.
Now I’ll turn it over to Bill Giles to discuss the remainder of the income statement cash flows and the balance sheet.
Bill.
Thanks Bill.
Regarding the first quarter for the 12 weeks ended November 20th we reported sales of $1 792 million dollars an increase of 12.7% from last year’s first quarter.
Domestic same store sales or sales for stores open more than one year were up 9.5% for the quarter.
We experienced strong sales growth from both our retail and commercial customers.
Net income for the quarter was $172 million an increase of 20.1% versus last year’s first quarter and diluted earnings per share increased 33.7% to $3.77 from $2.82 in the year ago quarter.
Our continued disciplined capital management approach resulted in return on invested capital for the trailing four quarters of 28.6%.
We have and will continue to make investments that we believe will generate returns that significantly exceed our cost of capital.
Gross margin for the quarter was 50.7% of sales up 33 basis points compared to last year’s first quarter.
Improvement in gross margin was primarily attributable to an increased penetration of Duralast product offerings and lower acquisition costs.
In regards to inflation and its impact on comp store sales performance we have not experienced any significant impact.
Although by category there have been some fluctuations taken as a whole they have offset each other.
We do not expect inflation to play a large role in same store sales for this fiscal year.
However we cannot be sure as commodity pricing is the main driver in this area.
Thus far into the year inflation has not had a significant impact.
Looking forward we continue to believe there remains opportunity for gross margin expansion.
However we do not manage a targeted gross margin percentage.
Instead we are focused on growing absolute gross profit dollars.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 33.6% of sales down 37 basis points from last year’s first quarter.
The reduction in operating expenses as a percentage of sales reflected leverage of store operating expenses due to higher sales partially offset by increased incentive compensation costs higher legal expenses and continued investments in our hub store initiative.
As our sales have improved we have taken the opportunity to invest in expenses that we believe will help position the business for long-term growth.
However we understand all expenditures must achieve an appropriate investment hurdle.
We will continue to appropriately manage our expenditures to enhance the customer experience while being fiscally prudent.
While our operating expense percentage growth has increased over the last two years we continue to purposefully invest these dollars to position the company for future sales growth.
This organization takes great pride in our disciplined approach to managing our cost structure and leveraging our culture of thrift and remains committed to appropriately managing expenses in line with overall performance.
We continue to be well positioned to manage our cost structure for the foreseeable future.
EBIT for the quarter was $306 million up 17.5% over last year’s first quarter.
Our EBIT margin improved to 17.1% or 70 basis points versus the previous year’s first quarter.
Interest expense for the quarter was $37.3 million compared with 36.3 million in Q1 a year ago a 2-1/2% increase.
This past quarter we issued $500 million of new debt replacing $200 million of expirations plus terming out some commercial paper.
As a result of this new debt we expect our blended borrowing rate to increase in the future and more specifically expect our run rate on interest to be closer to a range of $41-43 million in Q2.
Debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $2 879 million or approximately $140 million more than last year’s balance of $2 740 million.
Our adjusted debt levels of 2.3 times EBITDA are in line with past quarters’ results.
As we have previously stated our objective is to manage our debt levels to maintain our investment grade debt rating and we feel comfortable that we are well within an appropriate range to achieve that objective.
While in any given quarter we may increase or decrease debt levels based on management’s opinion regarding debt equity market conditions we remain committed to both our investment grade rating and our capital allocation strategy and share repurchases are an important element of that strategy.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 36% in line with last year’s first quarter of 36.1%.
We expect to be closer to 37% on an ongoing basis.
Net income for the quarter of $172 million was up 20.1% versus the prior year’s first quarter.
Our diluted share count of 45.6 million was down approximately 10% from last year.
The combination of these factors drove earnings per share for the quarter to $3.77 up 33.7% over the prior year’s first quarter.
Relating to the cash flow statement for the first fiscal quarter of 2011 we generated $357 million of operating cash flow.
We continue to remain focused on increasing operating cash flow in 2011.
We repurchased $300 million of AutoZone stock in the first quarter and at the end of the quarter we had $385 million remaining under our share buyback authorization.
We continue to view our share repurchase program as an attractive capital deployment strategy.
By to date we have bought $9 billion of our stock back.
Accounts payable as a percent of gross inventory finished the quarter at just over 106% versus 97% in last years’ first quarter.
Next I’d like to update you on our inventory levels in total and on a per store basis.
We reported an inventory balance of $2.4 billion up 4.4% versus the Q1 ending balance last year.
We feel our enhanced hub model will allow us to continue to manage our inventory levels more efficiently.
At the same time we believe there is further opportunity to expand inventory coverage in several categories.
Net fixed assets were up 7% versus last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $46 million and reflected the additional expenditures required to open 18 new stores this quarter maintenance on existing stores and work on development of new stores for upcoming quarters.
With the new stores open we finished this past quarter with 4 404 stores in 48 states the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico and 241 stores in Mexico for a total store count of 4 645.
Depreciation totaled $44.3 million for the quarter versus last year’s first quarter expense of $42.6 million.
Our senior unsecured debt rating from Standard &amp; Poor’s is BBB and we have a commercial paper rating of A2.
Moody’s Investor Service has assigned us a senior unsecured debt credit rating of BAA2 and a commercial paper rating of P2 and Fitch has assigned us a senior unsecured rating of BBB as well and a commercial paper rating of F2.
Now I’ll turn it back to Bill Rhodes.
Thank you Bill.
Before we conclude I want to reiterate that our industry’s performance has been strong for the last couple of years.
But I believe our team’s commitment to our culture and our customers combined with our initiatives have contributed significantly to our success as evidenced by our continuing growth in market share in both retail and commercial.
We remain committed to continuing to improve our business model and our operations continual refinements but frankly we are not making radical or high risk changes.
We have an exceptional business model that still has tremendous opportunities for further improvements.
For fiscal 2011 we will continue to focus on our key priorities.
Again great people providing great service continual refinements and improvements in our hub strategy leveraging the Internet profitably growing commercial ever-improving inventory management and improving our product assortment.
Before we move to Q&amp;A I want to again thank and congratulate our entire organization for their dedication to our customers fellow AutoZoners stockholders and the communities we serve.
Our approach remains consistent.
We are focused on one team going the extra mile in 2011 and we’re in a solid position to do just that.
Now we’d like to open up the call for questions.
Thank you very much.
Hey congratulations on a great quarter.
First question for Bill Rhodes if I may.
Bill with respect to the one team initiative could you maybe just describe in a little bit more detail what the costs associated with this program are when you expect those costs to reach their peak if the initiative continues to go as planned?  And maybe if you will just quantify a little bit more some of the net benefits at the store level that you’re seeing.
Thank you very much.
Sure Alan and thank you for your comments.
First of all there are two different ways to talk about this one team.
First of all we have a test in a very small set of stores where we have enacted the one team approach and basically what that means is we bring the commercial desk out on the counter.
And so there is some very minimal cost related to relocating that commercial desk.
But then they function as one team and they can from that counter anybody can service commercial or retail.
The bigger part of it is this whole attitudinal shift in our organization of everybody chipping in.
We’re not looking inside the organization as I’m responsible for commercial or retail or All Data or Mexico.
We’re really focused on one team and that has really been the surprise to me and it’s one of those things that just built momentum on its own.
So going back to the first one I don’t know what the timing of roll out on it will be or what the costs will be.
It’s really too early.
We’re about to roll out the next set of test stores to see where we go from there.
But as that changes we’ll let you know once we have more clarity on it ourselves.
Okay.
Question for Bill Giles - I believe you said that the continued roll out of the hub program did pressure SG&amp;A.
Would you be able to quantify what that pressure was in the quarter?  And would it be reasonable on our part to expect that that pressure should really subside going forward now that the program is fully rolled out? Yeah.
I think if you think about it we had about a fully rolled out program today although in Q1 of last year I believe 71 of the programs were rolled out.
So we’re anniversarying some of that impact.
There was about an 18 basis point impact on SG&amp;A this quarter and it’d be safe to assume that as we migrate our way through completely through the end of this year that that will begin to subside as we anniversary the roll out of that program.
We did a lot of those since the fourth quarter of last year.
Okay.
And one last question if I may maybe for Bill Rhodes.
Bill with such great success on the commercial side revenues up 21% could you maybe just articulate where that growth is coming from?  Are you seeing accelerated growth from new accounts or are you seeing greater penetration from already existing accounts?  Thank you very much.
That’s a great question Alan.
We’re seeing it across the board.
We track it from existing customers and what kind of growth are we seeing from them.
That’s improved.
We’re tracking new customers and what are we getting from those customers.
And that’s improved.
And as importantly we also unfortunately lose customers and our trends in lost customers are also improving.
So it’s across the board.
Our team both the field sales and operations team and the sales force are doing a great job of really getting out there.
And I talked about the sales calls that I’ve been on recently and the mindset shift of our sales team members and the receptivity of the commercial customers is just so vastly different than it was three years ago.
So I’m continuing to be very excited about the future.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Great.
I have a couple questions.
First Bill you had mentioned in your opening comments that you didn’t want any false constraints in terms of growing the retail or commercial side of the business.
Could you just elaborate a little bit on what a potential false constraint would be? I mean people have asked us and I wanted to make sure and clear that up because people ask us are you trying to be a 50/50 split or a 70/30 split.
I don’t care what the split is.
I don’t want us to put false constraints on the organization to think we need to prioritize this business over that business.
We need to have maximum market share in each of those businesses as long as we can do it properly.
Great.
And over to Bill Giles you had mentioned I think that gross margins were helped by Duralast expansion.
Could you just give us a little more color on that in terms of what private label penetration is now and if there were any sort of categories that were particularly strong that drove that? Actually when you think about it a lot of the failure related categories actually had pretty good improvement overall and we have a lot of Duralast private label products branded products in those categories.
So we actually increased that.
And as you look forward we continue to believe that there is opportunity for us to find opportunities to introduce Duralast brand in other categories.
But clearly wiper blades is a great example of where we have introduced Duralast brand and have had great success with that.
And you know overall the customers have great acceptance of Duralast products and that continues to increase the penetration.
So specifically in the quarter was it more the mix shifting to categories where Duralast is strong or was it the launch of new extensions in the categories like wipers that drove it? I would say it was more the launch of some of those things like wipers and a few categories within failure related products that actually increased.
So it’s a good example of our ability to continue to promote the Duralast brand into other categories.
Got it.
And then if I could a last quick one because you guys brought it up traffic versus ticket going back over time.
It’d be easy if you just gave me the traffic or gave us the traffic and the ticket.
So would you do that?  And if not I have another way to ask it.
I think we kind of did.
We said that they were basically consistent.
They were consistent.
And if you were to compare the change versus three years ago sort of longer term? It’s all in traffic.
It’s all in traffic.
So at the end of the day people weren’t spending that much more it’s just they’re coming more.
Yeah.
I mean the average ticket may be going up an extra 1% or down 1% from quarter to quarter due to changes in commodities or whatever the case may be.
But the real change has been in the customer count trend.
Got it.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Great quarter.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
This is Alan Hatzimanolis in for Tony.
I guess first question for Bill Rhodes out of all of the changes in investment that you have made to your commercial business over the past few years which do you believe has made the greatest contribution in improving the receptivity of your installer customers to doing business with AutoZone? That’s a great question.
All of them and I really mean that.
If we would have done one without the other it wouldn’t have worked.
That’s been the beauty of this program that for a while we had a sales force a number of years ago but we didn’t have the foundational elements in place.
We didn’t have the right parts coverage we didn’t have the right service model.
And then we didn’t have somebody out telling our story.
If we did one without the other it wouldn’t work.
The beauty of what we have done is it’s been holistic it’s been focused on the customer and it’s been sustainable and that’s I think been the big change.
Okay.
And just as a follow up I think Bill that you indicated last quarter that with the new commercial Z Net the number of steps required to place an order dropped north of 20 to just four.
As your store level employees become more accustomed to the software do you plan on realizing efficiencies in terms of lower payroll levels or rather would you anticipate that this increase in disposable time would be focused more on outbound sales calls and other efforts to broaden the number of shops that you do business with? I think the biggest benefit is it reduces the amount of time that you have to transact business with your customer.
So if the customer is sitting there and you have to go through 20 steps it’s a little bit frustrating to them.
The amount of time we’re not ever going to see that time in payroll because it’s such small amounts.
But it will allow them more time to help DIY customers make outbound sales calls work on inventory management - whatever the case may be.
You know another point too is that Bill talked before about the one team concept where we have got commercial out on the desk and being able to have DIY and commercial being serviced the same.
The simplicity of the system really allows more people to operate the system.
Before it was just too complex and now it’s very intuitive and very similar to the way our DIY Z Net system works.
Okay.
And maybe one last question if I could - it looked like this was the second quarter where increased legal expenses year over year were called out as a drag on operating expenses.
Can you give us a sense as to what is behind this and should we expect this type of year over year increase until it cycles into Q4 ’10 levels? Yeah.
I mean it’s really primarily concerned with one particular case but we’re involved in cases all the time and we continually evaluate them and adjust the reserve based on facts and circumstances during the quarter.
So that’s really what transpired this quarter.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Hey everybody.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Two things - one a question on the operating cash flow.
It appears like for this quarter that the operating cash flow was greater than the EBITDA for the first time at least in history that I’ve seen.
I’m just wondering if there’s anything kind of one time in there or seasonal in there to think about and then I had a follow up.
I don’t think there’s anything really one time necessarily Aram.
I think that we have continually done a pretty good job (conducting) inventory and CAPEX may have been a little bit lighter this quarter but not dramatically.
So I don’t think I would think about it as a one-timer.
Okay.
And then your neighbor in Tennessee and I know you guys know them real well Dollar General yesterday on their conference call said that they were looking to use some cash to buy back some of the leases and own more stores.
I know you own already a good portion of your stores.
I’m wondering in terms of use of proceeds from the cash flow you’re generating where that fits or if you have thought along the same lines as they are.
We have and we have for a while.
And we continually go back and identify opportunities to renegotiate leases that are coming up given the environment that we’re operating in today from an economic standpoint.
And then we’re also taking opportunities to buy out leases where we think that it makes economic sense for us.
So we continue to evaluate the exact same thing.
Is that presenting kind of an incremental value as they seem to suggest or is it kind of a…? I think it’s a slight incremental value and obviously we only do it where it makes sense.
We’re not doing a significant number of them but we are finding opportunities.
Okay.
Thanks.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Good morning John.
Just quickly Bill when you talk about inventory I mean I know you spent a lot of time in the last several years with line reviews and preparing for commercial and adding inventory.
But how does this macro environment that we have today with more miles on the cars how does that change your merchandise mix as you look longer term and trying to plan these hub stores for appropriate levels of inventory?  Are we seeing a consumer shift down or what has been the pattern of if you dive into the product mix? That’s a great question.
First of all it makes you take another look at how quickly you want to exit product categories because vehicles are being held longer.
And so if anything the bell curve is getting flatter or wider and so you are having to re-evaluate when you want to exit certain categories.
But the beauty of the model that we have in place today with the hub stores is that we don’t have to replicate that inventory coverage in 4400 stores.
We can put it in 145 stores and then leverage it in those 4400 stores.
So I talked about the importance of this program that we have on our hub stores to right size them and make sure that they are in the right place.
That is going to be a very important part of our strategy as we go forward.
It’s going to take us a while.
We have a significant number of stores that frankly don’t have the product offering that we want today because they are simply too small.
And so we are going through a process where we are going to expand some of them in existing locations.
We are going to relocate a couple of them to larger locations and then relocate some of them to put them in the proper retail and commercial center relocations.
And secondly Bill I was intrigued your comments about online that customer.
Can you talk a little bit about obviously the online business for auto parts is fairly small today.
What are the - going forward what do you think are the attributes or the things that have to happen to make that grow going forward?  And why are you optimistic that you can deliver that? I think one of the things Bill mentioned before was that a large portion of our customers get online to get information about the part and availability and to some extent pricing before they come to the store.
And so we have seen our percent of visitors increase significantly over the last year.
And so what we’re aimed at is having a seamless shopping experience for our customers so that they are able to shop online if that is convenient for them or to get online and get a significant amount of information about the product.
They can also get online and retrieve repair information and provide them with a wealth of information over and above what we can give at the counter.
So it’s all about trustworthy advice and then also it’s also about expansion of assortment as well.
And so obviously online we have the ability to provide a larger assortment than we do inside the box.
So again we want it to be a seamless shopping experience and we want to continue to be able to promote trustworthy advice.
And we’re getting a significant amount of visitors coming to our site and that is increasing.
So we know that we’re doing something right.
Great.
Congratulations guys.
Thanks.
Thank you John.
Good morning.
This is Ivan Holman sitting in for Kate.
Congratulations first of all on a great quarter.
My first question kind of touches upon market share.
We were wondering where are you taking share from?  Where do you think your largest opportunities are in terms of continuing to gain share?  Is most of it coming from the larger competitors or the smaller mom and pop shops and dealerships?  Where do you see your largest opportunities there? Okay.
I’ll try.
I’m having a little bit of trouble hearing you but your question was regarding share and I’ll start with commercial.
Commercial our share is miniscule at this point in time.
So it’s not about how large our share where it’s coming from - we’re really in the introductory phase in commercial.
But we’re introducing ourselves very fast and very well at this point in time.
To retail I think it’s certainly a more important gauge for us.
And when we talk about share we’re referring to MPD market share and there are only really the larger competitors are the only ones that are participating in MPD today.
So when we say we’re gaining share in retail and commercial it’s versus the remaining market that contributes to MPD and there are about eight or nine companies that contribute to that.
I do not know although I would expect that we’re gaining share versus the mom and pops in the other parts but I can’t confirm that with data like we can with MPD.
The MPD information on where we’re gaining share in the retail business is in virtually every geographic area and in almost virtually every category.
So it’s across the board and obviously we’re gaining some of that share because we’re expanding our number of outlets but I think we’re gaining it because we’ve got the right product assortment and the right service model.
Great.
Thanks a lot for the clarification.
And a quick follow up if I may - with regards to private label penetration as you are ramping up your e-commerce platform can you provide some color if there is any difference in terms of penetration rates in the stores versus on e-commerce Web site and how you expect that to evolve?  Thank you.
Yeah.
We don’t expect to see any difference.
The product offering is going to be relatively similar albeit slightly expanded on the e-commerce site.
But again it will be the same representation and as we mentioned before Duralast is a great branded product and is very well received by the customers both online and at the store.
Thank you.
Hey guys.
How are you? Great.
How are you Scott? Not too bad.
You guys are obviously doing a lot of good things.
You’re putting up good results but you also mentioned Bill the positive impact that weather had on your business a couple of times during the call.
I’m just wondering when you look at the composition of your sales is there any way to put an estimate on the impact that weather may have had?  And I know over the long term it’s going to balance itself out but just trying to figure out kind of what the impact was this particular quarter.
It’s very hard to determine a specific amount and we have some outside sources that help us try to estimate it but again I’ll highlight that it’s an estimate.
But you could think about it being maybe 20% or so of our growth in same store sales.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then I guess my next question is you had talked about you’re still seeing the strongest growth rates in both the failure and maintenance categories kind of a little bit softer in the discretionary.
That makes sense.
It’s pretty similar to kind of what you have been seeing for a while.
Have you or are you willing to put kind of growth rates on those different categories at this stage? Looking forward? No.
Kind of what we have seen in terms of is it failure is - I don’t know comping at a 12% rate maintenance is a 9% rate?  Is there any better way to kind of create the ranges or let us think about the ranges? I don’t think they’re probably as wide as you’re thinking necessarily.
I think it’s failure related parts are growing at a faster rate than the other ones.
Everything is growing so it’s not as though something is negative necessarily.
So they’re all growing at a healthy rate and failure is growing probably the fastest followed by maintenance.
Got it.
All right.
Thanks a lot guys.
All right.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Thanks a lot for taking my question.
Bill if I clarify some of the comments you made earlier a few years ago technological innovation led to a lull in the industry as some of the products that lasted longer meant that demand suffered a little bit.
Is there any evidence that a similar trend might occur this time around? Rather than on the product side is it on the consumer side where we’re seeing maybe a release of pent up demand?  And as some of the work is done that’ll lead to slower trends that you’ll sort of have to make some of those investments in the next year or so? Yeah.
I’ll start with the technological phenomenon is still ongoing today.
You take carburetors and fuel injectors there’s 1000 examples of where the systems on the vehicle have changed and the failure rates have been reduced.
But the cost of those products are so much more.
What’s changed now is the customer’s behavior.
The customers are more focused on maintaining their vehicles today than they were three or four years ago.
And if you go back to that period of time maybe there were more headwinds out there than we realized.
Maybe new car sales were more of a headwind.
Maybe people were turning their cars more frequently therefore they weren’t maintaining them at the right level.
Certainly when gas prices got over $4 a gallon that was a major headwind.
But I think that there has been and obviously you’ve seen it - we’ve gone through the Great Recession and it’s the toughest economic times that this country has ever seen since the Great Depression.
And I think people have changed their mindset and they have changed their mindset on how they deal with debt.
They have changed their mindset with how they deal with one of their most valuable assets which is their vehicles.
And although we don’t know what the future is going to hold my suspicion is that there is going to be some long-term benefit that is going to be positive for our industry out of people focused on taking better care of their vehicles and not buying and selling as frequently.
That’s very helpful.
And then second question - as you reflect on the wave of growth the industry has seen over the last few years have you seen any changes in the competitive behavior of the other players from then until now? Well first of all I think our competitors are very good competitors.
They run very good businesses.
I wouldn’t say that their business models have changed materially not in the way that we see them out there.
But they are very good at what they do and they’re getting better every day and if we don’t get better they’re going to catch up to us.
So it’s on us to get better.
Okay.
Good luck with the rest of the year.
Thank you.
Thanks a lot.
Good morning and congratulations on a strong quarter.
Thank you.
Two questions - the first is just a follow up on the Internet business and just as you’ve spoken about it I think you’ve spoken about it largely in a B2C context and it would seem like there is a huge cost opportunity at least in terms of B2B and commercial customers.
So as you’re getting much deeper penetration with the commercial customer base what’s your sense for their appetite or at least their receptivity to movement here?  And do you think being first to market with a great platform would be an asset in that space? Yeah.
I mean just to be clear we’re not first to market necessarily.
I mean there are others that have much higher penetration.
But we believe that with the new platform that we have launched and the receptivity that we’re seeing that we have significant opportunity to increase our penetration on that side of the business.
We do see good receptivity and I think that the consumers the customers are continuing to migrate to that.
And it’s going to be a shop by shop event because some shops only deal in electronic ordering and others simply don’t.
But one thing’s for sure it certainly allows us an opportunity to garner market share particularly with those shops that are very focused on electronic ordering.
But I do think long term that the penetration will continue to increase and it’ll become a much more acceptable way of conducting business for even the up and down the street shops.
Got it.
And sorry is there a real cost advantage to you?  Is there a real cost advantage to you (for doing it)? I don’t think there is a significant cost advantage.
I think it’s more about our ability to be able to streamline the process for both the customer and ourselves.
There is probably some; it’s too early to quantify what that would be.
But the real focus of what we’re trying to accomplish is providing our customers who choose to shop that way or execute their business that way a great platform by which to execute it.
Great.
And then my second question just really is to the underlying SG&amp;A run rate.
Obviously you had the kind of quarter that gives you the opportunity to put a lot of money to work in a lot of different initiatives and incentive compensation.
If you think about an environment where sales might not be as robust and it doesn’t seem like that’s the case right now what kind of underlying SG&amp;A growth should we assume is sort of the normal steadyscape for you? I think that the one thing that the organization has demonstrated over time if you look over the last year or two or five years there is an ability to manage the cost structure in accordance with the sales environment that we’re operating in.
And if you look over the last year you’re right.
We have had a great opportunity to be able to invest in some initiatives that we believe are actually contributing to the results that we’re experiencing today.
And so we’re going to continue to manage it that way and at the same time allow ourselves to be nimble so that we can pull back where we need to if in fact sales were to change.
Guys thank you so much.
Thanks Matt.
Thank you.
Hi.
It’s Mark Becks on for Chris.
Just coming back to the hub store expansion do you guys have an idea at this point - I think you did two relos of the hub stores this current quarter - of what kind of numbers behind potential relocations or additional sizing? Yeah.
I mean we do have numbers particularly on the additional sizing more so than the relos because we know today what products are not in the stores that we want in the stores and they’re in other hub stores and we can see what their performance is like.
Obviously we’re not going to share what those  numbers are but they are certainly sufficient to allow us to move forward with a relocation or expansion strategy on virtually all of the hubs that we have today and that will allow us to achieve reasonable IRR in excess of our hurdle rate.
So we’re very excited about it.
We have very good visibility to what we think is going to happen because of the other hubs and we’re working very rapidly to make it happen.
Okay.
And just kind of switching gears the acceleration of comps you spoke to that being from execution and perhaps I was wondering if you’re seeing anything on that end maybe from a better customer or the customer feeling a little bit better about their pocketbooks? I wouldn’t say that.
I think that obviously our business took off when they got more concerned about their pocketbooks.
I haven’t seen or I don’t think we have seen any material change in their mindset over the last six to nine months.
Yeah.
I think our traffic continues to be healthy and we’re obviously probably experiencing new people into the industry and the mix of sales that we have from a product perspective we’re probably seeing some customers that are actually doing more failure related work than they have in the past.
Okay.
And then just finally I guess speaking to the discretionary it looked like it was flat 15% and 15%.
Is there anything that you’re maybe seeing in your business now that would lead you to believe that the typical seasonality would be anything different going forward? No.
Not at all.
As you would expect discretionary categories are discretionary by nature.
And in this time of economic challenge people aren’t as likely to change out their floor mats or to do other discretionary things.
Great.
Thanks.
All right.
Thank you.
Go ahead.
Okay.
Thanks.
Before we conclude the call I'd like to take a moment to reiterate that our business model remained very very strong.
We remain excited about our growth prospects for the upcoming year.
We cannot take anything for granted as we understand our customers have alternatives.
Our culture remains our key points of differentiation from our competition and we must not lose sight of the importance of basic store execution in order to remain successful.
We have a solid plan for 2011 and we’re excited about our opportunities.
But I want to stress that this is a marathon and not a sprint.
As we continue to focus on the basics and never take our eye off of optimizing long-term shareholder value we are highly confident AutoZone will continue to be incredibly successful.
Lastly I’d like to wish everyone a very happy holiday season and a prosperous new year.
Thank you for participating in today's call.
Have a great day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and welcome to the AutoZone Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference call will discuss AutoZone's second quarter financial results.
Bill Rhodes the company's Chairman President and CEO will be making a short presentation on the highlights of the quarter.
The conference call will end promptly at 10 a.m.
Central Time 11 a.m.
Eastern Time.
Before Mr.
Rhodes begins the company has requested that you listen to the following statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use words such as believe anticipate should intend plan will expect estimate project positioned strategy and similar expressions.
These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends current conditions expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including without limitation: credit market conditions the impact of recessionary conditions competition product demand the ability to hire and retain qualified employees consumer debt levels inflation weather raw material cost of our suppliers energy prices war and the prospect of war including terrorist activity availability of consumer transportation construction delays access to available and feasible financing and changes in laws or regulations.
Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 28 2010 and these risk factors should be read carefully.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone's Fiscal 2011 Second Quarter Conference Call.
With me today are Bill Giles Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Store Development and IT; and Brian Campbell Vice President Treasurer Investor Relations and Tax.
Regarding the second quarter I hope you had an opportunity to read our press release and learn about the quarter's results.
If not the press release along with slides complementing our comments today is available on our website www.autozoneinc.com.
Please click on quarterly earnings conference calls to see them.
We are very pleased to announce another very strong quarter of performance both financially and operationally.
Our earnings per share for the second quarter increased by 35.8% our best performance since the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 and our domestic same-store sales increased 7.1%.
This marks the ninth consecutive quarter of EPS growth in excess of 20% and the 18th consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth.
I'd like to start our call this morning by thanking all our AutoZoners across North America for their exceptional efforts to deliver on our 1TEAM Going the Extra Mile operating theme in 2011.
We have made consistent progress on each of our initiatives which include hiring retaining and training the best AutoZoners enhancing our hub network leveraging the Internet profitably growing Commercial and improving our product assortment and inventory management efforts.
I'll go into more detail later on these initiatives.
However I'd like to point out that none of these initiatives are radical departures from the initiatives we began over five years ago.
I'm confident in saying we believe the strategies we have in place work for the long term.
And as evidenced by the last several years they work in varying economic cycles year in and year out.
We intentionally have not made dramatic changes to our long-term strategies.
This has allowed the organization to understand and embrace our strategies and to execute at an exceptionally high level ultimately delivering great customer service.
Our past successes give us confidence that our strategies will position AutoZone for continued growth both in sales and earnings in all segments of our business Domestic Retail Domestic Commercial Mexico and ALLDATA.
Regarding our second quarter results our Total Auto Parts segment made up of both our Domestic and Mexico businesses delivered a 10.3% sales increase.
Our other businesses made up of ALLDATA and E-Commerce were up 11.2%.
There is no question that our industry is experiencing strong growth in both Retail and Commercial sectors and our competitors have also reported solid growth trends.
However based on sales data provided to us through NPD our share of both the Retail and Commercial businesses continue to grow for the quarter.
In fact we gained share for the quarter and according to the detail we gained share each month of the quarter November December and January.
We believe that the initiatives we highlighted earlier have directly contributed to our ability to increase market share during this period of time.
Servicing the customer and providing the degree of trustworthy advice our customers have come to expect from us continues to be a key point of differentiation in the marketplace.
We're on a mission everyday to get 4 674 stores delivering a level of WOW! Customer Service that cannot be matched by our competition.
While we provide systems and inventory to help in this effort it all starts with the AutoZoner in the store committing his or her time to addressing our customers' needs.
It takes listening and giving an extra effort or as we call it going the extra mile.
At the same time we have been proactive to invest in those activities that will drive long-term growth.
We've added support at the store level to really differentiate ourselves during these times.
I travel significantly every year.
I see a lot of stores across the U.S.
and in Mexico and I've talked to a lot of our customers from each of our four areas of concentration.
What I see and hear gives me confidence that the strategies we've chosen to implement are the right ones.
We continue to make simple continual well thought out refinements of our efforts and when you add them together they are meaningful to our customers and drive differentiation in the marketplace as evidenced by our performance.
I'll take a moment here to talk more specifically about our second quarter performance in a little more detail.
As I mentioned our domestic same-store sales grew at 7.1% for the quarter.
Our second quarter which ended February 12 is typically our lowest sales volume quarter.
And given the holiday periods coupled with weather it can be and was choppier.
Clearly the severe weather during the late part of the quarter was challenging although we believe that over time weather impacts even out.
In addition we have heard from other retailers as well as our field personnel that tax refunds had not materialized during January as they did last year.
Again we believe that a large portion of this will likely be timing.
Quantifying the impact of either of these is difficult.
But rather than focus on items we cannot directly control what we did was focus on the following: adding additional inventory coverage continually refining our hub store operations and merchandise assortment and improving our commercial sales and operations activities.
Regarding our Commercial results we reported this morning the third straight quarter of 20% plus sales growth and our ninth straight quarter of accelerating sales growth in this sector.
Although we are very pleased with our rate of growth we recognize that we currently have a small percentage of market share which represents a tremendous opportunity for us.
I'd also like to recognize our other businesses.
ALLDATA and E-Commerce are having another fine quarter up 11% in sales from this time last year.
Now let me give a little color on our mix of sales.
The mix continues to be dominated by failure and maintenance-related categories as discretionary sales were much smaller contributor.
While failure remained the largest mix at 47% of our total sales maintenance was steady with last quarter at 40%.
A unique call out for the quarter was we would have expected to see failure categories trend even higher on the quarter as our second quarter the winter months do not enjoy as much color or I'll call it detailing as the summer months do.
However our estimation was failure was delayed a bit due to the inability of our customer to get outside and do those failure-related jobs they usually do given the weather impacts and due to the later timing of the tax refunds this year.
That said we have been within a 1% to 2% range by category quarter-after-quarter with no fundamental shifts.
This quarter we were pleased with both our customer count and average ticket growth rates.
Average ticket remains strong consistent with previous quarters.
However transactions while still positive were lower than last quarter's growth rates.
We performed well across North America and excluding weather-impacted time frames enjoyed strong performance in all regions.
Regarding our execution we continue to believe that superior execution can be a sustainable point of differentiation for us.
In an industry where changes to vehicle technology brands and systems are constant we have been keenly focused on evaluating the most efficient ways that we can fulfill our customers' needs.
With our hub store conversions and continual refinements to our hard parts assortment we've been adding significant amounts of merchandise.
This past quarter we proactively added new coverage into our inventory assortment earlier in the year than last year so that we will be better prepared for the spring selling season.
A majority of these additions remain new coverage.
As the average age of cars on the road have only increased the last few years we're seeing the distribution by age of parts sold widening at both ends.
While a seven-year-old and older vehicle is our kind of vehicle on the retail front those customers on the "end older front" continue to shop with us.
And the demands from our commercial customers continue to offer us opportunities to drive parts additions earlier in the vehicle life cycle.
Additionally we have been very focused on leveraging the Internet across a variety of fronts.
Over the past quarter we announced several partnerships with shop management firms to make our catalog of products available on their sites.
We also announced the launch of our upgraded ALLDATA Manage 4.9 shop management software and announced partnerships with third-party firms to offer their parts ordering interfaces through ALLDATA Manage 4.9.
We've been very pleased with our progress on developing our Internet offerings but we are in the very early innings of our ability to test the growing customer segment that utilizes this venue for ordering their parts.
Obviously more to come on this in the future.
Lastly on the people front we improved our training area efforts and we added AutoZoners to grow the business both for Retail and Commercial.
We've also intensified our training efforts particularly on the Commercial side of the business.
Next I'll give an update on our 2011 initiatives that support our operating plan theme of 1TEAM Going the Extra Mile.
1TEAM is about our desire to ensure that we're providing the very best customer service experience to every customer regardless of how they choose to interact with us.
This effort is around streamlining systems removing obstacles and reinforcing to AutoZoners to always put customers first.
1TEAM Going the Extra Mile is supported by our 2011 key priorities: great people providing great service continual refinements and improvements in our hub strategy leveraging the Internet profitably growing Commercial ever improving inventory management and improved product assortments.
As I already talked about our training efforts and our 1TEAM approach let me discuss the hub strategy.
At this time a year ago we had completed only 82 hub conversions out of our base of 145.
By the end of our fiscal year in August we'd converted all of our hub locations to multiple daily deliveries to their respective satellite stores.
This year we're refining our efforts.
This past quarter we actually merged two hubs into one as they were close to each other and finished with a total of 144 hubs.
We have also expanded or in the process of expanding or relocating approximately 25 hub locations.
While the hub conversions and their more aggressive delivery model have created some pressure on SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales we see that pressure abating as the year rolls on.
Obviously we'll anniversary these conversions at the end of the fourth quarter.
The performance of our hub stores continues to give us great encouragement.
We continue to deploy new parts coverage in our hub stores to meet the needs of our customers.
Parts proliferation in our industry is not stopping and our hub efforts are allowing us to more strategically deploy our inventory assortments.
Lastly I will reiterate.
Our organization has performed well and our financial performance has remained healthy.
I attribute this solid financial performance to our business model and of course our culture.
Our planning efforts are exceptional as we feel we have good visibility into business trends and our team is committed to managing to those trends appropriately.
We've been very deliberate in how we manage expenses and capital in order to deliver consistent strong financial performance and position our business for long-term growth and we will continue with this strategy well into the future.
We should also highlight another strong performance in return on invested capital as we were able to grow this metric to 29.3% on a trailing four-quarter basis which represents another new all-time high for our organization.
We will always maintain our diligence regarding capital stewardship.
Before I ask Bill Giles to take over the commentary I know many are concerned about the industry's ability to do as well in calendar 2011 as it did the last several years and that's a fair point.
We are up against more difficult comparisons going forward.
Frankly more difficult to your comparisons than we have seen in quite some time.
But we think the industry remains healthy.
We believe many of the same dynamics that were in place last year affecting our customers exist today.
At the same time our financial modeling efforts are always based on conservative assumptions.
But our industry remains extremely fragmented in DIY and especially in DIFM.
We see the smaller players in our space remain under pressure from the larger players and this is no different than other categories.
I think it is important to remind everyone when we discuss NPD market share those statistics represent only the small set of large players in the industry who report their sales information to NPD.
There is a much larger share both in DIY and DIFM that is outside of the NPD data set.
We want to continue to gain share in both the share that is included in NPD as well as the significant business that is excluded from this data.
And while we have great respect for all of our competitors the past results show we are continuing to gain share year-over-year.
Now I'll turn it over to Bill Giles to talk about our financial results for the quarter.
Bill? Thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone.
To start this morning let me take a few moments to talk more specifically about our Retail Commercial and Mexico results for the quarter.
For the quarter Total Auto Parts sales increased 10.3% versus last year's second quarter's growth of 4.1%.
This segmentation includes our Domestic Retail and Commercial businesses and our Mexico stores.
This quarter we completed category line reviews in 13 of our 40 major merchandise categories improving our parts coverage remains a key priority.
Now regarding macro trends during the second quarter unleaded gas prices started out at $2.88 a gallon and rose steadily finishing the quarter at $3.13 a gallon.
Last year gas prices were stable throughout the second quarter between $2.63 to $2.75 a gallon.
While gas prices have increased we believe they were not a meaningful driver positive or negative to our sales results over the last quarter.
Although we are always mindful of the moves in oil prices and how they ultimately can correlate to prices at the pump it's our belief the consumer has grown accustomed to prices within the current range.
One of the data points showing the consumer is used to these prices is the spike over the last several months in light trucks sport-utility sales in the U.S.
They in fact outnumbered cars in units sold for the first time in a while.
As trucks tend to have lower gas mileage this tells us prices at the pump in this range have been accepted by consumers.
Miles driven remains less of a story to our near-term sales results than in previous years.
Recently October November showed positive upward trends 2% and 1.1% respectively in spite of any gas price impact.
While recently we have seen minimal correlation in our sales performance with miles driven historically it has been one of the key statistics which correlate to our sales results over the long term.
The other is the number of seven-year and older vehicles on the road which continues to trend in our industry's favor.
For the trailing four quarters Total Auto Parts sales per square foot were $255.
This statistic continues to set the pace for the rest of the industry.
For the quarter total Commercial sales increased 21.2%.
Our strong results which began to accelerate in Q1 of 2010 continued in our second quarter.
As we have said previously we've been very pleased with the progress we are making in this business both operationally and financially.
We believe there are ample opportunities for us to continue to improve in many facets of our operations and offerings.
And therefore we are quite optimistic about the future of this business.
Our sales growth has come from both existing and new customers.
We continue to believe we can grow revenues in existing stores and we will continue to open additional commercial programs.
This past quarter we opened 43 new programs in markets we believe have strong potential.
Year-to-date we've opened 97 new programs a substantial acceleration from the last several years.
We now have our commercial program in 2 521 stores supported by 144 hub stores.
With just 57% of our domestic stores having a commercial program we believe there is ample opportunity for additional program growth.
We remain committed to building a platform for long-term growth growth in both sales and profits.
Our focus this past quarter was to build upon the commercial initiatives that have been in place for well over a year.
We continue to watch our sales force mature from its inception just three years ago.
We are also training and introducing technology to optimize the productivity of our sales force.
We have increased our efforts around analyzing customer purchasing trends and in-stock trends.
It's these learnings that have pushed us to add inventory coverage and additional programs.
We've had 15 consecutive quarters of sales growth.
We have a model that is successful and we are continuing to test additional enhancements to our offerings.
In addition to our focus on further developing our sales force we have continued to add significant resources to our Commercial business from additional late-model coverage both in satellite and hub stores to additional labor hours and trucks.
In summary the Commercial business remains on track and we're excited about our continuing opportunities.
Our Mexico stores continue to perform well.
We opened eight new stores during the second quarter and currently have 249 stores in Mexico.
We remain resolute in our strategy to open stores at a steady pace while managing our Mexico business for the long run.
Our ongoing commitment remains to prudently and profitably grow the Mexico business.
Recapping our second quarter performance for the company in total our sales for the second quarter were $1 661 000 000 an increase of 10.3% from last year's second quarter.
Domestic same-store sales or sales for stores open more than one year were up 7.1% for the quarter.
Now turning to our financial results.
Gross margin for the quarter was 50.9% of sales up 87 basis points compared to last year's second quarter.
The improvement in gross margin was attributable to higher margins on merchandise growth and lower shrink expense.
The increased merchandise gross margins continued to benefit this quarter from increased penetration of Duralast product sales and lower acquisition costs.
I would also be remiss if I didn't acknowledge the tremendous cross functional work led by our loss prevention team regarding our shrink improvements.
In regards to inflation and its impacts on comp store sales performance we have not experienced any significant impact.
Although by category there have been some fluctuations taken as a whole they have offset each other.
We do not currently expect inflation to play a large role in same-store sale results for this fiscal year.
However we cannot be sure as commodity pricing is the main driver in this area.
Thus far into the year inflation has not had a significant impact.
Looking forward we continue to believe there remains opportunity for gross margin expansion.
However we do not manage to a targeted gross profit margin percentage.
We are focused on growing absolute gross profit dollars.
And gross profit dollars in our Total Auto Parts segment were up 12.4% for the quarter.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 34.6% of sales down 20 basis points from last year's second quarter.
Leverage and SG&amp;A expenses as a percent of sales was driven by our 7.1% same-store sales results.
This leverage was offset in part by increased incentive compensation costs increased investments in our hub store initiatives and higher advertising expenditures.
I should also point out that last year's second quarter benefited from a favorable credit card class action settlement that benefited SG&amp;A by $2.6 million or 17 basis points.
Regarding our advertising spend we moved a portion of it from Q3 to Q2 in order to increase our exposure part of the spring selling season.
While our operating expense percentage growth has increased over the last two years we continue to purposely invest these dollars to position the company for future sales growth.
This organization takes great pride in our disciplined approach to managing our cost structure and leveraging our culture of thrift and we remain committed to appropriately managing expenses in line with overall performance.
We continue to be well positioned to manage our cost structure for this foreseeable future.
EBIT for the quarter was $272 million up 18% over last year's second quarter.
Our EBIT margin improved to 16.4% or 107 basis points versus the previous year's second quarter.
Interest expense for the quarter was $39.6 million compared with $36.3 million in Q2 a year ago a 9% increase.
Debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $3 249 000 000 or approximately $475 million more than last year's balance of $2 775 000 000.
Our adjusted debt level metric finished the quarter at 2.5x EBITDAR.
While in any given quarter we may increase or decrease debt levels based on management's opinion regarding debt and equity market conditions we remain committed to both our investment grade rating and our capital allocation strategy.
And share repurchases are an important element of that strategy.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 36.2% down from last year's second quarter of 36.4% and we expect to be closer to 37% on an ongoing basis.
Net income for the quarter of $148 million was up 20% versus the prior year's second quarter.
Our diluted share count of 44.4 million was down approximately 12% from last year's quarter.
Combination of these factors drove earnings per share for the quarter to $3.34 up 35.8% over the prior year's second quarter.
Relating to the cash flow statement for the second fiscal quarter of 2011 we generated $84 million of operating cash flow.
While year-to-date we've generated $92 million more in operating cash flow $34 million lower number in Q2 was driven by the increase in net inventory.
We continue to remain focused on increasing operating cash flow in 2011.
We repurchased 394 million of Autozone stock in the second quarter.
And at the end of the quarter we had $491 million remaining under our share buyback authorization.
We continue to view our share repurchase program as an attractive capital deployment strategy like to-date we've bought $9.4 billion of our stock back.
Accounts payable as a percent of gross inventory finished the quarter at 104% versus 95% in last year's second quarter.
Next I'd like to update you on our inventory levels in total and on a per store basis.
We reported an inventory balance of $2.4 billion up 7% versus the Q2 ending balance last year.
While this does reflect more growth than in past quarters the second quarter historically reflects a higher level of per store inventory due to ordering up and stocking for the spring selling season.
Additionally this year we intentionally accelerated some hard part category updates into the second quarter in an effort to ensure we were well prepared for the critical spring selling season.
Net fixed assets were up 7% versus last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $63 million and reflected the additional expenditures required to open 29 new stores this quarter maintenance on existing stores and work on development of new stores for upcoming quarters.
With the new stores opened we finished this past quarter with 4 425 stores in 48 states the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico and 249 stores in Mexico for a total store count of 4 674.
Depreciation totaled $44.1 million for the quarter versus last year's second quarter expense of $44.5 million.
Our senior unsecured debt rating from Standard &amp; Poor's is BBB and we have a commercial paper rating of A-2.
Moody's Investors Service has assigned us a senior unsecured debt rating of Baa2 and a commercial paper rating of P2 and Fitch has assigned us a senior unsecured rating of BBB as well and a commercial paper rating of F2.
Finally our continued disciplined capital management approach resulted in return on invested capital for the trailing four quarters of 29.3%.
We have and will continue to make investments that we believe will generate returns that significantly exceed our cost of capital.
Now I'll turn it back to Bill Rhodes.
Thanks Bill.
Before we conclude the call I want to reiterate that our industry's performance has been strong for the last couple of years.
But I believe our team's commitment to our culture and our customers combined with our initiatives has contributed significantly to our success as evidenced by our continuing growth in market share in both Retail and Commercial.
While our AutoZoners across the organization deserve credit for our past successes we promise to remain committed to continuing to improve our business model and our operations focusing on continual refinements but not radical change.
We have an exceptional business model that still has tremendous opportunities for further improvement.
On April 1 we will celebrate our 20-year anniversary as a public company.
In preparation for this event we have looked back at the last 20 years.
During that period of time we have grown our domestic store count from 553 stores to 4 425.
We have added Commercial Mexico and ALLDATA.
Our sales have grown at a compound annual growth rate of 13% while our earnings per share has grown at 17% compounded annually.
On a split adjusted basis our stock has grown from $5.75 to $255 representing a total return of over 4 300%.
I'm not personally familiar with many companies that have had that kind of sustained performance over a 20-year period.
And while our past is impressive we believe our future is very bright as well.
We still have significant opportunities to expand our DIY business on a per store basis and by adding new stores.
Our Commercial business is performing very well but has tremendous opportunities for growth.
Our Mexico business is only 12 years old and has substantial opportunities for growth as well and ALLDATA continues to grow its base business while also finding exciting expansion opportunities like collision and shop management.
For the balance of fiscal 2011 we will continue to focus on our key priorities great people providing great service continual refinements and improvements in our hub strategy leveraging the Internet profitably growing commercial ever improving inventory management and improving our product assortment.
Finally before we move to Q&amp;A I want to again thank and congratulate our entire organization for their dedication to our customers fellow AutoZoners stockholders and our communities.
Our approach remains consistent.
We're focused on again succeeding in 2011 and we are optimistic and excited about the second half of the year.
Now we'd like to open up the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from John Lawrence of Morgan Keegan.
Inc.</strong> Bill would you comment just a little bit digging into Commercial a little bit the two pieces if you took those converted hub stores and separated those from the base of those that have not been converted what would be the delta there on sales improvements? Well John we finished the conversions at the end of the calendar year back in August.
And clearly the hub stores that we converted earlier came out of the gate very strong but they continue to grow at an accelerated rate even what three to four years after they were initially opened.
But they grow both on the DIY side and the Commercial side of the business.
We think they give us some great opportunity to better leverage our inventory assortment put more product into the local marketplace.
And frankly we've been very impressed with how they've performed so far which is what's leading us to this relocation or expansion strategy of our hub stores where frankly in quite a few of our hub stores we don't have the amount of inventory in those stores because we simply don't have the space.
So although we've been very impressed with our results today we think we still have a long way to go.
Inc.</strong> And secondly on that as you have that success with that and the shop management starts to work and you're getting that call or tied into that customer how does that change your real estate profile as far as the number of stores that you could see that you could have in a particular market? Yes it's a great question.
If you look at what's happening in the Commercial side of the business and heard our competitors talk about it as well more and more online ordering or electronic ordering is growing fairly rapidly.
It's still a very small percentage of the day-to-day but has great opportunities for the future.
And frankly it just makes all the sense in the world to leverage the great technology that exists today to make the transaction more efficient for both the customer and for us.
With ALLDATA it provides us a distinct advantage to integrate our electronic ordering very seamlessly within the ALLDATA Manage 4.9 product and we're very excited about that.
That is just now beginning.
But we think the future's going to be great.
As far as opening new programs I don't necessarily know that electronic ordering or shop management systems are going to change that over time.
As you can tell from what's happened over the last 12 months we've opened a couple of hundred new programs on Commercial I think were up about 9%.
So we're continuing to expand our footprint.
We think we can go significantly farther than we are today.
But we want to continue to do it in a prudent and profitable manner.
And so I think we'll continue to open programs over the long term.
And we think we'll be profitable in doing so.
Our next question is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Bill I'm trying to get a better sense of the incremental impact from growing Commercial on your financial statements.
We recognize this is incremental revenues gross margin rate on Commercial is lower than the house average.
But can you talk about the incremental SG&amp;A investment that you need at a store? In other words is it providing leverage on SG&amp;A or is it initially is it an expense headwind? Then also if you could walk through the capital investment again the incremental capital investment to support the Commercial growth.
Yes.
Sure Dan.
I'll start with the capital investment first.
It's very insignificant from a capital point of view.
There is some working capital that goes in for incremental inventory but as you can see with our accounts payable to inventory ratio we've been able to finance that through our vendors primarily.
On the operating expenses yes it has a lower gross margin.
It also has a higher SG&amp;A burden.
So as we've grown our Commercial business at an accelerated rate versus the rest of our business it presents a fairly significant SG&amp;A headwind.
Not only is it presenting an SG&amp;A headwind based upon its core components in the income statement but we're continuing to invest fairly significantly.
We've increased our sales force now to over 250 sales people.
Turning back the clock three years ago we didn't have any.
Obviously our incentive compensation in that business based on our performance has been significantly higher.
So it's creating a fairly significant headwind in SG&amp;A.
But at the end of the day the ROIC on it is frankly remarkable.
And so we're going to continue to pursue it.
It generates incremental operating profit dollars that we are very satisfied with the rates of return on.
Inc.</strong> I recognize the lower gross margin rate is inherent part of Commercial but is that also true for SG&amp;A? Or is there a point where let's say if you're generating $12 000 $13 000 in revenues per week per commercial program does that SG&amp;A burden change and actually begin to see some leverage? Clearly it changes for that part of the business.
There's no question about it.
Whether or not it is still slightly dilutive to the Retail business I think is yet to be determined for us.
We're just not that far along.
But clearly it would be less of a burden if we got to that point.
And also less of a burden once we get our full infrastructure rolled out to support the Commercial business.
Inc.</strong> The other question I had the gross margin improvement it looks like this is the biggest increase since the fourth quarter of 2006.
I recognize a big chunk of this is shrink which you have not talked about in the past.
Would your success in this quarter imply that you'll be able to reduce your shrink accrual during the balance of the year? Well we certainly have been very impressed with what the team has done on shrink.
And shrink is always a tough one to manage and the team has done a very good job.
So we've had a very good result and we would expect that to continue for the rest of the year.
But we still have continued stores to count and more work to be done there but we're pleased with the trend that we're seeing in shrink right now and it's attributed to a lot of hard work in the field.
Our next question is from Aram Rubinson with Nomura.
Just a clarification on the shrink and then one additional question.
Was that shrink a change in the rate or reversal of prior years? I'm just trying to put it in context in terms of how much can possibly be ongoing.
It's improved rate performance.
And would you mind giving us a little bit of color around the failure the maintenance and the discretionary categories if possible.
I know you mentioned failure was around 47% but how that trended year ago and whether there's been progress in discretionary and whether or not the change in the economy has any shifting in mix whether it's exhaust or transmissions or other things to kind of help you understand whether the underlying improvement in the economy is manifesting itself in your business in any way? Yes.
I would say there weren't any significant changes.
Clearly as we've mentioned in our previous remarks the failure-related categories were performing quite well then January hit and people didn't do those kind of jobs.
And so that impacted both the failure-related categories and our transaction count.
But outside of that period of time there's nothing terribly significant.
Our discretionary purchases have been challenged over time.
I think our team is doing a very good job there but frankly the economy is not terribly conducive to discretionary purchases at this point in time.
And so are there things that an improved rate of a new vehicle selling rates would be influencing your business or are you seeing anything around that? And then I'll leave you be.
First of all the SAAR is projected to go up by $1 million that hasn't necessarily happened yet.
We see no indications in our business of any impact from new car sales at this point in time.
And frankly that just doesn't happen overnight.
It will take some period of time some sustained period of time before we would see any impact of that.
So we don't see anything at this point.
Our next question is from Alan Rifkin with Bank of America.
First question for Bill Giles.
Bill you mentioned that you completed category line reviews in 13 of the 40 lines.
I was wondering specifically to those 13 what are you seeing with respect to incremental buying power and consolidation of vendors? For the category line reviews we're really focused predominantly on making sure that we got the best coverage and specifically later model coverage.
And one of the things that we changed this year I was trying to accelerate some of the category line reviews so that we would be in a better position as we entered the spring season.
And what that ultimately equated to was us receiving inventory a little bit earlier in the season so we think we're better prepared.
Relative to consolidation of vendors we haven't seen significant activity although there has been some consolidation of vendors.
We expect that to be a normal course of business over time and continue to have good relations with the vendors.
And second question if I may is for Bill Rhodes.
Bill with respect to the hub investment can you maybe shed a little bit more color on exactly what is happening within these 25 hubs where you relocated or expanded? Are you seeing the demand come incrementally greater? I mean why the incremental investment there relative to what you thought when you first build these 25 out? Yes let me clarify my previous comment.
We're going to be expanding or relocating 25 of them and we're going to do that.
If you recall when we first put our hub stores out what we generally did was take advantage of second-generation lease spaces where we had a significant incremental square footage that we were not utilizing.
That allowed us to go into the stores not have to pay anymore occupancy expense and put additional parts in place.
Well some of these stores are frankly just too small based upon the hub operating model and inventory assortment that we've defined that we want today.
But we can sit there and look at the stores that have ample space that have the right parts assortment and then look at the stores that are too small.
And we can see exactly with a pretty fine tooth comb what we think the sales will be if we expand and relocate those stores and are able to put the right inventory assortment in it.
So we have a very high degree of confidence that frankly we're sub-optimizing the inventory assortment and therefore the sales in those stores that are too small so we're going to relocate them or expand them.
So if you have not yet relocated or expanded those 25 then can you maybe shed a little bit more color on where the incremental expenses in the current quarter in the second quarter came from as it relates to the hub investment? I would say the hub investment if you retract time we expanded our program of doing 3x a day deliveries and completed that rollout in the end of Q4 of last year.
And so we're still anniversary-ing that incremental expense and that incremental impact to the organization.
So when we talk about hubs impacting SG&amp;A by 23 basis points we're really talking about the anniversary of that 3x a day delivery that we went in the hub conversions.
Relative to the expansion there really isn't any significant expenses that have been incurred to date and most of that will wind up being capital as we continue to expand those both the capital as well as inventory investment.
Our next question is from David Schick with Stifel.
Question first on these gas price spikes we've seen in the past could you just take us through your perspective on how the consumer reacts the DIY consumer in particular? Do they seek out efficiency products? Is there an impact we should be looking for on sales or mix? Yes at a high level I mean obviously volatility isn't helpful but we do believe as you just mentioned that there's plenty of tactics that we can take to communicate to the consumer during rising or volatile prices in order for them to save money whether it be air filters fuel injector cleaners and maybe even a locking gas cap.
So there's plenty of opportunities for us to communicate to the consumer on how they can increase their miles per gallon through some general maintenance items on their cars.
The other one I would probably point out too is if you kind of look back and think about it we've had 18 consecutive quarters of double-digit increase in EPS and certainly those 18 quarters covered the $4 spike that we incurred a couple of years ago.
So we've lived through this before.
We don't know what the future will hold.
We don't know exactly what gas prices will do in the future.
But we certainly have lived through some gas price volatility in the past and certainly that's an experience we're trying to take advantage of that particularly in communicating with the consumer on how they can improve their gas mileage.
As a second question could you talk about the long-term operating margin opportunity for Mexico the market opportunity and the growth there? But as it mixes in over time how should we think about what that does to your total margin? I would say the operating margin is very good in Mexico.
As the business continues to mature we expect to see stability and possible improvements in the operating margin for Mexico.
It's been a good business for us.
We continue to grow stores at almost a 15% and 20% expansion rate so there's plenty of opportunity for us to continue to grow.
And quite frankly the store base remains relatively immature and probably will so for the next few years.
Our next question is from Tony Cristello with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Bill you've had such good success on the Commercial side of the business and I understand that parts coverage is certainly helping that.
But when you get down to the local level in that sales effort into that Professional Installer you mentioned training and you mentioned technology.
But can you give me or help us understand a little bit better some of the ability or tools or learning that you're doing to help him understand what is it a very much of different business than the traditional DIY side of the business? Sure.
Great question.
And frankly last week I was with our sales force at our spring sales meeting and I have got to tell you we've got a very impressive group of folks and very enthusiastic.
We spent four days last week with various parts of that sales organization training them on the tools that we have provided and on the products and assortments that we have.
And I think they came away feeling very good about it as did we.
We've provided a lot of tools to them.
First of all as you mentioned we made sure that we improved and enhanced our inventory assortment.
We've also and this probably goes unmentioned our store team has done a fantastic job of just improving our daily service to our customers.
Service has always been a very important part of our culture and they're doing a great job of it today and much better than we have in the past.
But now we have over 250 people that are out there telling the AutoZone story and they're doing it the AutoZone way.
We have great materials for them to communicate.
They're well trained.
They also are supported by some technology that helps them manage their sales activities and also communicate with the rest of the local market team and I think it's working very well.
But that being said we're still very immature with our sales force and they're continuing to grow but they've got great opportunities for continued growth for the future.
And has the receptivity of that Professional Installer been hey AutoZone you now have the part what's the next thing that they ask for from you though? I mean is it the service quality? Is it then managing the return process? I mean what is sort of that to get to that next level to be the number two or even the number one in terms of the call list.
And where do you think you are in terms of tackling that side of the equation? Yes I don't think that there's one next thing.
I think it continues to be improve all the foundational levels of our business and go out and tell our story.
We're late to this party where other people have been out there building those relationships for a very long period of time and our competitors are very good at this business.
And it just takes time and it takes persistence and that's why our sales team is so critically important.
They're in those shops every day and when somebody else makes a misstep we want to be there so that we step up that call list.
And I think that that's exactly what's happening.
This is as I mentioned our sales trajectory in this business has been pretty aggressive and pretty impressive over the last several quarters.
The last question have you done anything in terms of staffing or labor management that's allowed you to have a better coverage of your professional customer as well? Yes we've continued to add labor and trucks as our Commercial business grows.
And as it grows it gives us more opportunities to leverage some of the infrastructure as far as people that's in place which allows us to give better coverage.
If you have two people on the store trying to service a customer it's more challenging than if you had four people.
And so I think we've got better coverage and better service as we continue to grow and I expect that to continue.
Our next question is from Brian Nagel with Oppenheimer.
The question I had I wanted to focus I know a couple of people asked some questions on gross margin too.
But I just want to kind of look at this closer again.
You did have a nice acceleration in gross margin in the fourth quarter from an already decent trend through the prior few quarters and you called out shrink.
Maybe you can help us understand what specifically allowed you to see the better shrink results in the quarter? And then how much opportunity still remains on that effort as we go into the next quarters? Well there's a host of things that are being done in the field in order to improve shrink and there are numerous tactics and better reporting and better focus.
So I can't go through a list of things on the phone per se but there's a lot of blocking and tackling and things that are being done inside the four walls of the organization that have helped to reduce shrink and obviously this is not something that happened yesterday.
This is something that the team has been working on for a long sustained period of time.
And we have been seeing an improvement throughout the year.
This quarter was a little bit larger and we called it out.
But overall we've experienced good shrink performance this quarter.
And like I said before we don't know what the future will holds but we believe that the tactics that we have in place and the results that we have up to this point will continue into the future.
Could you help us understand maybe the magnitude of the shrink benefit in the prior quarters since you haven't called out to this point? Well something less than 40 points obviously.
But it was positive in the last few quarters but not quite to that magnitude if that helps.
And I'm not trying to be slick about it but the fact is is that it was a positive improvement in the last few quarters.
It just increased a little bit enough for us to call it out this quarter.
Our next question is from Kate McShane with Citi Investment Research.
Can you remind us where we are today and what the longer-term strategy is for your private label penetration at your stores? And how do the commercial customers respond to private label? Do they tend to demand more brand name products? Well we've been in this private label strategy for a very long time.
In fact we don't call it private label we call it our brands.
We think Duralast is the largest brand in the automotive aftermarket and has quality as good if not better than any of the other brands that are out there.
But this is not a new venture for us.
I came to this company over 16 years ago and we had substantial private labels at that point in time.
We continue to find opportunities where we can further leverage our brand strategy in the Duralast brand in particular.
Over the last year we rolled out Duralast hub bearings which are very high-quality hub bearing and have been incredibly well received in both the DIY and the commercial marketplace.
There continues to be a lot of discussion about do we have to have brands to be effective in the Commercial business? First of all we have brands.
An easy example is Felpro gaskets we had them for 10 years.
We have FRAM oil and air filters we have Castrol motor oils.
On down the line.
So we have brands where we think they are important.
Will we continue to look at other brand opportunities that would make sense for us yes.
But generally our strategy has been and will continue to be that the Duralast brands are high-quality products and they perform very well and they perform well in the marketplace as evidenced by our sales performance recently.
And just as a follow-up if you were to carry more brands as you mentioned how would that work with your hub strategy? Would it be something that you'd offer within the store as well or just kind of keeping back for the Commercial customer? I don't want to sound like we're going off on a brand strategy.
We have our brand strategy.
Will we continue to test and refine it over time to see what works absolutely.
But until we test something I don't know what we would do so I think that will be premature.
Our next question is from Matt Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
I'd like to understand first of all within the incentive comp line item how formulaic that is into what the metrics are the performance metrics are that drives that presumably has obviously a lot to do with the good underlying financial [ph] performance.
If you could give us a sense as to how that moves with your underlying gross profit numbers.
Sure Matt.
But relative to incentive compensation it's highly formulaic and it is really an EVA model.
So it's very much focused on EBIT and ROIC and so it's a pretty set calculation.
And there's no difference in the prior year by the way.
I mean this calculation and this formula has been in place for several years so there's been no change to the compensation program it's simply the performance to the organization.
So if there were a scenario where your sales growth were to be a bit slower and all the other factors that you've discussed kind of go your way is it feasible that the incentive comp would remain close to current levels? Or would it be the kind of thing that a year out might come off a little? Yes theoretically it would remain at the same levels because it's not a sales-driven compensation program so much of it is and EVA one.
Our next question is from Michael Baker with Deutsche Bank.
I guess it's sort of a follow-up to that question but you've talked consistently about how if sales slow there are areas where you can adjust your costs.
With comparisons becoming more difficult if sales were to slow to more the mid-single digit range let's say what areas of SG&amp;A can you take out? It sounds like some of these hub investments are going to just naturally roll off anyway as you cycle that.
So is it fewer commercial programs or less growth in commercial sales people? I was just curious what areas you do cut or is it just simply incentive comp comes down? Sure.
Let me start by -- I don't want to give up on continuing with our robust sales performance.
As I mentioned previously we see the dynamics of the marketplace not substantially different than they've been over the last over two years and so we certainly aren't saying that we think sales performance is going to necessarily slow.
However if it does I have a high degree of confidence that our organization will be able to react to it just as we have.
And if you turn back the clock in that 18 consecutive quarters of double-digit earnings per share growth we had several quarters where the comps were basically flat and we were able to deliver double-digit EPS growth.
This organization knows how to tighten its belt when it's appropriate and we can do that on a wide variety of things.
Yes incentive compensation would go down.
Yes the hubs will annualize generally at the end of August.
But there are other activities where we have variable operating expenses where we are constantly fine-tuning those whether that's maintenance programs advertising expenses incremental training initiatives there's just a whole variety of them.
And as we have had better performance we have been more aggressive in investing in some of those type activities.
That makes sense.
I guess as a follow-up I wanted to ask Bill Giles about the comments on rising gas prices.
And in the past you've seen certain categories perform better.
So just in the past couple of weeks or so just to be clear are you starting to see any of that yet or those are things that you think might happen as gas prices rise? More the latter.
We haven't necessarily seen significant impact from the gas prices obviously they've gone up about $0.20 in just the last week.
So they're sitting at about $2.38 on a national average.
But too early to tell but we do have a fair amount of experience and history with it.
Just trying to get a sense as how consumers reacting aren't really on here to these rising prices.
And this does conclude the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Rhodes for any closing comments.
Great.
Well before we conclude the call I'd like to take a moment to reiterate that our business model remains solid.
We remain excited about our growth prospects for the balance of the year.
We cannot take anything for granted as we understand our customers have alternatives.
Our culture remains our key point of differentiation from our competition and we must not lose sight of the importance of basic store execution in order to remain very successful.
We operate our business as a marathon and not a sprint but we will continue to focus on the basics and never take our eye off of optimizing long-term shareholder value.
We remain confident AutoZone will continue to be incredibly successful.
Thank you very much for participating in today's call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the AutoZone Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
This conference call will discuss AutoZone's second quarter financial results.
Bill Rhodes the company's Chairman President and CEO will be making a short presentation on the highlights of the quarter.
The conference call will end promptly at 10 a.m.
Central Time 11 a.m.
Eastern Time.
Before Mr.
Rhodes begins the company has requested that you listen to the following statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use words such as believe anticipate should intend plan will expect estimate project positioned strategy and similar expressions.
These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience perception of historical trends current conditions expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including without limitation: credit market conditions; the impact of recessionary conditions; competition; product demand; the ability to hire and retain qualified employees; consumer debt levels; inflation; weather; raw material costs of our suppliers; energy prices; war and the prospect of war including terrorist activity; availability of consumer transportation; construction delays; access to available and feasible financing; and changes in laws or regulations.
Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 28 2010 and these risk factors should be read carefully.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone's Fiscal 2011 Third Quarter Conference Call.
With me today are Bill Giles Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Store Development and IT; and Brian Campbell Vice President Treasurer Investor Relations and Tax.
Regarding the third quarter I hope you've had an opportunity to read our press release and learn about the quarter's results.
If not the press release along with slides complementing our comments today is available on our website www.autozoneinc.com.
Please click on Quarterly Earnings Conference Calls to see them.
We are very pleased to announce another very strong quarter of performance financially and operationally.
Our EPS for the third quarter increased by 28.5% another exceptionally strong quarter for us as our domestic same-store sales increased 5.3%.
This marks the 10th consecutive quarter of EPS growth in excess of 20% and the 19th consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth.
I'd like to start our call this morning by thanking all our AutoZoners across North America for their continued efforts on our 1TEAM Going the Extra Mile 2011 operating theme.
We have made consistent progress on each of our initiatives which include hiring retaining and training the best AutoZoners enhancing our hub network leveraging the Internet profitably growing Commercial and improving our product assortment and inventory management efforts.
I'll go into more detail later on many of these initiatives.
Our focus remains on the fundamentals.
We're committed to having the right AutoZoners providing the right customer service along with the right products at the right price every day.
Our past successes give us confidence that our strategies have and will continue to position AutoZone for continued growth both in sales and earnings in each of our businesses: Domestic Retail Domestic Commercial Mexico and ALLDATA.
Regarding our third quarter sales results our Total Auto Parts segment made up of both our Domestic and Mexico businesses delivered an 8.5% increase.
Our Other businesses made up of ALLDATA and E-Commerce were up 12.5%.
According to NPD data provided to us AutoZone continues to gain market share in both the domestic DIY and DIFM market segments.
This data gives us great confidence in our strategies and their implementation and strengthens our commitment to staying the course.
Existing customers and new customers are shopping with us because of the perceived value of their comprehensive experience with us.
However we know there are alternatives.
That is why we focus on not only improving inventory coverage and our ability to say "yes" more frequently but also on delivering trustworthy advice.
In the end it is our strong culture of providing WOW! Customer Service that differentiates us in the marketplace.
Over the last several quarters not only have we delivered EPS growth in excess of 20% each quarter we have increased our investments in areas we believe will drive long-term growth.
We have continued to open new stores both in the United States and Mexico at a combined annual growth rate of approximately 4%.
We've expanded our emphasis on hub store operations and are relocating or expanding many of our hub stores in order to ensure they have the physical capacity to execute the vision we have for them.
We have made considerable investments in our Commercial business expanding our sales force improving our technology opening new programs at an accelerating rate and increasing labor.
We've also intensified our training efforts and added labor in other specific areas.
Finally we have continued to refine our merchandise placement efforts adding more late model products while continually reducing less productive inventory.
While many of these efforts aren't radical shifts from our historical efforts combined they have been significant albeit low-risk enhancements to our offerings.
Our objective with these efforts is to create differentiation in the customers' eyes.
Based on the NPD market share information which shows us continuing to grow share year-over-year in both DIY and DIFM we believe these efforts are meeting our objective.
We will continue to make constant refinements to each of our businesses that result in meaningful improvements in the customer experience although I wouldn't expect any radical departures from the past.
I'll take a moment now to talk more specifically about our third quarter performance in a little more detail.
As I mentioned our domestic same-store sales grew at 5.3% for the quarter.
Our third quarter which ended May 7 experienced a high degree of variability in sales results from week-to-week and region-to-region.
The severe weather in January during the latter part of our previous quarter abated in February.
But spring-like conditions were delayed as extensive rains some flooding and cooler temperatures persisted across much of the country in March and April.
I should note that some regions that were less affected by unusual weather patterns performed better.
Our increased emphasis on the Commercial business again resulted in quite impressive results.
Our third quarter Commercial sales growth of 22.8% represents our largest rate of growth in recent history.
This represents our fourth straight quarter of 20%-plus sales growth and our 10th straight quarter of accelerating sales growth rate in this sector.
The fact that this quarter was our highest rate of growth is even more impressive when you consider that the comparison was against a 15.5% sales growth in the third quarter of last year.
Although we are pleased with our Commercial rate of growth we recognize that we currently have a small percentage of market share which represents a tremendous opportunity for us.
Therefore we have and expect to continue to invest in order to grow sales and further capture profitable market share.
This includes expanding our sales force increasing labor hours expanding parts coverage and enhancing technology all in an effort to improve the customer experience in order to become the provider of choice.
As we accelerate our investments to grow Commercial and as Commercial becomes a larger portion of our overall business our SG&amp;A and gross margin rates likely will continue to come under some pressure as these sales currently deliver lower margins.
However as we've stated in the past as we grow Commercial we are focused on growing operating profit dollars at strong levels of returns on the capital we deploy.
I'd also like to recognize our Other businesses ALLDATA and E-Commerce for having another fine quarter up 12.5% in sales from this time last year.
Now let me give some color on the mix of our sales.
The mix continued to be led by failure and maintenance-related categories as discretionary sales were a smaller contributor.
Failure remained the largest portion at 44% of our total sales up from last year's third quarter.
What is important to highlight for this quarter was a slight decline in sales of maintenance and discretionary categories.
Both were down approximately 1% in their mix percent.
Going back to my previous comments on regional discrepancies in sales results it definitely appeared maintenance-related products were challenged more so in markets where the weather was cooler and wetter while markets with more normalized weather patterns performed better.
Again customers just weren't working on their cars as much in these wetter and cooler environments.
I should point out as well discretionary categories are not immune from these regional variations as it appears customers deferred the usual spring cleaning on their cars in some regions.
This quarter regarding our customer count and average ticket growth rate average ticket remains strong better than previous quarters.
However transactions while still positive were lower than last quarter's growth rates.
Regarding our execution we continue to believe that superior execution can be a sustainable point of differentiation.
In an industry where changes to vehicle technology brands and systems are constant we have been keenly focused on evaluating the most efficient ways that we can fulfill our customers' needs.
We have been pleased with the enhancements we have made to our hubs over the past year along with improved inventory coverage.
In addition with the average age of cars on the road increasing the last few years we're seeing the distribution by age of parts sold widening at both ends.
While a 7-year-old and older vehicle is our kind of vehicle on the retail front it is noticeable to us that customers with considerably older than 7-year-old vehicles remain key customers for us.
And the demands from our Commercial customers continue to offer us opportunities to drive parts additions earlier in the vehicle life cycle which benefits both DIY and DIFM.
Additionally we have been very focused on leveraging the Internet across a variety of fronts.
While last quarter we discussed with you new Internet initiatives this quarter we let those programs further develop.
We want to grow sales in the Direct-to-Customer and Direct-to-Installer segments and we've seen significant growth in both segments.
We've been pleased with our progress on developing our Internet offerings but we are in the very early innings of tapping into these growing customer segments that utilize this venue for ordering their parts and products.
Lastly on the people front we improved our training efforts and we continue to add AutoZoners to grow the business both for Retail and Commercial.
Next I'll give an update on our 2011 initiatives that support our operating plan theme of 1TEAM Going the Extra Mile.
1TEAM is about our desire to ensure that we're providing the very best customer service experience to every customer regardless of how they interact with us.
This effort is around streamlining systems removing obstacles and reinforcing to all AutoZoners to always put customers first regardless of how they interact with us.
1TEAM Going the Extra Mile is supported by our 2011 key priorities: first great people providing great service; second continual refinements and improvements in our hub strategy; third leveraging the Internet; fourth profitably growing Commercial; fifth ever improving inventory management; and sixth improved product assortment.
Let me go into a little more depth on our hub initiatives.
At this time a year ago we had completed 108 hub store conversions out of our hub base at the time of 145.
By the end of our fiscal year in August we've converted all of our remaining hub locations to multiple daily deliveries to their respective satellite stores so we have yet to fully anniversary the changes we made last year.
As we discussed previously the next phase is to expand many of our current hub stores which currently are space constrained.
We have expanded or are in the process of expanding or relocating approximately 20 hub locations.
While the hub conversions and their enhanced delivery model have created some pressure on SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales we see that pressure generally abating by the end of the fiscal year as we anniversary these conversions.
Overall we are quite pleased with the performance of our hub stores.
We continue to deploy new domestic and import parts coverage in our hub stores to be able to say "yes" even more frequently.
Parts proliferation in our industry is not stopping and our hub initiatives are allowing us to more strategically deploy our inventory assortments.
I want to reiterate while our financial performance has been solid we take nothing for granted.
Our commitment to our ongoing planning efforts allows us good visibility into the business trends and our team is committed to managing those trends appropriately.
We have been very deliberate in how we manage expenses and capital in order to deliver consistent strong financial performance while also positioning our business for long-term growth.
And we will continue with this strategy well into the future.
We should also highlight another strong performance in return on invested capital as we were able to grow this metric to 30.2% on a trailing 4-quarter basis which represents another new all-time high for our organization.
One of the big drivers to this growth has been the EBIT growth of the Commercial business.
While having a lower EBIT margin as a percentage of sales which creates some margin rate pressure the capital requirements of the Commercial model are minimal.
The investments are mainly operating expense-related AutoZoners who develop relationships and sell to our customers and other AutoZoners who provide great service to those important customers.
The ability to leverage our existing assets primarily store locations inventory and information systems across this additional customer base provides us with a terrific opportunity to grow operating profit dollars and drive incremental returns on capital.
It should be reiterated we will always maintain our diligence regarding capital stewardship as the capital we spend is our investors' capital.
Before I ask Bill Giles to take over the commentary I know many are concerned about the industry's ability to manage through the higher gas prices we're seeing at the pumps these days.
It takes disposable income out of the pockets of our customers and everyone's pockets.
The best answer I can give came from a field sales leadership call we had a couple of weeks ago.
In this open forum not a single senior field AutoZoner mentioned the price of fuel as the primary reason for customer concern in sales results.
While I don't want to downplay the prices at the pump we have to market accordingly to help educate consumers on what they can do to save money every day.
As gas prices have only this week -- this past week come down we cannot rely on external relief.
We must remain proactive.
We continue to remain bullish on our industry's growth prospects.
We believe many of the same dynamics that were in place last year affecting our customers exist today.
At the same time our financial modeling efforts are always based on conservative assumptions.
But our industry remains extremely fragmented in DIY and especially in DIFM.
We see the smaller players in our space remain under pressure from the larger players.
And this is no different than other categories.
I think it is important to remind everyone when we discuss NPD market share those statistic represent only the small set of large players in the industry who report their sales information to NPD.
There's a much larger share both in DIY and especially DIFM that is outside of NPD.
We want to continue to gain share in both the share that is included in NPD as well as the significant business that is excluded from that data set.
And while we have great respect for all of our competitors the past results show we are continuing to gain share year-over-year.
Now I'll turn it over to Bill Giles to talk about our financial results for the quarter.
Bill? Thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone.
To start let me take you -- a few moments to talk more specifically about our Retail Commercial and Mexico results for the quarter.
For the quarter Total Auto Parts sales increased 8.5% versus last year's third quarter's growth of 10%.
This segmentation includes our Domestic Retail and Commercial businesses and our Mexico stores.
This quarter we completed category line reviews in 12 of our categories of our 40-plus major merchandise categories.
Improving our parts coverage remains a key priority.
Regarding macro trends during the quarter unleaded gas prices started out at $3.14 a gallon and rose steadily finishing the quarter at $3.97 a gallon.
Last year gas prices rose during the third quarter starting at $2.61 and ending at $2.91 a gallon.
As Bill mentioned the increase in gas prices is reducing discretionary spending for all consumers and particularly our customers.
At the same time it is an opportunity for us to communicate with our customers steps they can take to improve their gas mileage.
We remain mindful of the moves in oil prices and how they ultimately can correlate to prices at the pump.
Miles driven remains less of a story to our near-term sales results than in previous years.
Recently January and February showed positive upward trends up 0.2% and 0.9% respectively.
March showed a decrease in miles driven of 1.4%.
While recently we have seen no correlation in our sales performance with miles driven historically it has been one of the key statistics which correlate to our sales results over the long term.
The other is a number of 7-year-old and older vehicles on the road which continues to trend in our industry's favor.
For the trailing 4 quarters Total Auto Parts sales per square foot were $257.
This statistic continues to set the pace for the rest of the industry.
For the quarter total Commercial sales increased 22.8%.
Our strong results which began to accelerate in Q1 of fiscal 2010 continued in our third quarter.
For the third quarter Commercial represented 13.5% of our total sales.
While last fiscal year we generated $880 million in Commercial sales I am proud to report this morning we crossed over $1 billion in sales for Commercial on a trailing 4-quarter basis.
Our entire organization is proud of this accomplishment but we realize we have much work to do as our market share remains small.
As we have said previously we've been very pleased with the progress we are making in this business both operationally and financially.
We believe there are ample opportunities for us to continue to improve many facets of our operations and offerings and therefore we are quite optimistic about the future of this business.
Our sales growth has come from both existing and new customers.
We continue to believe we can grow revenues in existing stores and we will continue to open additional Commercial programs.
This past quarter we opened 34 new programs.
Year-to-date we've opened 131 new programs a substantial acceleration from last year's 32 at this time.
We now have our Commercial program in 2 555 stores supported by 143 hub stores.
This past quarter we consolidated 2 hub locations into one therefore our hubs count declined by one.
So just 57% of our domestic stores having the Commercial program we believe there's ample opportunity for additional program growth.
We remain committed to building a platform for long-term growth in both sales and profits.
Our focus this past quarter was to build upon the Commercial initiatives that have been in place for well over a year.
We continue to watch our sales force mature from its inception just 3 years ago.
We are also training and introducing additional technology to optimize the productivity of our sales force.
We have increased our efforts around analyzing customer purchasing trends and in-stock trends.
We've had 16 consecutive quarters of sales growth.
We have a model that is successful and we are continuing to attest additional enhancements to our offerings.
In addition to our focus on further developing our sales force we have continued to add significant resources to our Commercial business from additional late-model import and domestic coverage both in satellite and hub stores through additional labor hours and trucks.
In summary the Commercial business remains on track and we're excited about our continuing opportunities.
Our Mexico stores continue to perform well.
We opened 12 new stores during the third quarter and currently have 261 stores in Mexico.
We remain resolute on our strategy to open stores at a steady pace while managing our Mexico business for the long run.
We've operated stores in Mexico for just over 11 years and believe there is opportunity for continued growth there as well.
Our returns and profit growth has been in line with our expectations and our customers as well as our employees have embraced the AutoZone culture.
Based on how well our business model has performed in Mexico coupled with significant research we are currently evaluating the potential to open and operate stores in Brazil.
This is in the early stages and we do not expect to make a material investment in Brazil in the short-term nor do we expect related activities there to have a material impact on our operations or financial results.
However we are excited about the possibility to expand our footprint outside of the U.S.
in a measured and prudent manner.
But just to be clear this initiative will not be material for the foreseeable future.
We wanted to mention it because it is something we are working on and we wanted you to hear it from us directly.
Recapping our third quarter performance for the company in total our sales for the third quarter were $1 978 000 000 an increase of 8.6% from last year's third quarter.
Domestic same-store sales or sales for stores open more than 1 year were up 5.3% for the quarter.
Gross margin for the quarter was 51.2% of sales up 57 basis points compared to last year's third quarter.
The improvement in gross margin was attributable to lower shrink expense and higher merchandise margins.
Shrink results continued to be favorable.
Our field and loss prevention teams have undertaken several initiatives over the past few years that have led to improving our results.
While we have benefited the last 2 quarters from lower shrink expense we recognize savings only after we physically counted our stores and distribution centers and there can be no guarantee that this trend will continue although we are pleased with our results to date.
The increased merchandise margin benefited from increased penetration of higher-margin products as well as improved inventory management.
This has been offset in part by higher acquisition costs.
In regards to inflation we have seen some rising cost in commodity-related products although certain categories have experienced some higher levels of inflation.
Taken as a whole inflation hasn't been a material component of our overall results.
We will remain cognizant of future developments regarding inflation and we'll make the appropriate adjustments should they arise.
Looking forward we continue to believe there remains opportunity for gross margin expansion however we do not manage to a targeted gross profit margin percentage.
We are focused on growing absolute gross profit dollars.
And gross profit dollars in our Total Auto Parts segment were up 9.8% for the quarter.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 31.4% of sales up 24 basis points from last year's third quarter.
The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of sales was primarily the result of increased investments in our hub store initiative and higher fuel costs related to delivering products to our Commercial customers.
As we completed our hub store conversions during our fiscal fourth quarter last year the pressure on operating expense from this initiative as a percentage of sale is expected to decline as we anniversary these operational investments.
In addition to the specific elements of deleverage highlighted above that our Commercial business is becoming more significant and more rapidly growing component of our overall sales and tying with the fact that they currently operate at a higher rates of SG&amp;A it has and is likely to continue to provide pressure to our overall SG&amp;A rate.
While our operating expense percentage growth has increased over the last 2 years we continue to purposely invest these dollars to position the company for future sales and profit growth.
This organization takes great pride in our disciplined approach to managing our cost structure and leveraging our culture of thrift.
And we remain committed to appropriately managing expenses in line with our overall performance.
We continue to be well positioned to manage our cost structure for the foreseeable future.
EBIT for the quarter was $393 million up 10.4% over last year's third quarter.
Our EBIT margin improved to 19.9% or 33 basis points versus the previous year's third quarter.
Interest expense for the quarter was $39.9 million compared with $36.8 million in Q3 a year ago an 8.4% increase.
Debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $3 221 000 000 or approximately $522 million more than last year's balance of $2 699 000 000.
Our adjusted debt level metric finished the quarter at 2.4x EBITDAR.
While in any given quarter we may increase or decrease debt levels based on management's opinion regarding debt and equity positions we remain committed to both our investment grade rating and our capital allocation strategy.
And share repurchases are an important element of that strategy.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 35.6% down from last year's third quarter of 36.4%.
We expect to be closer to 37% on an ongoing basis.
Net income for the quarter of $227 million was up 12.1% versus the prior-year's third quarter.
Our diluted share count of $43 million was down approximately 13% from last year's third quarter.
The combination of these factors drove earnings per share for the quarter to $5.29 up 28.5% over the prior-year's third quarter.
Related to the cash flow statement for the third fiscal quarter of 2011 we generated $456 million of operating cash flow.
We continue to remain focused on increasing operating cash flow in 2011.
We repurchased $339 million of AutoZone stock in the third quarter.
And at the end of the quarter we had $152 million remaining under our share buyback authorization.
We continue to view our share repurchase program as an attractive capital deployment strategy.
[indiscernible] to date we bought $9.7 billion of our stock back.
Accounts payable as a percent of gross inventory finished the quarter at 109% versus 98% in last year's third quarter.
Next I'd like to update you on our inventory levels in total and on a per store basis.
We reported an inventory balance of $2.5 billion up 8.9% versus Q3 ending balance last year.
Increased inventory reflects additional investments in our coverage for select categories.
While we continue to invest in inventory we expect inventory growth in the future will be more modest.
Net fixed assets were up 8% versus last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $92 million and reflected the additional expenditures required to open 56 new stores this quarter capital expenditures on existing stores and work on development of new stores for upcoming quarters.
With the new stores opened we finished this past quarter with 4 467 stores in 48 states in the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico and 261 stores in Mexico for a total store count of 4 728.
Depreciation totaled $44.9 million for the quarter versus last year's third quarter expense of $42.8 million.
Our senior unsecured debt rating from Standard &amp; Poor's is BBB and we have a commercial paper rating of A-2.
Moody's Investors Service has assigned us a senior unsecured debt credit rating of Baa2 and a commercial paper rating of P2.
And Fitch has assigned us a senior unsecured rating of BBB as well and a commercial paper rating of F2.
Finally our continued disciplined capital management approach resulted in return on invested capital for the trailing 4 quarters of 30.2%.
We have and will continue to make investments that we believe will generate returns that significantly exceed our cost of capital.
Now I'll turn it back to Bill Rhodes.
Thanks Bill.
Before we conclude I want to congratulate our entire organization for a very solid performance this past quarter and reiterate that our team's commitment to our culture and our customers combined with our initiatives have contributed significantly to our success as evidenced by our continuing growth in market share in both Retail and Commercial.
I also want to congratulate our organization for achieving $1 billion in Commercial sales on a trailing 4-quarter basis a key milestone for us and hopefully just the first of many significant new records we set in this business.
Lastly we're excited about the new quarter ahead and believe we're well positioned to meet our customers’ needs heading into the summer driving season.
While we currently have the challenge of higher gas prices before us we believe our stores look great and the strategies we have in place will allow us to have a successful fourth quarter.
While our AutoZoners across the organization deserve credit for our past successes we promise to remain committed to continuing to improve our business model and our operations focusing on continual refinements but not radical change.
We have an exceptional business model that still has tremendous opportunities for further improvements.
For the last quarter of fiscal 2011 we will continue to focus on our key priorities: great people providing great service; continual refinements and improvements in our hub strategy; leveraging the Internet; profitably growing Commercial; ever-improving inventory management; and improving our product assortment.
While we routinely measure our performance week-to-week quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year we find it instructive to assess our performance over longer periods of time and we'd like to compare our performance to other highly successful companies.
Recently FORTUNE Magazine released the Fortune 500.
This year it highlights that from 2000 to 2010 our earnings per share grew 22.3% on an annualized basis ranking us 31st for the 10-year period.
Even more impressive our total return to investors over this 10-year period grew from 25.3% ranking us 16th.
These are impressive results and highlight the strength and consistency of our business model.
I believe these results are attributable to operating in a healthy industry having a very disciplined business model and approach and having a very strong culture of customer satisfaction that is operational-ized by an incredibly committed and passionate team of over 60 000 AutoZoners.
Finally before we move to Q&amp;A I want to again thank and congratulate our entire organization for their dedication to our customers fellow AutoZoners stockholders and communities.
Our approach remains consistent.
We're focused on succeeding in the fourth quarter of 2011 and we are optimistic and excited about our future.
Now I'd like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Gary Balter with Crédit Suisse.
It's Gary and Simeon.
I'd like to delve in on the things that didn't work well but then I'd have no questions.
So I'll ask you something else.
Could you talk -- one of your competitors reported last week and there's some indication that maybe some of the pricing is sticky.
It's very hard to see from your gross margin which was so strong but could you talk about that if you're seeing any inflationary pressures that are impacting the gross margin or potentially could be impacting the gross margin? Clearly Gary as we said in our prepared remarks in some areas where there's specific commodity increases we are seeing some increased cost.
In many of those areas we’ve passed those costs along to the consumer.
We will continue to do that.
That's been our history but we're also going to be mindful to make sure that we are priced right.
So we have taken leadership roles at times and moved pricing up.
As long as we stay competitive we'll stay there.
On the Commercial side you've done superb.
Do you think now like basically the investments are done or could you mention like you've got all the hub stores set up and obviously you're driving fantastic numbers.
So from an expense point of view is there a lot more spending to do or now not maybe reaping the rewards but are we going to see even stronger margins going forward? You talked about how solid the margins are already.
Yes I think that we're going to continue invest in the business and we are starting reap some of the benefits from it.
And again we believe that this is a fairly immature business for us and we have a very small market share.
So we see opportunities for us to continue to add new programs to continue to invest in the field organization so that we'll continue to invest.
But there is no question that we're gaining momentum in this industry and we're starting to reap some of the benefits now.
But we're going to continue to invest and we're going to continue to take market share.
And actually one more from Simeon.
Can you maybe sort of separate out some of the better weather markets from some of the non- better weather -- the poorer weather markets just what the comp spread may have been the difference in that in the period so we can get a sense of how different markets performed? Yes it's difficult always to peel out gas and peel out weather and all those things.
And we believe that weather will even itself out over time as Bill indicated.
When we look at it by category and by region it's clearly some of the regions that were less affected and then we'd have to define what less meant.
Those performed better.
So we just look forward and we look at what we can do to continue to educate the consumer on how to save money and continue to stick to our knitting.
Our next question is from John Lawrence with Morgan Keegan.
Inc.</strong> Bill would you comment just a little bit staying on the commercial program for just a second.
If you look at these -- the hub stores when they're relocated what's the proper metric? I mean does it take a period of time to get this strong return as far as setting the inventory and then is the metric how productive those routes are or fine tuning that inventory per route so you see a maturity curve for a period of time in terms of return? Sure.
Yes I mean as far as the maturity curve we're still seeing our -- all these hub stores continuing to grow and that's encouraging to us.
On the ones -- as far as relocating them we really haven't relocated many of them at this point in time but we have expanded several of them.
And because maybe a store that only has 70% or 80% of the parts that we want in it because it's just simply not large enough physically.
And so when we are able to expand it and put that product assortment in there we actually reap the awards very quickly because the demand is already there in the market place.
So we've been very encouraged.
We can also very scientifically determine what do we think the sales are going to be because we see how those SKUs are performing in other hub stores and it's very easy to extrapolate that to the market where they don't exist.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And secondly would you just peel it back a little bit on Duralast? Tell us where we are and some of those categories you still think you have some room? We had very good penetration this quarter and the quarter before that as well as we indicated.
We continue to believe that there's opportunity for us to expand the Duralast branded name in other categories.
And it's been very well-received by our customer base both DIY and the Commercial customers.
So we feel terrific about how well that brand has grown and how well it's been accepted into the marketplace.
And there is continued opportunity for us to increase our penetration in other categories as well John.
So that's an ongoing effort.
Our next question is from Brian Nagel with Oppenheimer.
First question on sales and I know you spoke -- like lot of retailers where you spoke about the weather through the quarter sounds like the weather was on balance a slight or modest negative for you through the quarter.
Question I have is how should we think about now weather-related sales going forward? Weather started to get better in most parts of the country.
Is there some type of pent-up demand or some sales lost and then conversely with the very negative weather in some parts of the country it actually can be a driver of sales as we look forward into either the next quarter or the next several months? Yes I think number one the spring weather is always choppy.
I mean spring is inherently choppy.
So the fact that we had weather challenges in certain markets is not to be unexpected.
Was it a little more a little less this year I'm not sure that we see can really get in that scientifically and ferret it out because we do operate across the country.
As far as looking forward the summertime weather patterns are generally more consistent now.
We were going up against a very very hot summer last year.
So as we go up against those really hot weeks it will be interesting to see and those could present some modest challenges for us.
But overall weather effects are not going to impact our business over the long term.
We operate in such a large geography and at the end of the day we're going to control our destiny.
And we just need to make sure we keep doing the things that are resonating with the customers.
Okay.
Then the second question I have and I think I asked a similar question on the last quarter's call but on the shrink you again called out shrink as an outsized driver of gross margins.
How should we think about the sustainability of that benefit into the coming quarters? Yes.
I mean we're very pleased.
Obviously we had a benefit in Q2 and we had a benefit in Q3 and it certainly feels as though we have momentum going forward.
But shrink is one of those things that it's very difficult to predict too far out into the future.
We have very good momentum now and I think the loss prevention in the field organization have done an outstanding job undertaking several initiatives to really putting a lot more science around reducing shrink.
And they've done a very good job and we've had good benefits.
Is that sustainable? We'd like to think so.
But there can be no guarantee.
So we feel good about the results that we've got in both Q2 and Q3 and we believe that there will be continued improvement in Q4.
A little bit beyond that it's very difficult to know for sure.
Our next question is from Aram Rubinson with Nomura.
A question I'm hoping you can help us figure out on Mexico a little bit you say in your 10-K that you've got 2 operating segments but only one reportable.
Can you give us some metrics in terms of what Mexico -- the opportunity looks like in terms of growth off the 260 or so stores you've got? What the profit equation looks like? Just trying to get a sense if there's an analog there for what Brazil could ultimately look like.
Yes let me jump in there first.
Just be very very careful on Brazil.
We were very hesitant to even mention it but as we were doing research down there news that we're snooping around is getting out and we wanted to make sure you heard it from us here first.
But it will be a long time -- use Mexico as an analog for Brazil.
We've been there 11 years.
We have 261 stores out of 4 700 stores.
As far as an analog for the Mexico business we haven't disclosed all the details of the Mexico business but we have been very pleased with the profitability of that business segment over -- since we've been down there certainly over the last many years.
It operates very similar to the way we operate in the United States.
It is really remarkable how well our model has translated to Mexico.
As far as the ultimate store count we really haven’t determined that.
We certainly look at it and think we can continue to grow at this 50 stores per year basis for the foreseeable future.
I think we'll continue to learn down there.
As the middle class continues to emerge hopefully we'll have more opportunities.
But we think we can grow for quite a period of time at this current store count growth rate.
So basically I mean you're really growing your Mexican business at 23% store growth per annum.
You think something like that is sustainable because that's quite a rapid rate of growth? Yes.
I don't know it will be -- I don't know if we'll continue to grow at the percent.
I think we'll -- more than likely we'll be in this 50 store count range plus or minus 5 stores as we go forward.
Obviously when you're growing -- we grew at 25% last year.
It puts a tremendous strain on the people engine.
And we've got to make sure that we've got the right people that understand our culture and our operating model.
And so we're going to kind of cap it here for now.
If we see an opportunity to expand it we would.
But I really don't suspect that will happen.
Our next question is from Greg Melich with ISI.
Bill you mentioned average ticket and transactions.
I just wanted to get a little bit more.
If average ticket was better than in the prior quarters how much of that was mix? Was there a little bit of inflation in there or was it a shift to more Commercial versus DIY? And then similarly on the transactions if they slowed a bit from prior quarters is that simply the fact that Commercial is growing faster than DIY or -- help us out on that? Yes.
I'd focus more on DIY solely.
The Commercial market is certainly quite a bit different on the transaction and ticket basis.
But in DIY we clearly have seen some benefit to average ticket of inflation.
But I don't want you to think about it as regular normal inflation.
This industry has 2 kinds of inflation it has the normal inflation but it also has inflation of comparable parts.
The starter for a 2010 model is much more expensive than the starter for a 2000 model because it has enhanced technology and that is going to last longer.
I've used the spark plug example for many many times.
You used to be able to buy a copper class spark plug for $0.99.
Today you buy a platinum spark plug for $3.99.
It lasts 3x as long.
That hurts transactions and that benefits average ticket.
So constantly in these numbers you always have that benefit going on.
On the transaction side we did slow down but we're still positive.
For many many many years we ran negative in transaction count and really attributed it to that change in the quality of products that we sell.
We felt like that was driving that.
Great.
So basically when you were describing that that was all about DIY? That was -- that's not...
That's correct.
Okay and the...
Then obviously our transaction count in Commercial was up tremendously.
Right.
Got it.
And then on that deceleration was it -- if it's fair to say given the inflationary mix is helping the average ticket was the deceleration 100% traffic or transactions? Well I would say it was over 100%.
As I said our ticket was actually better.
It was up more than it was last quarter.
Our next question is from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Two questions and the first one relates to inventory.
You spoke earlier on the call about doing business I guess with a broader range of cars as the number of older cars on the road grows and I guess the variety increases as well.
And you also spoke to this probably being -- if I heard you right your quarter's biggest inventory increases.
So can you just talk about in a little more detail your decision to ramp the inventory up this quarter and what you think you need to do to cater to perhaps the evolving demographics in the marketplace? Yes and I think as part of this continuing process of having a disciplined category line review throughout the year that we're finding more opportunities to add inventory and improve our coverage overall.
Obviously we're heading into the busiest season of the year so this is an optimal time for us to be able to make sure that we're both in-stock and that we've maximized our coverage the best we can so that's part of the reason that we would do it in this quarter.
But overall as we continue to leverage the hub network et cetera we believe that there's opportunities for us to be able to add inventory and improve coverage.
So although the inventory level's a little bit higher than we might have expected overall we're pretty pleased with the complexion and the composition of the inventory that we have today and we think we're in a pretty healthy position.
And my second question relates to gross margin.
Last quarter you had a pretty big gross margin pop and it was a pretty clean number.
When you look at this May quarter and you take out the shrink you came back to the kind of trend that you've been accustomed to seeing.
As you contemplate the mix shift towards Commercial and you contemplate what you're seeing with commodity prices and understanding finally that you don't manage through a gross margin rate do you feel like you have the opportunity to continue to drive gross margin higher or should we be more subdued in our thought process there? We do believe that we have the opportunity to continue to drive gross margin.
And keep in mind that you're right Commercial business operates at a slightly lower gross margin.
So as that mathematically becomes a larger piece of the puzzle then it will put some pressure on gross margin.
But overall the gross margin rates have been relatively healthy.
You're right we've had some commodity price pressures.
But we've been successful in passing those prices along and managing our way through it.
So overall we feel pretty good about the merchandise team and what they've done.
And we believe margin is healthy and there is opportunity for it to continue to increase.
Our next question is from Tony Cristello with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
First question I had was with respect to the initiatives.
You've had a lot and it seems like you've taken advantage of what's been a very robust operating environment for the aftermarket.
And I guess what I'm wondering is once we enter a more normalized environment and again you might have a better idea for that than I do but at some point whether it's a year or 2 or 3 years down the road how do we think about your need to grow your need to spend versus what we think the initiatives put into place today will drive from a top line perspective? Yes it's a great question.
And obviously we have been much more aggressive over the last 2 1/2 years on our initiatives.
Many of those initiatives we would have done we would have completed them but we would have completed them over a longer period of time.
As we mentioned last year we accelerated our hub stores and complete over a year in advance of when we anticipated doing it because the strength of the market.
Our hope is that from the development of these initiatives that whether the market strengthens or slips a little bit that we're going to come out of it in a stronger position than we came into it.
And I think we're doing just that.
And clearly the market share information is showing us that.
Over time if the market -- if the industry did slow I am highly confident that our company and our AutoZoners can effectively manage our cost structure.
All you have to do is go back and look at 2006 2007 2008 and I think we've proved at that point in time that we know how to manage costs.
And maybe on that the market share gains that are quite apparent in your numbers is it simply a function of the success you've had with the ongoing initiatives? Or does it get back to just sort of the core fundamentals of how you approach an existing market? Can you maybe just differentiate a little bit between the 2 and why you think you've had such great success? Yes.
Obviously you got to split it into both businesses.
In Commercial we've had a step function change in the effectiveness of the way we go to market.
We created a new strategy about 4 years ago.
Our team has implemented it flawlessly.
And we still have a long long way to go in the Commercial business but we're very pleased with the progress we're making there.
On the DIY side we've been in this business for almost 32 years now.
So we have a very well refined business model that works incredibly well and what we're constantly doing is fine-tuning it.
I'm very happy with our organization.
They have a testing mentality.
So we don't go out and roll out big initiatives all at once.
We come up with big ideas or big initiatives or small initiatives and we go test them and once we prove that they're successful we look at the other things that we want to do.
We prioritize them and we implement them over time.
That's very helpful.
Our next question is from Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
First a follow-up question on the investment side earlier.
As you think about the pace of expansion of hub and new commercial programs once you anniversary the big hub investment in August do you get any of that back? Or is it just upfront cost that you potentially get back or is it just kind of goes into the base and then you manage around how the top line shapes up? Yes the latter.
I would say that it goes into the base.
We've changed the operating structure a little bit from how we manage the hubs.
And so we've increased the frequency of deliveries.
The next phase will be to expand some of the hubs.
That'll be more onetime in nature.
But the operating structure that we have we'll anniversary in August will stay with us.
That’s how we're going to operate it.
Now to your point that as we continue to see how sales trend and perform we will adjust our total cost structure to those sales not just hubs but we'll adjust our total cost structure to match up to that.
But at the moment we're getting great return on the hubs and we've been very pleased with the results that we've had and we believe that that new operating structure is the right one.
And it sounds like I mean if you're on pace for like I guess 130 I think new programs year-to-date based on your success you would think that as you look into the next fiscal year that you would keep that kind of pace up going forward? We would keep up the pace relative to the operating structure that we have in place.
Is that what you mean? Yes I mean the number of new programs new Commercial programs.
We'll see.
We've had good luck with the commercial programs.
We've certainly accelerated the number of commercial programs that we had this year and then we'll continue to evaluate how many we'll open.
But obviously as we've talked about before we have a very small market share.
And it's only 57% of our overall stores.
So there is a significant opportunity for us to expand our number of commercial programs.
And then you mentioned the maintenance category ticked down a bit year-over-year and you did point out saying "Hey there were some regional differences that varied by weather." In the regions where you didn't see a weather impact perhaps at West or other regions of the country was maintenance more flat year-over-year and the tick down was really driven off of the wet areas of the country? We believe it was a little bit more weather focused and some of the other regions it was a little bit flatter.
So it gave us an indication that it was a little bit more weather.
And then final question is a lot of retailers have talked about the swing down in April and a nice resumption in May in terms of comp trend.
Is that something you saw in your business as well? We're 2 weeks and 2 days into a 16-week quarter.
So we just really don't want to get into what our trends are doing currently.
Fair enough.
Our next question is from Colin McGranahan with Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> First question on the Commercial business and the margin pressure.
Understanding obviously that the gross margin rate is 400 or 500 basis points lower but I would have thought -- and I know you have increased costs associated with the more frequent delivery in the hubs and salespeople and whatnot.
But I would have thought that the contribution margin and the ability to leverage against fixed rent depreciation and store overhead would maybe result in a contribution margin closer to your EBIT margin.
It sounds like that's not the case.
Can you help us understand how much lower it is? Yes I don’t want to necessarily go out and quantify specifically Colin.
But as we said over a long period of time both the gross margin and the operating expenses or SG&amp;A are worse than our DIY business.
And they are both fairly significantly worse today.
Now a lot of that is because we've made tremendous investments from adding a sales force we didn't have 3 years ago technological advances the significant labor components for those deliveries that we have to do or ordered [ph] to do.
So there is a big SG&amp;A difference as well.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just in terms of the magnitude of that if it's 500 to 1 000 basis points lower it’s 13% of the business it’s growing at 15% faster are we talking about an annual pressure something in the 10 to 20 basis point range? Well I would just say we've had the pressure over -- this business has really accelerated over the last 10 quarters or so.
And we've had that pressure over time and we've been able to manage it.
We've had other things that we specifically called out such as hub stores and other things over time.
So that will give you some order of magnitude.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just finally on market share I know you don't have a complete set of market data given NPD is only a subset.
But any sense of whether you're taking a share within the NPD set within the market not captured by NPD or both? We are definitely taking share year-over-year in DIY and Commercial in the NPD set.
We can say that factually because we have the data.
We don't have the data for the pieces that's not in the NPD share but I think our suspicion is that the entire NPD group is probably growing its rate versus the people that are outside with more independence in both Retail and Commercial.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Our next question is from Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> I understand you not wanting to talk about the first 2 weeks but you did mention that you had a tremendous amount of sales variability week-to-week geographic basis et cetera.
Any chance we could get a better feel for the cadence during the quarter sales cadence? Yes.
I mean we had a really fantastic first period of the quarter.
But we came out of a period or January where we were talking about how challenging it was and the weather broke.
This period of time is always highly volatile.
The last couple of periods were not as strong and there's a lot of reasons why.
And clearly one of them was the weather was much choppier.
LLC</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then when you look at the -- you guys have gross margins increasing as well as your accounts payable and inventory ratio increasing.
Sometimes that actually turns out to the trade-off depending on what you're doing with your vendors.
How much of the improvement of both of those metrics comes from the growing penetration of private label? Is there any way to help size it for us? Well I would look at it a couple of different ways.
One is there's maybe a little bit on private label but our inventory is more productive.
I mean our inventory turn actually improved and that in and of itself is going to help AP-to-inventory ratio.
So part of it is really continued negotiations in working with our vendors.
But a chunk of it is just the improvement in inventory turn.
So as we improve our inventory productivity that's going to help the AP-to-inventory ratio as well.
Our next question is from Michael Lasser with UBS.
Bill can you expand on your comments about the change in distribution of the age of parts sold? It’s widening at both ends.
Is that because of the inventory coverage or is that because of the nature of the customer requests that you've been getting? Yes it's a fantastic question.
And I think it depends it's yes and yes.
Our inventory coverage particularly because we're in the Commercial business now gives us enough demand that we can add parts earlier in the vehicle life cycle.
As we add those parts it's been really remarkable to us -- certainly we get the sales in the Commercial business but we also get them in the Retail business always more than we would have thought.
Then on the other side of the vehicle life cycle people are just holding on to their cars longer.
So the demand is higher than it was 3 or 4 years ago.
And you can see that in the average age of vehicle.
We see it in the average age of look ups that we get that would reference customer demand.
And can you tease out both those points such that it happened concurrently with the really fantastic growth of the industry you’ve seen over the last couple of years? Clearly on the older side that is absolutely correct.
On the newer side I don’t think it's a function of what's happened in the market.
It’s a function of the fact that we have inventory coverage that we didn't have in our satellite stores and we have substantially more in our hub stores.
Okay.
And last question are you seeing any wage pressure? You and your competitors are really going after the Commercial segment aggressively and at some point the competition for these workers is going to increase.
So has that been an issue as of yet? No we haven't seen any abnormal issues regarding wage pressures.
Okay good luck.
Okay.
Before we conclude the call I'd like to take a moment to reiterate that our business model remains very solid.
We remain excited about our growth prospects for the balance of the year and beyond.
We cannot and won't take anything for granted as we understand our customers have alternatives.
Our culture remains our key point of differentiation from our competition and we must not lose sight of the importance of basic store execution in order to remain very successful.
We'd also like to wish everyone a happy and safe upcoming Memorial Day.
It is a time for us to recognize the U.S.
soldiers who have died while in military service and to thank those who are currently serving in our military.
As we operate our business as a marathon and not a sprint we will continue to focus on the basics and never take our eye off of optimizing long-term shareholder value.
We remain confident AutoZone will continue to be incredibly successful.
And we thank you for participating in today's call.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the AutoZone Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
This conference call will discuss AutoZone's fourth quarter financial results.
Bill Rhodes the company's Chairman President and CEO will be making a short presentation on the highlights of the quarter.
The conference call will end promptly at 10 a.m.
Central Time 11 a.m.
Eastern Time.
Before Mr.
Rhodes begins the company has requested that you listen to the following statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use words such as believe anticipate should intend plan will expect estimate project positioned strategy and similar expressions.
These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience perception of historical trends current conditions expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including without limitation: credit market conditions the impact of recessionary conditions competition product demand the ability to hire and retain qualified employees consumer debt levels inflation weather raw material cost of our suppliers energy prices war and the prospect of war including terrorist activity availability of consumer transportation construction delays access to available and feasible financing and changes in laws or regulations.
Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 28 2010 and these risk factors should be read carefully.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone's Fiscal 2011 Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
With me today are Bill Giles Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Store Development and IT; and Brian Campbell Vice President Treasurer Investor Relations and Tax.
Regarding the fourth quarter I hope you've had an opportunity to read our press release and learn about the quarter's results.
If not the press release along with slides complementing our comments today is available on our website www.autozoneinc.com.
Please click on Quarterly Earnings Conference Calls to see them.
We are very pleased to announce another very strong quarter and fiscal year performance both financially and operationally.
Our EPS for the fourth quarter increased 26.9% another strong financial quarter for us as our domestic same-store sales increased 4.5%.
This marks the 11th consecutive quarter of EPS growth in excess of 20% and the 20th consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth.
Although you've heard me say this many times before it is important to again recognize and thank our AutoZoners who are operating as 1TEAM delivering a consistent and superior shopping experience for all of our customers every day.
The results that we have delivered this quarter and for the full year reflect the consistent execution and constant focus on improvement by our team as well as the ongoing investments we made in our business.
As an organization we routinely measure all activity to ensure that our investments are generating an adequate return.
The consistency in our execution produces a superior shopping experience for our customers.
The critical components of that experience are having the right AutoZoners delivering trustworthy advice and giving those AutoZoners the parts and products their customers need or desire.
I'm pleased with the progress our company has made over the past several years and our continued growth in market share further validates our strategies and the strong performance of our AutoZoners.
Our store execution strategy is to not only be consistent but be incrementally better quarter-over-quarter.
We're continually refining the store and back office systems.
We're spending both capital and operating expense dollars on improving the fiscal store appearance.
We've invested in our hub stores to improve product availability in the marketplace.
We've also increased our spend on training.
While many items we sell are commodities like oil and antifreeze we're continually trying to create a unique shopping experience from other retailers.
We have also over the years invested in our Commercial business and believe we have significantly improved our position and are excited about our progress to date and continued growth opportunities.
We're striving to improve Retail market share grow our Commercial business add stores in the United States and Mexico and refine the ALLDATA model to add customers for many years to come.
We did that this quarter and this fiscal year.
We have very good competitors in the marketplace but due to the efforts of our great AutoZoners we've delivered 4 consecutive years of sequential improvement in sales same-store sales and EPS percentage growth.
There is no doubt we have benefited from the macro economy.
However it's important to highlight that we are increasing market share in this environment.
As new and used car prices gas prices and unemployment have all remained high consumers have been looking for ways to save money while using their cars and trucks as an integral part of their daily lives.
What many are wondering and attempting to financially model this morning is where does AutoZone and our industry go from here? I'm certainly not going to commit this morning to another year of sequential growth across the board.
That's a very tall order.
But what I am willing to promise everyone is we're steadfastly committed to the challenge of improvement.
We remain optimistic with regard to our strategies and we are confident in our ability to continue to execute at a high level.
At the same time we remain cautious as we currently face our most difficult quarterly same-store sales comparison in a long time.
We are kicking off our new fiscal year with our 2012 National Sales Meeting here in Memphis this week.
This year as with previous years we've invited our senior field leadership to Memphis to celebrate our financial and operational performance launch our theme for 2012 and reiterate the key priorities for our organization.
While I'm happy to talk results with you on the phone today I'm more excited to greet and thank AutoZoners from across North America for their efforts that led us to delivering our results.
We continue to execute our strategies and we need to and will enthusiastically say thank you and congratulations to our organization.
These results are their results and they should take great pride in their performance.
At the meeting we'll announce our 2012 operating plan theme 1TEAM driving our future.
The emphasis will remain in 2012 on seamlessly incorporating our store-level Commercial and Retail business models.
I previously mentioned how staying consistent with our strategies has helped to define our success.
But in establishing our key objectives for 2012 I couldn't help but notice how much behind-the-scenes work we've done on challenging our status quo.
We are always challenging every aspect of our business.
We're constantly testing new ideas.
The result is investments that will continue to position our company for sustained growth.
This work has also helped shape our 2012 key priorities: number one great people providing great service; two profitably growing our Commercial business; three leveraging the Internet; and four hub store improvements.
And it goes without saying that we'll continue to focus on efforts to gain market share in Retail while driving Commercial performance even higher.
We'll recognize our store management teams for opening 145 net new domestic stores at 3.3% growth rate and our Mexico team for opening 41 new stores in 2011 a 17% store growth rate.
And we'll recognize ALLDATA for growing their business yet again in 2011.
Finally and probably the activity I look forward to most all week we'll recognize our best managers with a celebratory event and say thank you.
During this event we will host an open Q&amp;A session discussing the obstacles that are getting in their way for future improvements.
These managers are incredibly successful and the input they give us in this and other forms is invaluable.
Our continuing message will be focused on executing on the fundamentals.
We're committed to having the right AutoZoners providing the right customer service along with the right products at the right prices every day.
Regarding our fourth quarter results.
Our Total Auto Parts segment made up of both our domestic and Mexico businesses delivered an 8% increase.
Our Other businesses made up of ALLDATA and E-Commerce were up 11.8%.
While we've been pleased with this past year's performance we know there are alternative locations to shop.
That is why we focus on not only improving inventory coverage and our ability to say yes more frequently but also on delivering trustworthy advice.
Over the last several quarters not only have we delivered EPS growth in excess of 20% each quarter we've increased our investment in areas we believe will drive long-term growth.
We continue to open new stores both in the United States and Mexico at a combined annual growth rate of approximately 44%.
We've expanded our emphasis on hub store operations and are relocating or expanding many of our hub stores in order to ensure they have the physical capacity to execute the vision we have for them.
We've made considerable investments in our Commercial business expanding our sales force improving our technology opening new programs at an accelerating rate and increasing labor.
We've also intensified our training efforts and added labor in specific areas.
Finally we have continued to refine our merchandise placement efforts adding more late-model products while continually reducing less productive inventory.
While many of these efforts aren't radical shifts from our historical efforts combined they have been significant albeit low-risk enhancements to our offerings.
I'll take a moment now to talk more specifically about our fourth quarter performance in a little more detail.
As I mentioned our domestic same-store sales grew 4.5% for the quarter.
Our fourth quarter which ended August 27 did not experience the same type of variability in sales from week to week and region to region that our third quarter did.
Approximately 1.5 percentage points separated our 4 periods of same-store sales performance over the quarter.
While last year we estimated the severe heat contributed a couple of percentage points to the overall comp store sales results this year we estimated weather was neutral to last year therefore not contributing or hurting our comp store results.
We estimated the biggest headwind of sales performance during the quarter came from higher gas prices relative to last year's fourth quarter.
Our increased emphasis on the Commercial business again resulted in quite impressive results.
Our fourth quarter Commercial sales growth of 23.4% represents our largest rate of growth in recent history.
This represents our fifth straight quarter of 20%-plus sales growth and our 11th straight quarter of accelerating sales growth rate in this sector.
The fact that this quarter was our highest rate of growth is even more impressive when you consider that the comparison was against a 20.2% sales growth in the fourth quarter of last year.
Although we are pleased with our Commercial rate of growth we recognize that we currently have a small market share.
We understand this remains a tremendous opportunity for us.
Therefore we have and expect to continue to invest in order to grow sales and further capture profitable market share.
As we accelerate our investments to grow Commercial and as Commercial becomes the larger portion of our overall business our gross margin and SG&amp;A rates likely will continue to come under some pressure as these sales currently deliver lower margins.
However as we've stated in the past as we grow Commercial we are focused on growing operating profit dollars at strong levels of returns on the capital we deploy.
I'd also like to recognize our other businesses ALLDATA and E-Commerce for having another fine quarter up 11.8% in sales from this time last year.
We experienced faster sales growth in our other businesses both on the quarter and for the year than the Auto Parts stores.
And that's saying something considering we were quite pleased with our stores’ performance.
Now let me give some color on our mix of sales.
The mix continued to be led by failure in maintenance-related categories as discretionary sales were a smaller contributor.
Failure remained the largest portion at 45% of our total sales up from last year's fourth quarter of 44%.
Maintenance category sales represented 39% of sales while discretionary purchases were 16%.
There was not much shift change over the fourth quarter of last year.
Discretionary sales were down 1% of the mix versus last year while failure was up 1%.
As with last quarter we've begun to see a slowdown in general maintenance repairs being done.
While we did increase sales in maintenance-related categories we attribute the slowdown in the pace of growth more to the macro economy and higher gas prices throughout the quarter than weather which was the key driver in Q3.
Again while this segment of sales continues to show growth it is not at the pace experienced back in 2010.
We will continue to create marketing messages around this category to educate our customer base on the importance of routine maintenance.
This quarter regarding our Retail customer count and average ticket growth rate our average ticket remains strong better than previous quarters.
However transactions were down versus last year's fourth quarter.
This deceleration of transaction count in the DIY business can be attributed to several factors but the slowdown in maintenance-related transactions was a strong contributor.
Transactions with maintenance items attached are traditionally smaller-ticket transactions.
With maintenance-related categories showing slower growth the direct result has been a slowdown in overall transactions.
Before we leave this point I think it's important to highlight that there are structural forces at work in this industry that by themselves put pressure on transaction count while simultaneously driving increases in average ticket.
Specifically parts today are generally built to last longer and perform better than those built 10 or 20 years ago.
But to achieve those lengthened and improved performance intervals they have enhanced technology and those enhancements come at a higher cost.
We've been very successful dealing with these industry dynamics for more than a decade and don't see that changing for the foreseeable future.
Regarding our execution we continue to believe that superior execution can be a sustainable point of differentiation.
In an industry where changes to vehicle technology brands and systems are constant we have been keenly focused on evaluating the most efficient ways that we can fulfill our customers' needs.
We've been pleased with the enhancements we've made to our hub stores over the past year along with improved inventory coverage.
In addition with the average age of cars on the road increasing the last few years we're seeing the distribution by age of parts sold widening at both ends.
While the 7-year-old and older vehicle is our kind of vehicle on the Retail front it is noticeable that customers with considerably older than 7-year-old vehicles remain key customers for us.
And the demands from our Commercial customers continue to offer us opportunities to drive parts additions earlier in the vehicle life cycle which benefits both DIFM and DIY.
Additionally we've been very focused on leveraging the Internet across a variety of fronts.
We've been very pleased with our progress on developing our Internet offerings but we are in the very early innings of tapping into these growing customer segments that utilize this venue for ordering their parts and products.
Lastly on the people front we improved our training efforts and we continue to add AutoZoners to grow the business both for Retail and Commercial.
Next I'll give an update on our 2011 initiatives that supported our operating plan theme of 1TEAM Going the Extra Mile.
1TEAM is about our desire to ensure that we're providing the very best customer service experience to every customer regardless of how they interact with us.
This effort is around streamlining systems removing obstacles and in reinforcing to all AutoZoners to always put customers first regardless of how they interact with us.
1TEAM Going the Extra Mile was supported by our 2011 key priorities: great people providing great service; continual refinements and improvements in our hub strategy; leveraging the Internet; profitably growing Commercial; ever improving inventory management; and improved product assortment.
Let me go into a little more depth on our hub initiatives.
At this time a year ago we had completed the hub store conversions of our hub base at the time of 145.
We’d converted all our remaining hub locations to multiple daily deliveries to their respective satellite stores.
As we discussed previously the next phase is to expand many of our current hub stores which currently are space constrained.
This past year we expanded or relocated 20 hub stores.
We finished the year with 144 total hub locations opening one new location and consolidating 2 locations into one during fiscal 2011.
We have active efforts to relocate or expand approximately 40 additional hub locations and we are working on solutions for the remainder of our hub stores that don't currently meet our needs today.
These efforts are more impactful on capital expenditures going forward than operating expenses.
While the hub conversions and their enhanced delivery model created pressure on SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales during 2011 we see that pressure generally abating as the new year begins.
We continue to rely on our hub store network to supplement our replenishment efforts.
We continue to deploy new domestic and import parts coverage in our hub stores to be able to say yes even more frequently.
Parts proliferation in our industry is not stopping and our hub initiatives are allowing us to more strategically deploy our inventory assortment.
We do expect inventory per store levels to increase over time but we will manage that growth with an eye towards appropriate capital deployment.
I want to reiterate.
Our financial performance has been solid.
We are taking nothing for granted.
Our commitment to our ongoing planning efforts allows us good visibility into business trends and our team is committed to managing to those trends appropriately.
We have been very deliberate in how we manage expenses and capital in order to deliver consistent strong financial performance while at the same time positioning our business for long-term growth and we will continue with this strategy well into the future.
We should also highlight another strong performance in return on invested capital as we were able to grow this metric to 31.3% on a trailing 4-quarter basis which represents another new all-time high for our organization.
One of the big drivers of this growth has been the EBIT growth of the Commercial business.
While having a lower EBIT margin as a percent of sales which creates some margin rate pressure the capital requirements of the Commercial model are minimal.
The investments are mainly operating expense related.
AutoZoners who develop relationships and sell to our customers and other AutoZoners who provide great service to these important customers the ability to leverage our existing assets primarily AutoZoners store locations inventory and information systems across this additional customer base provides us with a terrific opportunity to grow operating profit dollars and drive incremental returns on capital.
It should be reiterated.
We will always maintain our diligence regarding capital stewardship as the capital we spend is our investors' capital.
Now I'll turn it over to Bill Giles to talk about our financial results for the quarter.
Bill? Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
To start this morning let me take a few moments to talk more specifically about our Retail Commercial and Mexico results.
For the quarter Total Auto Parts sales increased 8% on top of last year's fourth quarter's growth of 9.6%.
This segmentation includes our domestic Retail and Commercial businesses and our Mexico stores.
This quarter we completed category line reviews in 23 of our 40 major merchandise categories.
Improving our parts coverage remains a key priority.
Regarding macro trends during the fourth quarter unleaded gas prices started out at $3.97 a gallon and declined steadily finishing the quarter at $3.63 a gallon.
Last year gas prices declined similarly during the fourth quarter albeit from a substantially lower beginning point starting at $2.91 and ending at $2.68 a gallon.
The difference however of a barrel of oil is not as material from last year to this year.
On the last day of the quarter last year a barrel of oil was $75.
The last day of this year's quarter was $85 a barrel which may imply prices at the pump could or hopefully should decline around $3 a gallon to be in line with last year.
But the good news in the story is oil is down from $97 a barrel at the end of our third fiscal quarter in early May.
While lower gas prices certainly should benefit our customers' ability to spend going forward we're still cautious and the uptick in purchasing behavior did not materialize during the last couple of weeks of the quarter as gas did decline slightly.
At the same time with high gas prices we have an opportunity for us to communicate with our customers on steps they can take to improve their gas mileage.
Miles driven remains less of a story to our near-term sales results than in previous years.
Recently May and June were negative 1.9% and 1.4% respectively.
Year-to-date through June miles driven are down 1.1%.
While recently we have seen no correlation in our sales performance with miles driven historically it has been one of the key statistics which correlate to our sales results over the long term.
The other is the number of 7-year-old and older vehicles on the road which continues to trend in our industry's favor.
We also recognize that miles driven on cars over 10 years old the current average is much different than on newer cars in terms of wear and tear.
For the trailing 4 quarters Total Auto Parts sales per square foot were $258.
This statistic continues to set the pace for the rest of the industry.
Over the last 3 years due to the strength in our DIY same-store sales significant improvements in our Commercial business and the improvement in our new store productivity our average annual new store volume has increased by 11%.
This impressive improvement is a key contributor to our record EBIT margin percent and our record ROIC.
For the quarter total Commercial sales increased 23.4%.
Our strong results which began to accelerate in Q1 of fiscal 2010 continued throughout the year.
For the fourth quarter Commercial represented 14.1% of our total sales.
While last fiscal year we generated $880 million in Commercial sales this year we finished with $1.76 billion in sales for Commercial.
Our entire organization is very proud surpassing the $1 billion mark a key objective for fiscal 2011 but we realize we have much work to do as our market share remains small.
As we have said previously we have been very pleased with the progress we are making in this business both operationally and financially.
We believe there are ample opportunities for us to continue to improve many facets of our operations and offerings and therefore we are quite optimistic about the future of this business.
Our sales growth has come from both existing and new customers.
We continue to believe we can grow revenues in existing stores and we will continue to open additional Commercial programs.
This past quarter we opened 104 new programs.
For the year we opened 235 new programs up from 121 programs during fiscal 2010.
We now have our Commercial program in 2 659 stores supported by 144 hub stores.
With only 59% of our domestic stores having a Commercial program and our average revenue per program materially below several of our competitors we believe there's ample opportunity for additional program growth in addition to improved productivity opportunities from existing and current programs.
Our focus this past year was to build upon the Commercial initiatives that have been in place for well over a year.
We continue to watch our sales force mature from its inception just 3 years ago.
We are also enhancing training and introducing additional technology to optimize the productivity of our sales force.
We've increased our efforts around analyzing customer purchasing trends and in-stock trends.
We've had 17 consecutive quarters of sales growth.
We have a model that is successful and we are continuing to test additional enhancements to our offering.
In addition to our focus on further developing our sales force we have continued to add significant resources to our Commercial business from additional late-model import and domestic coverage both in satellite and hub stores to additional labor hours and trucks.
In summary we remain committed to building a platform for long-term growth at a deliberate pace growth in both sales and profits.
Our Commercial business remains on track and we're excited about our continuing opportunities.
Our Mexico stores continue to perform well.
We opened 18 new stores during the fourth quarter and currently have 279 stores in Mexico.
We remain resolute on our strategy to open stores at a steady pace while managing our Mexico business for the long run.
We have operated stores in Mexico for over 12 years and we continue to see a great opportunity for growth going forward.
Our returns and profit growth have been in line with our expectations.
Our customers as well as our employees have embraced the AutoZone culture.
Regarding the announcement of future store growth in Brazil we're targeting opening our first store there late in calendar 2012.
Beyond that there's nothing new to report.
Recapping our fourth quarter performance for the company in total.
Our sales for the fourth quarter were $2.642 billion an increase of 8% from last year's fourth quarter.
Domestic same-store sales or sales for stores open more than one year were up 4.5% for the quarter.
Gross margin for the quarter was 51.2% of sales up 69 basis points compared to last year's fourth quarter.
The improvement in gross margin was attributable to lower shrink expense and higher merchandise margins.
Shrink results continue to be favorable.
Our field and loss prevention teams have undertaken several initiatives over the past few years that have led to improving our results.
While we have benefited in the last 3 quarters from lower shrink expense we recognize savings only after we’ve physically counted our stores and distribution centers and there can be no guarantee that this trend will continue although we were pleased with our results throughout 2011.
The increased merchandise margin benefited from Retail price increases on commodity-based products which were partially offset by the increased penetration of Commercial sales.
In regards to inflation we have seen rising cost in commodity-related products.
Although certain categories have experienced some higher levels of inflation taken as a whole inflation hasn't been the material component of our overall gross margin improvements.
We will remain cognizant of future developments regarding inflation and we'll make the appropriate adjustments should they arise.
Looking forward we continue to believe there remains opportunity for gross margin expansion.
However we do not manage to a targeted gross profit margin percentage.
We are focused on growing absolute gross profit dollars and gross profit dollars in our Total Auto Parts segment were up 9.6% for the quarter.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 31.4% of sales up 19 basis points from last year's fourth quarter.
The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of sales was the result of higher self-insurance cost and higher fuel cost primarily related to Commercial deliveries partially offset by leverage due to higher sales volumes.
While our operating expense percentage growth has increased faster than square footage growth over the last 3 years we have purposefully invested these dollars to position the company for future sales and profit growth.
This organization takes great pride in our disciplined approach to managing our cost structure and leveraging our culture of thrift and we remain committed to appropriately managing expenses in line with our overall performance.
We continue to believe we are well positioned to manage our cost structure for the foreseeable future.
EBIT for the quarter was $524 million up 10.8% over last year's fourth quarter.
Our EBIT margin improved to 19.8% or 50 basis points versus the previous year's fourth quarter.
Interest expense for the quarter was $53.8 million compared with $49.4 million in Q4 a year ago an 8.9% increase.
Debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $3.352 billion or approximately $443 million more than last year's balance of $2.908 billion.
I'll point out that just last week we amended our existing 3-year credit agreement and extended it to 5 years now expiring in 2016.
We appreciate the partnerships we have with our bank group and we were happy to have this transaction complete allowing for additional borrowing capacity if necessary starting this fiscal year.
Our adjusted debt level metric finished the quarter at 2.4x EBITDAR.
While in any given quarter we may increase or decrease debt level based on management's opinion regarding debt and equity market conditions we remain committed to both our investment grade rating and our capital allocation strategy and share repurchases are an important element of that strategy.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 35.9% down from last year's fourth quarter of 36.5%.
We expect to be closer to 37% on an ongoing basis.
Settlement of discrete tax items helped our results this past quarter.
Net income for the quarter of $301 million is up 12.1% versus the prior year's fourth quarter.
Our diluted share count of 42 million was down approximately 12% from last year's fourth quarter.
The combination of these factors drove earnings per share for the quarter to $7.18 up 26.9% over the prior year's fourth quarter.
Relating to the cash flow statement for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2011 we generated $395 million of operating cash flow.
In fiscal 2011 we generated a record $1.292 billion of operating cash.
This represented an 8% increase over last year and approximately $1 billion more than our cash outflows from investing.
With the excess cash flow we repurchased $433 million of AutoZone stock in the fourth quarter.
For the fiscal year we repurchased 5.6 million shares of common stock for $1.5 billion.
At the end of the quarter we had $219 million remaining under our share buyback authorization.
We continue to view our share repurchase program as an attractive capital deployment strategy.
Live-to-date we crossed over $10 billion of stock purchases this past quarter.
Accounts payable as a percent of growth inventory finished the quarter at 112% versus 106% in last year's fourth quarter.
Next I'd like to update you on our inventory levels in total and on a per store basis.
We reported an inventory balance of $2.5 billion up 7% versus the Q4 ending balance last year.
Increased inventory reflects new store growth along with additional investments and coverage for select categories.
In total our inventory balance is down from our third quarter.
Net fixed assets were up 6% versus last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $121 million and reflected the additional expenditures required to open 91 new stores this quarter capital expenditures on existing stores and work on development of new stores for upcoming quarters.
With the new stores opened we finished this past quarter with 4 534 stores in 48 states the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico and 279 stores in Mexico for a total store count of 4 813.
Depreciation totaled $62 million -- $62.9 million for the quarter versus last year's fourth quarter expense of $62.2 million.
Finally as Bill previously mentioned our continued disciplined capital management approach resulted in return on invested capital for the trailing 4 quarters of 31.3%.
We have and we'll continue to make investments that we believe will generate returns that significantly exceed our cost of capital.
Now I'll turn it back to Bill Rhodes.
Thank you Bill.
Before we conclude I want to take the opportunity to reflect on fiscal 2011.
Our organization built on the successes of the last few years and delivered even better results this past year.
We are very pleased with these accomplishments and I'd like to review a few of those accomplishments in recognition of the dedication passion and commitment of our AutoZoners.
We built on the last 2 years strong same-store sales results by growing 6.3% versus last year's 5.4% and fiscal 2009's 4.4% our best 3-year comp performance since 2000 to 2002.
We continue to build our Commercial business growing sales by 22.3% and our program count by 235 or 10% over the ending count in 2010.
And as previously mentioned we surpassed $1 billion in Commercial sales for the year.
We opened a total of 188 stores including 41 stores in Mexico.
We grew EBIT 13% and EPS by 30% on top of 28% last year.
This year's EBIT margin of 18.5% represents an all-time high exceeding last year's 17.9%.
Our return on invested capital reached as Bill said a record 31.3% at the end of the year.
We also generated approximately $1.3 billion in operating cash flow.
We repurchased stock representing over 10% of the current market capitalization for the third year in a row.
And lastly none of this could have been possible without our AutoZoners' continued dedication to providing the industry's best customer service.
Their dedication defines who we are and they are directly responsible for these record-breaking results.
Our major objectives for 2012 will sound very familiar.
They're great people providing great service profitably growing our Commercial business leveraging the Internet and continuing to refine our hub strategy.
I should stress our industry has had favorable macro factors these past few years and this positively contributed to our success.
But what helped our performance specifically was our organization being well positioned and prepared to capitalize on these favorable trends.
How long will these factors positively influence our performance? We don't know the answer but we do know that we can manage our business effectively and profitably regardless of the economic cycle as evidenced by our string of 20 consecutive double-digit EPS growth quarters.
Unfortunately our past successes are just that: in the past.
We cannot rest on our laurels and you have our commitment that we will not.
Finally before we move to Q&amp;A I want to again thank and congratulate our entire organization for their dedication to our customers fellow AutoZoners stockholders and the communities we serve.
Our approach remains consistent.
We are focused on succeeding in the first quarter of 2012 and we are optimistic and excited about our new fiscal year.
Now we'd like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Gary Balter with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It's Gary and Simeon.
Could you talk -- in Commercial you keep on showing better and better numbers and you obviously have some strong momentum.
When you look at the market share that you have it's obviously quite small and it's still very fragmented who do you think you're taking it from? Are you taking it from 2-step or 3-step? Are you taking it from some of the bigger players? Where's that share coming from? Well if you look at the -- let's start with the NPD information that we have.
The whole market is growing on the NPD side and growing fairly robustly.
We're just outpacing that market fairly significantly in our performance.
I don't think we're "taking" share from them.
What I see is the whole market’s growing.
We’re just having outpaced growth.
And then we don't have good visibility into the piece that's outside of NPD but my suspicion is that's where we're probably having the most impact.
Research Division</strong> Or maybe said another way where's the value add that you're providing that's creating that traffic that's leading to share gain or leading to just stronger results? How are you approaching the market differently than what's out there? I think for us we went back a couple of years ago really about 3.5 years ago now and really focused and defined a new strategy.
And a big element of that new strategy was number one getting the foundational elements of our business right.
What does that mean? That means making sure we've got the right parts coverage making sure that we have the right people with the right set of training and tools capable to deliver excellent customer service.
We also supplemented it with our hub stores which have significantly improved our coverage especially on late-model coverage and then we've rolled out and developed this really fantastic outside sales force that's continuing to mature.
And so it wasn't any trick plays.
It was just doing the basics of the business which is what we've learned in Retail is what works and that's our strength.
It's just doing it day in and day out.
Core execution can be a point of differentiation.
Research Division</strong> It's Simeon.
If I can just ask 2 follow-ups one tied to that question.
Can you separate out the number of new accounts you're picking up in Commercial versus increased penetration of existing? And then second unrelated on gross margin I looked back at the press releases.
It looks like second quarter this year you started calling it out as a benefit.
So what's the opportunity left there? It looks like the comparisons will just get more difficult when you get to Q2 next year.
Or are there more savings and a higher ramp to come? I'll take the first part and then Bill Giles will answer the second.
When we look at our business as far as new customers further penetration of retained customers and frankly lost customers we're seeing improvements in each one of those metrics and we're seeing them kind of quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year.
So that's a good indication for us that we're continuing to improve on all fronts.
And Simeon on the gross margin when you said that we called out in second quarter I'm going to assume you meant shrink.
And so we have had some good shrink results in Q2 3 and 4 and we put some things in place in the field level some initiatives in place that we really believe provide us a better ability to manage shrink going forward.
And so there's no guarantee as to what shrink will be on a go-forward basis but we believe that we have a process in place that is somewhat sustainable.
And so although we may not achieve incremental improvements over what we have reported our objective is to maintain where we are and make some incremental improvements along the way that might be a little bit smaller.
Our next question is from Alan Rifkin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> The 104 programs on the Commercial side that were added in the fourth quarter mark some pretty significant acceleration over what you've done in prior quarters.
Is that a run rate that we should think is achievable going forward? That's a great question Alan.
And obviously we've gained over the course of the year more and more confidence in our ability to open very productive new Commercial programs.
But as you would expect from us we're going to be methodical about it.
We have plans to grow at a rate similar to the way we grew this year but those plans aren't set in stone.
We're going to look at the stores we opened in the fourth quarter continue to work on them make sure that they continue to improve and once they do then we'll go to the next batch.
And we're going to continue that all along the way.
If for some reason they continue to accelerate we might accelerate our plans.
If for another reason they slow we'll slow down and we'll go focus on the elements that are making them not be as successful as we want.
So our plans in that regard are somewhat fluid but we certainly see a tremendous opportunity for more programs over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then Bill based on that commentary can we infer from your remarks that you're actually seeing greater benefits than what you thought which was a reason for you accelerating the program? I think we opened about 3x the number of programs in 2011 than we had in the previous several years.
I think -- and it doesn't take a rocket scientist to look at we were up 22.3% in our Commercial business.
So we have a much higher level of comfort in our plans going forward than we did a couple of years ago.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A question for Bill Giles.
Bill I know you said that about 59% of your stores today had the Commercial program in them what do you think that that number can ultimately become? And if we do the calculation your revenues per store on the Commercial side are still below that of some of your competitors.
Is there any reason for us to believe that you cannot achieve revenues on the Commercial side per store that are on par with some of your competitors out there? Yes we certainly don't believe that there are any structural barriers that would prevent us from improving the productivity of our Commercial program significantly over what they have done already.
In fact we had very good performance in improving the productivity of the existing base stores in addition to the 9% openings that we've had just over the last year or so.
And relative to what the percentage is we haven't targeted a percentage exactly.
I mean one thing for sure is the trade areas of the Commercial programs are broader than the trade area of individual AutoZone stores.
So we don't envision ourselves ever getting to 100% but certainly we believe that we can increase to 59% significantly over the next few years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last question if I may.
With you folks likely so focused on returns what is the return period that you're seeing once you do add a Commercial program to the store? How long does it take you to earn your money back? Well it's relatively quick.
I couldn't give you -- I don't -- I'm not going to give you a specific timeframe because again the model continues to evolve and we're opening a lot of stores as I said recently.
But think about it this way it's that the incremental investment on a Commercial program is relatively small.
We're utilizing the existing base assets of the store.
We're adding a truck or 2 or 3 a few people to support that.
There is a little bit of incremental inventory although obviously on our AP and inventory ratio of over 100% [Technical Difficulty] So overall the investment is relatively small and so we can -- that's actually what helps drive the ROIC.
As we've mentioned before I mean the productivity of the overall box is up over 11% over the last couple of years and a lot of that is the Commercial programs driving it and we're really excited about what we see in front of us relative to our ability to open more programs improve the productivity of our existing base programs.
And it's a unique model in this industry to be able to have 2 businesses out of one box.
Our next question is from Kate McShane with Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> With your investment in Commercial you had mentioned the extension of some of the hub stores and that will be more CapEx than SG&amp;A related and that SG&amp;A dollar growth could be abating a little bit next year.
So can you help us reconcile how we should think about SG&amp;A going forward as you continue to focus on the investment in Commercial? I think the investment in Commercial will really be able to support the new programs so some of the things that I was articulating in the last question relative to adding some payroll dollars from a Commercial perspective to support the Commercial business in the store some trucks.
There's some operating expenses there but they're not as significant.
On the hub stores what we'd always talked about in the last couple of years was that when we went to multiple deliveries that increased some of the SG&amp;A cost.
And that's why you saw maybe close to 10 basis points of deleverage in SG&amp;A we articulated over the last several quarters.
We think that we'll begin the anniversary of that and then that won't be as much of a headwind going forward.
You're right.
The work that we're going to do on the hubs as far as expanding them and making them larger will be more from a CapEx perspective.
So there’ll be CapEx dollars to expand the hubs we don't see a significant SG&amp;A investment in the hubs going forward relative to where we are today.
But some of the investment will be in the Commercial programs expanding new programs not necessarily the existing programs.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And with Commercial leveraging your store base and increasing productivity how do you view fulfillment of orders through E-Commerce as that becomes a bigger portion of your business? The most important thing for us is being able to provide the customers the most convenient way for them to conduct business.
And many customers prefer to be able to process their orders electronically.
So on autozonepro.com they have the ability to get on and process their orders and there's no telephone call involved.
And the stores get those orders immediately and fulfill them just as if they had answered them over the telephone.
So they'll get an order that will print out in the stores and we’ll fulfill those orders out of the Commercial program and deliver them directly to the customer.
So it's a seamless operation.
And we're somewhat indifferent.
We'd love to see the electronic orders continue to improve because we think it's more efficient for both us and our customers.
But more importantly we want to be able to provide the customers with however they want to conduct business the most efficient way possible.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then if I can ask one final question.
With the multiple deliveries and the way the Commercial business is structured is there any way to mitigate the impact of higher fuel costs? I think that would be a challenge.
We haven't really identified a way.
I mean there's ways for us to improve some of the routes et cetera but that's more on line in the hubs.
From a Commercial perspective not so much because it's not the hotshot business.
Your next question is from Aram Rubinson with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Two things.
One could you remind us why we take margin on commodity prices when it’s inflationary out there to begin with? And then I had a follow-up.
Sure.
Some of that is that you have some retail prices that you raise as you get increased cost.
In certain instances the retail price may come ahead of when the weighted average cost goes through the system.
So you wind up with some improvement in margin.
Research Division</strong> And that normalizes over time how philosophically does that balance let's say over the course of somewhat of an inflationary period? Depending on the turn of the product.
For example on some of the commodity-based products they turn a little bit faster that timeframe would be fairly short.
Research Division</strong> And are you seeing the competitors out there? I know you mentioned there was – it’s always a difficult competitive environment.
I guess the motivation behind it and what you're seeing the competitors and are you providing them a little bit of an umbrella by doing that? Well everybody is going to get priced somewhat to the same.
I mean it's very difficult to have a competitive advantage on pricing on a sustained basis so everybody will wind up pricing about the same.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question is just on payables.
By our calculation your AP days are a little north of 250 days.
I assume there's a wide range around that.
Do you have any of that touch 365? And if so is there a geography on the balance sheet where those begin to appear? And then looking at the total vendor funding does it -- do we capture it all looking at just the APs which are short-term liability? No they’re short-term liability.
We have some that are approaching but nobody's over what you would consider long term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we don't need to look for other long-term liabilities or anything like that just yet? That's correct.
Our next question is from John Lawrence with Morgan Keegan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you comment Bill just a little bit -- you made a comment on the cost side but following up on another question can you -- if you look at those stores on a Commercial side that have been expanded now for several years what would that range of success be over the last year from stores that are newly expanded or enhanced for those programs that have been out there for a period of time? Yes I would say that we're seeing significant improvements in the stores that have been open for 8 or 10 years or programs that have been open for 8 or 10 years.
And we're also seeing improvement in the stores that we opened over the last 2 or 3 years and we're also seeing improvements in the productivity of the stores that we opened this year.
So on all fronts we're seeing improvements.
And I think it goes back to what we talked about earlier that we continue to make significant improvements in those foundational elements.
And that work’s not finished.
We'll continue to refine our offerings.
But we've made some pretty significant progress on that front.
And I think the customers have seen it and that's benefited us across the board.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I apologize.
I ask it all the time but I mean when you look to the progress of some of those areas and those trade areas I mean there's a lot of factors that people are coming back to you and either using you for the first time or giving you a shot at that business.
I mean is there anything in particular you can point to that -- is it expanded coverage or the real -- I know there's not a silver bullet but what really drives that decision as some of these decisions are coming back to you now that weren't say 2 or 3 years ago? Yes unfortunately I can't point to one.
I think it's a holistic approach.
And it’s the rising tide lifts all boats.
They have confidence in the quality of our products.
They have confidence in our store AutoZoners being able to deliver.
We have much improved coverage so our ability to say yes more frequently now is significantly higher than it was 4 years ago.
And then we've got a great sales force that's out there telling our story and is in those shops reminding them every day that we want to earn their business.
And so I think it's a culmination of all those that's really driving our performance.
Our next question is from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-up questions the first on the commodity price dynamic.
What’ll happen as input prices start to level off or come down? Do you typically see the list price come down and consequently the margin follow? Or is there a period of even better margin performance where the inputs are down and the street price is a bit sticky? I would say it's also dependent upon what happens in the marketplace as well because obviously we don't operate in a silos so it depends on how everyone else reacts from a pricing perspective.
But yes overall I would say is that there might be a little bit of a margin pressure if prices were to come down fairly significantly fairly quickly.
Research Division</strong> And have you seen peers before where commodity inflation has actually helped margin rate? Or is this fairly unique to this moment? No I'd say it's -- we've seen it before.
I would say we've seen it before and it's not surprising necessarily when it happens.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then my second follow-up just relates to your self-insurance number.
If you could give us a little color on that how often could that recur might that recur? Is that just sort of an occasional item or sort of a truing up if you will? I would classify it as an occasional item.
It's incident based.
And so we probably had some favorability last year that wasn't overly significant.
This year we had a couple of unfavorable incidents during the quarter that drove up the expense for this quarter.
So on a year-over-year compare it was a little bit more significant.
Research Division</strong> So if everything were level and it was kind of business as usual next year this wouldn't be part of the base it would be an easier compare on the expense side? Right.
Our next question is from Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Patrick Palfrey sitting in for Scot.
I guess just first off you mentioned that sales in the quarter were less variable in the prior quarter.
Would it be safe to assume that consistent trend’s carried into September? As we've done on every one of our calls we don't really want to get into what's happening with the current quarter sales trajectory because we release our earnings and do this conference call so early in the quarter.
We're only 3 weeks into our quarter and so I really don't want anybody to try to read anything into short -- very short-term sales trends.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
But then I guess just digging a little more into the structural changes and the ticket transaction I guess how much do you think you can offset some of the structural transaction pressures from increasing the Commercial sales transaction count? And I guess just looking at tickets how much is the increasing ticket coming from the structural improvements that you were talking about versus increasing Commercial sales? Yes let me refine that.
When we were talking about transaction versus average ticket we were talking about the DIY business on a standalone basis.
So the challenge that we have there is over time parts are lasting longer.
So the number of cycles that you get on a starter or alternator or spark plugs or whatever the case may be is fewer than it used to be.
But the cost of those products because they're improved they're significantly more expensive.
And that's a trend -- we were actually looking at it again yesterday.
That's a trend that's been going on since 1995.
And we've been able to very effectively manage our way through it.
So it's not anything that's alarming to us.
Our final question today is from Chris Horvers with JPMC.
Research Division</strong> I'm trying to understand not necessarily asking about the current quarter but that 150 basis points of variability.
Was there any kind of better at the back end of the quarter versus the front end in the quarter? Or is it just kind of normal noise in monthly numbers? Yes I think it's absolutely normal noise in the monthly numbers.
You also -- when you're looking at monthly numbers it depends on what happened last year as well and there were some -- a lot of very warm days in this year and in the last year.
And so if they weren't hitting at the same time that -- so I wouldn't call anything in there significant.
The only thing that we would say was significant is that gas prices were up quite a bit.
And that was for the most part over the whole quarter.
Research Division</strong> But I think Bill mentioned that the discretionary -- it didn't sound like that really had an impact positive or negative to your business overall the gas prices.
Weather or gas prices? Research Division</strong> Gas prices.
No I think gas prices absolutely hurt us during the quarter.
Research Division</strong> But you didn't necessarily see a rebound in the discretionary side at the end of the quarter? No but I don't think you're necessarily going to see gas prices only affect the discretionary side of the business.
I think it's going to affect maintenance more so than anything else.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then the leading question is is that fair to think that the maintenance side improved as gas prices receded? I think it's too early to tell.
The gas price changes were very short at the end of the quarter and we're not really watching it that close every day.
We're just trying to make sure we're doing what's right for the long term of our business.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just on the inflation side some people in your industry have talked about the not wanting to lead on price and some of the inflation hitting their cost but not passing it through or wanting to pass it through on a delayed basis -- what you're talking about today on the commodity pass-through does that jive with what they're saying meaning that yes it's being finally passed through on the lag? Or is this just a whole another topic? Well the way I would address it is number one we're not doing anything different than we've done for a very long period of time.
When we look at our business and our trajectory and what's going on with our cost we make pricing decisions that are based upon the facts that we have at hand and -- but we're also willing to go out and move our prices up even before the rest of the market moves.
Now if they don't move we're not going to be in a noncompetitive position on price.
So we're willing to move first but if others don't move then we're going to make sure that our prices are competitive.
All right.
Well before we conclude the call I'd like to take a moment to reiterate that our business model remains very solid.
We remain excited about our growth prospects for the upcoming year.
We cannot take anything for granted as we understand our customers have alternatives.
Our culture remains our key point of differentiation from our competition and we must not lose sight of the importance of basic store execution in order to remain very successful.
We have a solid plan for 2012 and as usual our team cannot wait to get started.
But I want to stress that this is a marathon and not a sprint as we will continue to focus on the basics and never take our eye off of optimizing long-term shareholder value.
We are confident AutoZone will continue to be incredibly successful.
We thank you for participating in today's call.
Hope you all have a great day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the AutoZone Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
This conference call will discuss AutoZone's first quarter financial results.
Bill Rhodes the company's Chairman President and CEO will be making a short presentation of the highlights of the quarter.
This conference call will end promptly at 10 a.m.
Central Time 11 a.m.
Eastern time.
Before Mr.
Rhodes begins the company has requested that you listen to the following statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use words such as believe anticipate should intend plan will expect estimate project positioned strategy and similar expressions.
These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends current conditions expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including without limitation: credit market conditions; the impact of recessionary conditions; competition; product demand; the ability to hire and retain qualified employees; consumer debt levels; inflation; weather; raw material costs of our suppliers; energy prices; war and the prospect of war including terrorist activity; availability of consumer transportation; construction delays; access to available and feasible financing; and changes in laws or regulations.
Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 27 2011 and these risk factors should be read carefully.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone's Fiscal 2012 First Quarter Conference Call.
With me today are Bill Giles Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Store Development and IT; and Brian Campbell Vice President Treasurer Investor Relations and Tax.
Regarding the first quarter I hope you've had an opportunity to read our press release and learn about the quarter's results.
If not the press release along with slides complementing our comments today is available on our website www.autozoneinc.com.
Please click on Quarterly Earnings Conference Calls to see them.
We are pleased to announce our fiscal -- our financial results and update you on our progress regarding our operational activities for 2012.
Regarding the numbers our EPS for the first quarter increased by 24% another strong financial quarter for us as our domestic same-store sales increased 4.6%.
This marks the 12th consecutive quarter of EPS growth in excess of 20% and the 21st consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth.
Our sales and operating profit growth rates were in line with the last couple of quarters continuing to be driven by our focus on maintaining our competitive position within the retail sales category strong performance in our Commercial sales category and continuing to grow our Mexico ALLDATA and E-Commerce businesses.
We continue to be pleased with our performance in each of these sectors.
Again the credit for our success belongs to all AutoZoners across our great organization.
Their continued focus on improving customer service is what's differentiating us on an ongoing basis.
I know phrases like focusing on customer service can seem overused these days but it's how we run our business.
From our most senior leaders of the organization to each and every store we talk about and develop strategies to improve our interactions with our customers.
It's this ongoing focus that we believe is resulting in strong sales and profit results.
With our first quarter sales up 7.4% over last year we were again successful at growing our businesses both Retail and Commercial and across our Mexico ALLDATA and E-Commerce businesses.
Customers continued to shop with us this past quarter to find good values in order to effectively maintain repair and enhance their vehicles.
Our Retail business performed well again this quarter despite very significant same-store sales growth last year.
In fact this was our highest Retail same-store sales comparison since the second quarter of fiscal 2003.
Our domestic Commercial sales growth exceeded 20% for the sixth straight quarter and we grew our other businesses made up of ALLDATA and E-Commerce by 9.6%.
These increases in general were consistent with last quarter's results.
In an effort to address questions that may be on some listener's minds this morning I thought I'd spend a moment discussing what we did see from the customer that was new or different and what were we doing to manage these effects.
First in regards our Retail customers as it is the largest segment of our sales mix it has been and remains at the top of our key priorities.
With respect to our Retail customer simply put we didn't see a large change in the shopping or buying behaviors.
Our sales mix changed only slightly from last quarter and in line with seasonal selling patterns.
Failure-related items as we define them continued to be our largest selling category representing approximately 45% of our mix.
Customers this past quarter continued to fix their cars as this category represents merchandise that is the most consistent in terms of demand from customers.
Much like the recent past we saw our discretionary merchandise categories be a smaller percentage of our business in the mid-teens.
Customers continue to manage their expenditures very closely and we're seeing them remain cautious in this area.
Finally regarding our maintenance categories they like last quarter represented approximately 40% of the mix.
Regarding our good better best selection of goods we did not see a material change in the selling mix.
While we don't disclose overall mixes in these categories we've done a good job of educating our customers on the value proposition of our better and best grades of merchandise and in fact we've been successful at migrating sales up in several categories.
Heading into the remainder of our fiscal year we're continuing to focus our marketing messages on maintenance-related categories as we believe the economy and our customer's ability to spend will remain challenged for the near term.
So overall the buying behaviors for our consumer remained somewhat consistent during the quarter.
Now let me review our operating theme for 2012.
1Team Driving our Future.
The key priorities for the year are great people providing great service profitably growing our Commercial business leveraging the Internet and hub store improvements.
On the Retail front this past quarter under the great people providing great service theme we spent a tremendous amount of energy on execution.
We've made our primary messages to the field organization focused on culture and driving the theme of putting customers first.
This meant increased training for managers and our part sales specialists.
We've been driving home the theme of exceeding our customers’ expectations when they come into our stores.
We're also communicating more and more frequently with our stores through Internet tools to establish further store-level key performance indicators.
This is all with the goal of driving consistent store-level service and execution.
We continue to believe the more we understand about our customers’ shopping and buying patterns the better we'll be able to service their needs and help them buy what they want.
And through utilizing our hub network more we continue to drive more inventory especially late-model coverage closer to our end consumers.
We are encouraged by the progress we have made here as we're able to say yes to our customers in terms of parts availability more frequently much more frequently than we were just a few years ago.
On the Commercial front we continued executing our game plan opening 74 new programs and growing our business with existing customers.
We now have Commercial in 2 733 stores or 60% of our domestic store base.
We will discuss in more detail our operating performance later in the call.
However I will say we continue to see opportunities for sales growth from both existing programs and through opening new ones.
Regarding our first quarter sales results our Total Auto Parts segment made up of both our Domestic and Mexico businesses delivered a 7.4% increase.
Our other businesses made up of ALLDATA and E-Commerce were up 9.6%.
During the quarter we continued to open new stores both in the United States and Mexico 17 net new stores in the U.S.
and 2 in Mexico and expect to grow our square footage for the year at a combined annual growth rate of approximately 4%.
We also continued our hub store expansion and relocation efforts this past quarter.
With a total of 145 hubs we expanded our hub count this past quarter.
We also expanded 4 locations adding a material amount of square footage while relocating 2 locations.
Since we’ve begun our efforts on redefining our hub network and square footage needs we've modified 30 hubs.
As we continued to see traction from utilizing and expanding the reach of our hub network by expanding sales from new hub store SKU additions plus related parts sales we see the potential to modify in some ways more than 50 locations over the next couple of years.
While we’ve spent a lot of time highlighting our hub strategy the strategy is hopefully a simple one to understand.
As customers are demanding more SKU availability on a just-in-time basis we see our hub strategy as a way to deploy inventory into a market without adding additional inventory to every store.
It allows us the opportunity to aggregate demand of many stores which affords us the opportunity to be more aggressive with inventory additions at the hubs.
As we have made considerable investments in our Commercial business our hub stores help us meet our professional customers’ needs better today and these inventory additions help our Retail business as well.
Finally we continued in general to refine our merchandise placement efforts adding more late-model products while continually reducing less productive inventory.
I'll take a moment now to talk more specifically about our first quarter performance in a little more detail.
As I've mentioned our domestic same-store sales grew 4.6% for the quarter.
Our first quarter which ended November 9 did not experience much variability in sales results from week-to-week or period-to-period.
Like our last quarter approximately 1.5 percentage points separated our 3 periods of same-store sales performance over the quarter.
While last year we estimated weather contributed up to 20% of our 9.5% comp this year we estimated weather had a neutral to slightly negative effect on sales therefore slightly hurting our comp store results.
We estimated the single biggest headwind to sales performance during the quarter came from higher gas prices relative to last year's first quarter as gas prices remained higher by approximately 25% year-over-year.
Our increased emphasis on the Commercial business again resulted in quite impressive results.
Our first quarter Commercial sales growth of 22.6% represents our sixth straight quarter of 20% sales growth -- 20%-plus sales growth.
While we were able -- we weren't able to keep our accelerating growth trend growing as last quarter we grew at a record 23.4% we're still quite happy with our results.
While we are pleased with our Commercial rate of growth we recognize that we currently have a small market share and this remains a tremendous opportunity for us both in terms of growing the number of programs that we currently have as well as improving the productivity of our existing programs.
Therefore we have and expect to continue to invest in order to grow sales and further capture profitable market share.
As we accelerate our investments to grow Commercial and as Commercial becomes a larger portion of our overall business our gross margin and operating expense rates will be pressured as Commercial is a lower-margin business.
However as we've stated in the past as we grow Commercial we're focused on growing operating profit dollars at strong levels of return on the capital we deploy.
I should state however while Commercial is dilutive to our overall margins the Commercial business operating margin continues to increase despite these heavy investments and the expectation is that over time it will only continue to do so.
I'd also like to recognize our other businesses ALLDATA and E-Commerce for having another fine quarter up 9.6% in sales from this time last year.
This section of our business while small as a percentage of our overall sales mix continues to experience faster growth than the Auto Parts stores and that's quite an accomplishment considering we've remained very pleased with our store's performance.
This quarter regarding our Commercial -- our Retail customer count and average ticket growth rates average ticket remains strong.
Better than previous quarters.
However transactions were down versus last year's first quarter.
The story here was similar to last quarter where the deceleration of transaction count in the DIY business could be attributed to several factors.
However the slowdown in maintenance-related categories remained a strong contributor.
Transactions with maintenance items attached are traditionally smaller ticket transactions.
With maintenance-related categories showing slower growth the direct result has been a slowdown in overall transactions.
We understand maintenance-related sales can be challenging for our DIY customers in this difficult economic environment.
That is why much of our messaging is aimed at the importance of properly maintaining your vehicle.
Additionally as previously mentioned our Q1 Retail sales performance was exceptionally strong last year so annualizing those gains -- those traffic gains was a difficult comparison.
Regarding our execution.
We continue to believe that superior execution can be a sustainable point of differentiation.
In an industry where changes to vehicle technology brands and systems are constant we've been keenly focused on evaluating the most efficient ways that we can fulfill our customers’ needs.
We've been pleased with the enhancements we have made to our hubs over the past year along with the improved inventory coverage.
In addition with the average age of cars on the road increasing the last few years we're seeing the distribution by age of parts sold widening at both ends.
While a 7-year-old motor vehicle is our kind of vehicle on the Retail front it is noticeable that customers with considerably older than 7-year-old vehicles remain key customers for us.
And the demands from our Commercial customers continue to offer us opportunity to drive parts additions earlier in the vehicle life cycle which benefits both DIFM and DIY.
Additionally we've been very focused on leveraging the Internet across a variety of fronts.
We've been pleased with our progress on developing our Internet offerings but we are in the very early innings of tapping into these growing customer segments that utilize this venue for ordering their parts and products.
I want to reiterate while our financial performance has been solid we take nothing for granted.
Our commitment to our ongoing planning efforts allows us good visibility into business trends and our team is committed to managing to those trends appropriately.
We've been very deliberate in how we manage expenses and capital in order to deliver consistent strong financial performance while positioning ourselves for long-term growth and we will continue with this strategy well into the future.
We should also highlight another strong performance in return on invested capital as we were able to grow this metric to 32.1% on a trailing 4-quarter basis which represents another new all-time high for our organization.
One of the big drivers to this growth has been the EBIT growth of the Commercial business.
While having a lower EBIT margin as a percent of sales which creates some margin rate pressure the capital requirements to the Commercial model are minimal.
The investments are mainly operating expense related; AutoZoners who develop relationships and sell to our customers and other AutoZoners who execute the orders and deliver products to these important customers.
The ability to leverage our existing assets primarily AutoZoners store locations inventory and information systems across this additional customer base provides us with a terrific opportunity to grow operating profit dollars and drive incremental returns on capital.
It should be reiterated we will always maintain our diligence regarding capital stewardship as the capital we spend is our investors' capital.
Now I'll turn it over to Bill Giles to talk about our financial results for the quarter.
Bill? Thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone.
To start this morning let me take a few moments to talk more specifically about our Retail Commercial and Mexico results for the quarter.
For the quarter Total Auto Parts sales increased 7.4% on top of last year's first quarter's growth of 12.8%.
This segmentation includes our domestic Retail and Commercial businesses and our Mexico stores.
This quarter we again completed merchandise line reviews with a goal of completing at least one review each year on every category.
Regarding macro trends during the first quarter unleaded gas prices started out at $3.67 a gallon and declined steadily finishing the quarter at $3.37 a gallon.
Last year gas prices increased $0.20 per gallon during the first quarter albeit from a substantially lower beginning point starting at $2.68 and ending at $2.88 a gallon.
We're hoping that declining trend continues as a reduction in prices at the pump can materially help our customers’ pocketbooks.
And at the same time with gas prices remaining high there is an opportunity for us to communicate with our customers on steps they can take to improve their gas mileage.
Miles driven remains less of a story to our near-term sales results than in previous years.
Through September 7 of the last 9 months have run negative to the previous year's miles driven.
Year-to-date through September miles driven are now down 1.3%.
Unless trends change this year will mark the first declining year since 2008.
While recently we have seen minimal correlation to our sales performance with miles driven historically it has been one of the key statistics which correlate to our sales results over the long term.
The other is the number of 7-year-old and older vehicles on the road which continues to trend in our industry's favor.
We also recognize that miles driven on cars over 10 years old the current average is much different than on newer cars in terms of wear and tear.
For the trailing 4 quarters Total Auto Parts sales per square foot were $261.
This statistic continues to set the pace for the rest of the industry.
This metric is up 3.7% over last year's first quarter and over 8% since the first quarter of 2010's $241 a square foot.
In fact this is the highest level we have achieved since fiscal 2003.
This impressive improvement is a key contributor to our record EBIT margin percent and our record ROIC.
For the quarter total Commercial sales increased 22.6%.
For the first quarter Commercial represented 14.2% of our total sales and grew $50 million over last year's Q1.
Last year's Commercial sales mix percent was 12.4%.
As we have said previously we have been very pleased with the progress we are making in this business both operationally and financially.
We believe there are ample opportunities for us to continue to improve in many facets of our operations and offerings and therefore we're quite optimistic about the future of this business.
Our sales growth has come from both existing and new customers.
We continue to believe we can grow revenues in existing stores and we will continue to open additional Commercial programs.
This past quarter we opened 74 new programs versus 54 programs in last year's first quarter.
We now have our Commercial program in 2 733 stores supported by 145 hub stores.
With only 60% of our domestic stores having a Commercial program and our average revenue per program materially below several of our competitors we believe there is ample opportunity for additional program growth aside from improved productivity opportunities in current programs.
Our focus this past quarter was to build upon the Commercial initiatives that have been in place for well over a year.
We continue to watch our sales force mature from its inception just 3-plus years ago.
We are also enhancing training and introducing additional technology to optimize the productivity of our sales force.
We have increased our efforts around analyzing customer purchasing trends and in stock trends.
We've had 18 consecutive quarters of sales growth.
We have a model that is successful and scalable and we are continuing to test additional enhancements to our offerings.
In addition to our focus on further developing our sales force we have continued to add significant resources to our Commercial business from additional late-model import and domestic coverage both in satellite and hub stores to additional labor hours and trucks.
In summary we remain committed to building a platform for long-term growth at a deliberate pace growth in both sales and profits.
Our Commercial business remains on track and we're excited about our continuing opportunities.
Our Mexico stores continued to perform well.
We opened 2 new stores during the first quarter and currently have 281 stores in Mexico.
We remain resolute on our strategy to open stores at a steady pace while managing our Mexico business for the long run.
We have operated stores in Mexico for over 12 years and we continue to see great opportunity for growth going forward.
Our returns and profit growth have been in line with our expectations.
Regarding the announcement of future store growth in Brazil there's not much report today as you'd probably expect.
We're targeting to open our first store there late in calendar 2012 and beyond that there's nothing new to mention.
Recapping our first quarter performance for the company in total our sales for the first quarter were $1 924 000 000 an increase of 7.4% from last year's first quarter.
Domestic same-store sales or sales for stores open more than one year were up 4.6% for the quarter.
Gross margin for the quarter was 51.1% of sales up 45 basis points compared to last year's first quarter.
The improvement in gross margin was attributable to lower distribution cost on higher sales lower shrink expense and slightly higher merchandise margins.
Our field and loss prevention teams have undertaken several initiatives over the past few years that have led to improving our shrink results.
While we have benefited the last 4 quarters from lower shrink expense we recognized savings only after we physically counted our stores and distribution centers and there can be no guarantee that this trend will continue although we continue to be pleased with our current results.
In regards to inflation we've seen rising cost in commodity-related products.
Although certain categories have experienced some higher levels of inflation taken as a whole inflation hasn't been a material component of our overall gross margin improvements.
We will remain cognizant of future developments regarding inflation and we'll make the appropriate adjustments should they arise.
Looking forward we continue to believe there remains opportunity for gross margin expansion.
However we do not manage to a target gross profit margin percentage.
We are focused on growing absolute gross profit dollars and gross profit dollars in our Total Auto Parts segment were up 7.4% for the quarter.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 33.4% of sales improving 18 basis points from last year's first quarter.
The decline in operating expenses as a percentage of sales was due to lower incentive compensation favorable legal expense and leverage from higher sales volumes.
Partially offsetting this leverage were higher current year self-insurance costs.
While our operating expense percentage growth increased faster than square footage growth we have purposefully invested these dollars to position the company for future sales and profit growth.
This organization takes great pride in our disciplined approach to managing our cost structure and leveraging our culture of thrift and we remain committed to appropriately managing expenses in line with our overall performance.
We continue to believe we are well positioned to manage our cost structure for the foreseeable future.
Earnings before interest and taxes for the quarter was $341 million up 11.4% over last year's first quarter.
Our EBIT margin improved to 17.7% or 63 basis points versus the previous year's first quarter.
Interest expense for the quarter was $39.1 million compared with $37.3 million in Q1 a year ago a 4.9% increase.
Debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $3 354 000 000 or approximately $475 million more than last year's first quarter balance of $2 879 000 000 but consistent with our most recent quarter ended August 27.
Our adjusted debt level metric finished the quarter at 2.4x EBITDAR.
While in any given quarter we may increase or decrease debt levels based on management's opinion regarding debt and equity market conditions we remain committed to both our investment-grade rating and our capital allocation strategy and share repurchases are an important element of that strategy.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 36.7% up from last year's first quarter of 36%.
We expect to be closer to 37% on an ongoing basis.
Net income for the quarter of $191 million was up 11.1% versus the prior year's first quarter.
Our diluted share count of 40.9 million was down approximately 10% from last year's first quarter.
The combination of these factors drove earnings per share for the quarter to $4.68 up 24% over the prior year's first quarter.
Related to the cash flow statement for the first fiscal quarter of 2011 we generated $342 million of operating cash flow versus last year's Q1 of $357 million.
Net fixed assets were up 5% versus last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $62 million and reflected the additional expenditures required to open 19 new stores this quarter capital expenditures on existing stores and work on the development of new stores for upcoming quarters.
With the new stores open we finished this past quarter with 4 551 stores in 48 states the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico and 281 stores in Mexico for a total store count of 4 832.
Depreciation totaled $48.6 million for the quarter versus last year's first quarter expense of $44.3 million.
With the excess cash flow we purchased $310 million of AutoZone stock in the first quarter.
And at the end of the quarter we had $659 million remaining under our share buyback authorization.
We continue to view our share repurchase program as an attractive capital deployment strategy.
Accounts payable as a percent of gross inventory finished the quarter at 112% versus 107% in last year's first quarter.
Next I'd like to update you on our inventory levels in total and on a per-store basis.
We reported an inventory balance of $2.5 billion up 7% versus the Q1 ending balance last year.
Increased inventory reflects new store growth along with additional investments in coverage for select categories.
Inventory per store was up 3% and in line with our 4.6% same-store sales growth.
Finally as Bill previously mentioned our return -- our continued disciplined capital management approach resulted in return on invested capital for the trailing 4 quarters of 32.1%.
We have and will continue to make investments that we believe will generate returns that significantly exceed our cost of capital.
Now I'll turn it back to Bill Rhodes.
Thank you Bill.
Before we conclude I want to reiterate that our industry's performance has been strong over the last 3 years but I believe our team's commitment to our culture and our customers combined with our initiatives have contributed significantly to our success as evidenced by our sales and share growth in both Retail and Commercial.
We remain committed to continuing to improve our business model and our operations; continual steady refinements.
We believe our business model is healthy and we have material opportunities for further improvements from this point.
In fiscal 2012 we will continue to focus on our key priorities: Great people providing great service; profitably growing the Commercial business; leveraging the Internet; and our hub strategy where we're really focused on relocations and expansions at this point.
After the last 3 very impressive years of performance our first quarter has again started out strong.
As we entered the quarter we had some concerns because we were comparing against our strongest quarter since quarter 2 of fiscal 2003 but with our AutoZoners’ continued intense focus on providing great service and trustworthy advice we were able to deliver these impressive results.
I want to again thank and congratulate our entire organization for their dedication to our customers fellow AutoZoners stockholders and the communities we serve.
Our approach remains consistent.
We're focused on succeeding in the second quarter of 2012 and we are quite optimistic and excited about the remainder of the year.
Now we'd like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from John Lawrence with Morgan Keegan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bill would you comment just a little bit on the Commercial business and dig a little deeper there? When you talk about not only can you see the growth from new stores but the existing.
Would you just walk us through a little bit I mean you had to get the parts coverage over time.
There were some processes in the sales force.
Where do you think you need to go now? What would be the next steps to improve those early Commercial accounts to make that more productive? Sure.
I think a big part of it John is we have made significant improvements in our core execution in the Commercial business.
And I think we’ve got to make sure we continue to get out there and tell our story.
Our territory sales managers are out there today telling our story and they're building deeper and deeper relationships with our customers.
But building those relationships takes time.
But at the end of the day we've been very pleased with the old programs that have been out there and their growth.
We've been very pleased with the programs we've opened over the last couple of years and their growth.
We're also pleased with the programs that we're opening now.
So across-the-board we continue to be pretty bullish on it and you can see that based on the fact that we're opening more and more programs over time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And second question just on line reviews when you look at your comments on widening the ages of those parts.
Does this mean -- I know you've always been very disciplined on those line reviews.
But does it change any processes as those ages get wider? No I don't think it changes the processes.
Our team has really developed a very sophisticated inventory selection model on a per-store basis for hard parts.
But as we continue to see the age of vehicles that bell curve widen it's just giving us more and more opportunities to put more products in the stores.
And we have challenges with that; obviously the financial challenges of additional inventory but also space challenges.
And so that's where this hub strategy is really so critical to our current success and really even more critical to the future success.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And last question can you comment on the size of Duralast at this point? Basically we only say that our Duralast program continues to be strong.
We don't actually quantify exactly what the overall percentage of penetration is.
As you recall we've talked about it over the last 4 quarters.
As we've increased our Duralast penetration it's been a bit of a benefit for our gross margin.
And we continue to find opportunities in certain categories for us to continue to expand that.
So we're very bullish on Duralast and its opportunities for continued expansion.
Our next question is from Ivan Holman with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> This is Ivan in for Kate.
First question maybe this is for Bill.
Focusing on store economics on a per-store basis your Commercial sales are still running below competitors.
Can you provide some type of timeline of when you think you can bridge that delta? And whether or not growing the Commercial programs will cannibalize the DIY side of the house? Well I'll go backwards.
We certainly don't believe that growing the Commercial programs will cannibalize the DIY side of the house.
In fact one of the things that we have found is that we continue to expand our assortment and our coverage continue to expand inventory coverage in our hub stores with a focus on improving our Commercial business and have actually found as a byproduct that that has actually helped our DIY business.
So actually just the opposite we find the businesses to be relatively complementary from an ability for us to add inventory into the marketplace and frankly more labor into the stores servicing both of those important customers.
But from a productivity perspective as you've seen we've had great growth from our Commercial programs being up over 20% overall growth and that's coming from both new programs that we've added.
We've added almost 10% program growth in the last fiscal year and continue to feel very confident about our ability to continue to expand more programs.
But we're getting good growth out of the existing stores and I think Bill highlighted a couple other important points that when you think about the building blocks that we've put in place between the sales force territory sales managers the inventory coverage some of the technology enhancements that we've made to the programs we think that we've got a very good foundation to continue to improve the productivity of our existing stores.
So we recognize there's a gap but we're really excited about our ability to continue to close that gap and improve the productivity.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just a quick follow-up the comp accelerated materially on a 2-year stat.
Do you believe the current pace of improvement is sustainable? As we think of the cadence of sales for the year ahead 2Q is typically the smallest quarter of the year.
Do you anticipate more seasonality given the backdrop of a still constrained consumer? Yes we definitely believe that there's seasonality in Q2 and one of the things that we've always been very consistent about indicating is that Q2 always is one of the more choppier quarters.
We've got a fair amount of holiday time during there so -- and it's certainly the lowest volume quarter.
So we just take it one quarter at a time and we feel encouraged about our initiatives but we recognize that the consumer continues to be under a lot of economic pressure.
Our next question is from Sam Reid with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> This is Sam Reid filling in for Alan Rifkin.
One of your competitors discussed regional variations on the DIY side.
I was wondering if you all had any comments on that maybe if you're seeing any variations yourself.
Yes.
I mean obviously when you're a national operator like us we have certain areas over time that are areas of strength and other areas that are more challenged.
I think you're referring to some folks calling out that the Southeast has been a little bit more difficult and that's accurate.
We're seeing the same but it's still a very healthy market.
One of the things when you think about why it could be more difficult it's the most competitive area in the country and it's also where a tremendous amount of new store openings are focused.
So we don't think it's anything that drastic.
We continue to be pleased with our performance there and hope to improve it over time.
Our big thing is as a national operator weather effects and economic indicators are going to go region to region over time.
We believe our game plan is the right game plan and we just need to execute it.
Our next question is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
It's Aziz in for Dan.
Two quick questions.
First can you give us a breakdown of your mix on failure/maintenance and discretionary merchandise? Yes.
We talked about it a little bit in the prepared comments.
Failure was roughly 45%.
What was that relative to last year on failure? Not significantly different.
We really didn't see much change during this quarter between those 3 categories.
Okay.
And then maintenance versus discretionary? Maintenance is about 40%.
Great.
And then sort of like a long-term question that we've been curious about.
If you look at vehicle demographics SARs are running about I think $13 million to $13.5 million a year.
A little below scrappage.
It's been like that on and off for the last couple years.
It's good for the age of cars right now but you're actually seeing fewer cars on the road.
Is there any worry that new car sales being so slow will impact future sales? I mean is that a long-term negative? How -- what are you guys doing? Are you guys thinking about -- how are you guys thinking about that? I think the first thing you think about when you get about 250 million vehicles on the road the difference in one-year sales of $13 million or $14 million isn't going to make a big difference.
And we have not seen a declining overall vehicle population at this rate.
We do have some concerns of miles driven being down.
This will now be the second -- likely the second year over the course of the last few years where miles driven has been down.
And fewer miles over the long term is going to be less maintenance and less failure.
It's less wear and tear on the vehicle so that has us mildly concerned let me characterize it that way.
Our next question is from Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Patrick Palfrey sitting in for Scot today.
I just had a couple questions on margins if I may.
You called out higher self-insurance revenue -- I'm sorry higher self-insurance costs as a contributor to higher expense in the past couple quarters.
I was just sort of curious as what is driving the higher self-insurance expense? On that one we're seeing a bit of an increase in health medical.
And so we've seen some increase just over this most recent quarter on health medical.
So we continue to evaluate it and take steps to be able to curtail that to the extent that we can but there's been some pressure on that.
And then maybe a little bit of pressure on casualty but not as significant.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess within gross margins you also called out lower distribution expense on higher sales.
I guess is the improvement directly attributable to the sales leverage or were you able to be more efficient in terms of the delivery of your product? I think it's a combination of both.
I think our supply chain distribution people have really done a very good job of being able to operate a very efficient organization and we always find some opportunities to be even a little bit more efficient.
But it's a combination of some of the efficiencies that they've put in place as well as just leveraging off of the sales volume.
Our next question is from Michael Montani with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> This is Mike on for Greg Miller.
I just had a question first on SG&amp;A dollar growth up about 6.8% this quarter last year obviously up closer to 10%.
If you think about moving forward trying to do more work on Commercial how should we think about that? Assuming comps are similar to where they are today is 6% sustainable or does that perhaps increase a bit as we look to gain market share in Commercial? Yes I think that there's going to be some continued investments in Commercial as we continue to roll out new programs.
If you recall over probably the last 4 quarters we've made investments in Commercial.
We've also made some investments in our hub programs as well.
So we think that the rate of growth will probably moderate relative to last year a little bit.
But we're going to continue to invest back into the business to position ourselves for growth into the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a follow-up on the CapEx side.
Is $320 million still roughly the right run rate or is there any material changes to that? Again given the acceleration we're seeing in Commercial.
It probably will be a little bit higher than that not so much on the Commercial but also on expansion of hubs et cetera.
So I think it'll be a little bit greater than that.
But again most of our capital is devoted to new stores and then obviously maintenance on existing stores.
And then there's some dollars put aside for other expansion as well.
Research Division</strong> Is maintenance still about 1/3 of that or how should we break that out? It's not about way to think about it.
It's probably about that.
Our next question is from Chris Horvers with JPMC.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Mark Becks on for Chris.
First question I have is the acceleration of comps when looking at both sides of the business.
Can you speak to where this is coming from? I know you highlighted in your prepared remarks that you're seeing customers trade up to higher price points.
Yes.
Over time we're -- really what we're saying there is a lot of people anticipated that in this economic cycle we would see people trading down.
And really what we're saying is we're not seeing them trade down.
When you talk about the overall increase in average ticket there's several things that are driving it.
Number one our teams are doing a great job in the field of sharing the value propositions with the customers and in many cases selling them up for the better or best products.
Another thing that's going on underlying there is there's been some pretty significant increases in commodity prices over the last 12 months.
And that's reflected in the retail prices of those products.
The third thing and we talked about it a little bit on the last quarter is there's a technological enhancement that happen in this industry as parts and products are becoming more sophisticated and more complex.
There's an underlying trend in the increase of those products they also last a little bit longer which puts some pressure on traffic count on that we've seen over the last -- more than the last decade.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then Commercial just trying to get a better grasp of the opportunity there.
Can you speak to what volumes you're seeing in some of your more mature programs versus what you're seeing in the newer immature programs there? I think we see some stores with some very significant volumes.
I really don't want to put out numbers from a competitive point of view.
But we have a significant amount -- number of stores that are performing exceptionally well and we're very pleased with those.
I think the thing that we're more excited about is the newer programs that we're developing are continuing to ramp up faster than they have on a historical basis.
And as that continues to happen it gives us more confidence it makes us more aggressive about opening more programs sooner rather than later.
Research Division</strong> And then last question here.
On the hubs originally I think you spoke to relocating or expanding 40.
It looks like this number is creeping up a little bit.
I guess is this indicative of results being stronger than you anticipated or maybe what may have changed? Yes I would say a combination of both.
I think we're very encouraged with the performance that we've got out of the expansions that we've done up of this point.
We've got about 145 hubs and we've always felt as though probably 2/3 of those required some level of expansion and we recognize that it would take a few years to be able to accomplish that.
So we would continue to expect to expand more hubs into the future.
Our next question is from Tony Cristello with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question I have is when you look at the Commercial rollout of the programs from a geographic standpoint I believe you started that more focused on the hubs on the West Coast if I'm not mistaken.
Can you if you look at now the 60% coverage and now the 60% program coverage that you have in Commercial on a geographic basis would you feel that it's now evenly dispersed? Or are you more concentrated in one region than the other and so the next wave or so of relocations and/or openings would be concentrated to one particular market? Yes.
I would say on the hubs that it is not geographically based at this point in time.
Yes we did have a slight slant when we started that program the acceleration of the super hub program.
We had some focus on the West Coast first.
But at this point in time I think it's more based upon the individual store locations that we have and do we have the right real estate there.
On the Commercial programs I think it too -- it does vary frankly fairly significantly from region to region.
But there's a lot of individual factors that are going to drive that and it's not really geographic.
It's more where did we have the right footprint? Where were we closest to the significant Commercial business? And frankly where did we have the leaders that were the more aggressive in those areas as well.
Research Division</strong> So do you think that what you've accomplished to date and sort of the strategy you've been using have you gone after the easiest sort of opportunity and sort of going from the 60% to 65% or 70% will be that much harder? Or have what you learned through the process made your ability to go in and target a bit more easier and more efficient in how you roll them out? Yes it's a great question and I think it's a little bit of both.
Clearly we have opened the programs where they had the highest potential to do business.
But the thing that's been interesting is and I hit on it just a minute ago although we're opening in the lower potential areas they all still have significant potential and as we're opening in these lower areas we're actually outperforming and ramping up faster than we did over the last couple of years.
I think that's due in part because our program continues to be refined.
We continue to gain share in the marketplace gain share of voice our sales team continues to improve.
And so we believe yes it'll be comparatively more difficult to go from 60% to 65% to 70%.
But we have a lot of confidence that we're going to be able to continue to make those increases.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just one last question.
When you look at your answer to one of the prior questions that was asked pertaining to the Southeast you noted there have been more store openings in that region that could have potentially impacted sales.
And then I guess from a bigger picture at some point does the store opening growth from you and some of the larger peers at some point become counterproductive? And are there any areas outside of the south -- and I don't want to take out of context what you said so maybe I'll let you answer that first.
But you can kind of see where I'm trying to ask the question.
Yes.
I mean I think there's a lot of areas where all the major players are there.
And frankly look at everybody's results and everybody seems to do pretty well.
So I think this business we strive -- we don't have any areas where we're challenged significantly.
Do we take a hit when somebody comes in? Absolutely then we try to work ourselves out of it.
But we're not running 32% return on invested capital because we're struggling in a bunch of markets.
Research Division</strong> Well and I guess what I wanted to more get at is does there ever become a situation where there's too much or there's a market saturation in a particular region or are you so far away from that with fragmentation that it's not even an issue at this point? I'd just say I haven't seen a market yet that was so saturated that we were challenged economically.
Our next question is from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Ryan Brinkman for Matt Fassler.
You discussed this to some extent already but can you elaborate any further upon the expected ramp in the number of Commercial programs which obviously remains very rapid.
How should we think about the cadence going forward? And is the F 1Q rate sustainable? Here's the way we're looking at it.
We have more and more aggressive plans that we're laying out.
We certainly laid out more aggressive plans for the balance of this year than we had when we started this year but we're going to pace them based upon how we continue to perform.
We have gates along the way.
You've heard us talk about it before a pay-as-you-go mentality where we're going to open a cluster of stores and as long as they're tracking on path then we'll go ahead and open the next ones.
If for some reason whatever the reason is we get off of that projected path then we're going to slow down we're going to go back and put intense focus on the stores that aren't performing to our expectations leverage our focus there.
And then once we get them going again we'll come back in with the next batch.
So we don’t want to lay out here's what the number is because that's not the way we're going to run it.
We opened 235 net new stores last year.
I certainly hope we do more than that this year.
But we'll have to see.
We're going to make sure that we perform to our expectations.
Research Division</strong> And then I'm curious as to the increase in self-insurance costs.
Do you regard that as a largely one-time item? Say the truing up reserve based upon estimates or might you need to recognize higher costs on a go-forward basis? Well we would expect that there's a little bit of a trend line there on some of them but we can't really know that for sure.
So it certainly was a little bit of pressure for Q1 and we would anticipate it to be a little bit of pressure going forward but probably not to that extent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last question is there anything that you're able to surmise thus far about sales trends in the current quarter? It's so early it's very difficult to add any color on it.
I mean we're just a week or 2 into the quarter.
And the other important point to mention is is that it is our lowest volume quarter so it has a lot of seasonality to it.
So we'll see how the quarter shakes out.
And like everybody else the holiday sales aren't very important to us.
Our next question is from Craig Kennison with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on the hub conversation that's been had so far.
Is there a point at which your Commercial business outgrows that hub infrastructure and might require more of a warehouse infrastructure like some of your peers? Yes.
I think the answer is over the long term we don't believe that at all.
But it actually has outgrown our infrastructure today and that's why we're going through this expansion and relocation strategy.
And we originally put these hubs in based upon where we have excess space.
And so some of them might be 10 000 or 12 000 feet and we crammed things in there.
It has become such a strong and robust resource for us that we're having to move or relocate or expand about 75% of them over a long period of time.
But we do think that the hub strategy versus the warehouse strategy is the right strategy for us.
We don't see any change in our long-term view on how we're going to distribute products.
Our supply chain team does a great job and we think putting the additional coverage in the market for that day so that you can service a customer 3x a day is much more important than having it come overnight.
Thank you.
And this does conclude the question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Rhodes for any closing comments.
Okay.
Before we conclude the call I'd like to take a moment to reiterate that our business model remains very solid.
We remain excited about our growth prospects for the year.
We can't take anything for granted.
As we understand our customers have alternatives.
Our culture remains our key point of differentiation from our competition and we must not lose sight of the importance of basic store execution in order to remain very successful.
We have a solid plan for 2012 and our team is well positioned to succeed.
But I want to stress this is a marathon and not a sprint.
As we will continue to focus on the basics and never take our eye off optimizing long-term shareholder value we are confident AutoZone will continue to be incredibly successful.
Lastly I'd like to wish everyone a very happy and healthy holiday season and a prosperous new year.
We thank you for participating in today's call.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the AutoZone conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
This conference call will discuss AutoZone's second quarter financial results.
Bill Rhodes the company's Chairman President and CEO will be making a short presentation on the highlights of the quarter.
This conference call will end promptly at 10 a.m.
Central Time 11 a.m.
Eastern Time.
Before Mr.
Rhodes begins the company has requested that you listen to the following statements regarding forward-looking statements.
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use words such as believe anticipate should intend plan will expect estimate project positioned strategy and similar expressions.
These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends current conditions expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including without limitation: credit market conditions; the impact of recessionary conditions; competition; product demand; the ability to hire and retain qualified employees; consumer debt levels; inflation; weather; raw material costs of our suppliers; energy prices; war and the prospect of war including terrorist activity; availability of consumer transportation; construction delays; access to available and feasible financing; and changes in laws or regulations.
Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 27 2011 and these risk factors should be read carefully.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone's Fiscal 2012 Second Quarter Conference Call.
With me today are Bill Giles Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer Store Development and IT; and Brian Campbell Vice President Treasurer Investor Relations and Tax.
Regarding the second quarter I hope you had an opportunity to read our press release and learn about the quarter's results.
If not the press release along with slides complementing our comments today is available on our website www.autozoneinc.com.
Please click on Quarterly Earnings Conference Calls to see them.
We are pleased to announce another quarter of strong financial and operational performance.
For the second fiscal quarter our earnings per share increased 24.4% and our domestic same-store sales increased 5.9%.
This marks the 13th consecutive quarter of EPS growth in excess of 20% and the 22nd consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth.
Our sales and operating profit growth rates were in line with the last couple of quarters driven by our continued growth in the retail sales category strong performance in our Commercial business and impressive growth in our Mexico ALLDATA and E-Commerce businesses.
Over the course of the last few years we've grown total sales in the auto parts segment in the high single-digit range while growing our other businesses in the low double-digit range.
The credit for our stability and performance belongs to all AutoZoners across the organization.
Their focus on improving customer service is what differentiates us in the eyes of our customers which ultimately leads to our strong financial performance.
Our strategies have remained very consistent for many years.
While relatively simple and straightforward they are focused on the areas that are very important to our customers.
The foundation for these strategies is consistently delivering trustworthy advice an intense focus on consistent execution and ongoing refinements to our processes and product offerings.
We remain committed to this approach and believe our AutoZoners' execution of this well-defined well-communicated plan has been a critical element in our success.
With our second quarter sales up 8.6% over last year's quarter customers continue to shop with us to find good values in order to effectively maintain repair and enhance their vehicles.
Our retail business performed well again this quarter despite strong same-store sales growth last year.
Our domestic Commercial sales growth exceeded 20% for the seventh straight quarter and we grew our other business made up of ALLDATA and E-Commerce by 11.3%.
In an effort to address questions that maybe on some listeners' minds this morning I thought I'd spend a moment discussing trend changes we have seen and their potential impact on current or future sales.
First as I'm sure you all are aware weather patterns during the second quarter which as a reminder for us was from November 20 to February 11 were quite unusual with lower levels of frozen precipitation and generally milder temperatures.
As we mentioned on our last earnings call we are always very cautious about the second quarter when it comes to sales and profitability.
It is the seasonally lowest point for average weekly sales which magnifies the profitability impact to sales changes and our sales performance can be quite volatile due to weather patterns holiday calendar shifts and pressures on consumer spending.
The calendar shift where Christmas and New Year's were on Saturday of last year and Sunday this year were a small benefit to our performance.
The changes in our sales trends due to the weather are more difficult to summarize because they vary by category.
Clearly we suffered from lack of extreme weather in certain hard part categories where parts failed due to cold conditions.
And we also lost sales in some other categories that spike when severe weather is experienced.
However we benefited from the milder weather in categories where the weather was more conducive to our customers working on their vehicles.
The net result is our failure-related categories grew slower than they have in recent quarters while our maintenance and discretionary categories expanded more rapidly than our recent past.
Overall the data available to us shows weather having a net positive effect on our same-store sales.
Also the shift in sales to more maintenance and discretionary categories had a positive impact on transaction count and a net negative impact on merchandise margins.
The merchandise we category as maintenance and discretionary carry lower tickets on average than failure merchandise but represent a higher proportion of our transactions.
While transactions were still a headwind to the retail business this past quarter they sequentially improved versus our first quarter.
While we experienced some improvement in transaction trends this quarter our message on the DIY transaction front this morning remains consistent.
We expect over the long term transactions to continue to remain under pressure as technological advancements result in longer-lasting better-performing parts and products typically with higher retails.
Concurrently we anticipate that the average price per piece will continue to experience gains.
Again this is not a new phenomenon and is something we have managed through for well over a decade.
The bottom line is we remain optimistic about the trajectory of the retail industry and we have a high degree of confidence in our ability to continue to lead in this sector.
Second we want to address new car sales and the potential impact in increasing seasonally adjusted annual rate of vehicle sales has on both our DIY and DIFM businesses.
It is not in our opinion a material driver to either sector like gas prices and miles driven.
And over the long term we need new cars as today's new cars are tomorrow's our kind of vehicles.
We do expect new car sales to increase from the depressed levels we have seen in recent years.
However with over 240 million vehicles on the road and the average age at 10.6 years the number of annual new car sales doesn't impact the overall vehicle mix materially.
And new car sales can't be considered an isolation.
Scrappage rates also an important element and they've generally been in the 5% range or 12 million vehicles a year basically offsetting the new vehicles added.
This impact has caused the number of total vehicles to remain at approximately 240 million vehicles for the last 4 years.
Our hope is absolute vehicles on the road going forward increases.
We want to reiterate we believe that over the long term miles driven and average age of vehicles are the most important metrics for our industry's future sales performance.
Now let me review our operating theme for 2012: 1Team Driving our Future.
The key priorities for the year are: one Great People Providing Great Service!; two profitably growing our Commercial business; three leveraging the Internet; and four hub store improvements.
On the retail front this past quarter under the Great People Providing Great Service! theme we continued with our theme of intense focus on improving execution.
We continue to invest in training our store AutoZoners.
We are also keenly focused on hiring and retaining the best parts professionals in the business and we have been pleased with our progress in this area.
Recently we implemented further enhancements to our parts catalog and sales tool Z-net.
Additionally we are in the final stages of developing a new labor management system to replace a 2 decades old system.
This new system will further assist us in managing our business as one team leveraging our resources across both DIY and DIFM while providing the best service to all customers regardless of how they interact with us.
We're also working on new planogramming efforts to improve and customize our sales core presentations to the demographics of the local market.
Lastly our efforts around expanding the utilization of our hub stores remains a major focus.
Our ability to add coverage while growing inventory per store in a working capital-friendly way is at the top of our priority list.
We continue to be very pleased with the results of this initiative and our efforts to ensure we have the right-sized hubs in the right locations is also progressing well.
On the Commercial front we are executing our plan to continually open new programs opening 92 new programs during the second quarter.
We also focused diligently on growing our business with existing customers and we are quite pleased with our progress.
We now have Commercial in 2 825 stores or 62% of our domestic store base.
We will discuss our operating performance in more detail later in the call.
However our results with our most recent new store openings combined with the success of our older programs has instilled greater confidence in our plans and encourages us to be aggressive in adding additional resources and new programs to this important growth initiative.
Regarding our second quarter sales.
Our total auto parts segment made up of both our domestic and Mexico businesses delivered an 8.6% increase.
Our other businesses made up of ALLDATA and E-Commerce were up 11.3%.
During the quarter we continued to open new stores both in the United States and Mexico 29 new stores in the U.S.
and 6 in Mexico and expect to grow square footage for the year at an annual combined growth rate of approximately 4%.
We also continued our hub store expansion and relocation efforts this past quarter.
With a total of 146 hubs we expanded our hub count this past quarter by 1.
We also expanded 5 locations adding a material amount of square footage.
We did not relocate any hubs in the quarter.
Since we've begun our efforts on redefining our hub network and square footage needs we've modified to some degree 34 hubs.
When we say modify we mean either expand or relocate existing hubs.
As we continue to see traction from utilizing and expanding the reach of our hub network by expanding sales from new hub store SKU additions plus related parts sales we see the potential to modify in some way up to as many as 70 of the remaining hubs over the next few years.
While we spend a lot of time highlighting our hub strategy this strategy is very important currently but arguably even more important over the long term.
As parts proliferation continues to expand and vehicle parts technology advancement occur in many cases it lowers -- lower unit sales per SKU.
In order to effectively combat this trend it is imperative that we have the local market availability to service our customers on a just-in-time basis in a financially prudent manner.
Our hub strategy allows us to accomplish this objective by aggregating demand on a cluster of satellite stores.
In some cases combining this demand gives us the opportunity to add new local market coverage.
And in other cases it allows us to move products that are stocked in many of the satellite stores to the hub stores improving the productivity of our inventory.
Local market inventory coverage is an imperative in this business for both our professional and retail customers and our hub strategy has allowed us to expand local market coverage in a cost-effective manner.
Additionally we continue to refine our product assortments in the satellite stores specifically focused on late-model coverage.
As our Commercial performance has improved the overall sales productivity of our average store continues to increase increasing approximately 4% over the prior year allowing us the opportunity to efficiently expand our inventory assortments.
I'll take a moment now to talk more specifically about our second quarter performance in a little more detail.
As I mentioned our domestic same-store sales grew 5.9% for the quarter.
Our second quarter which ended February 11 did experience variability in sales results from week-to-week which we attribute primarily to the weather.
It is difficult to determine the net impact the weather had on our business for the quarter.
As mentioned previously on one hand it clearly negatively impacted our cold-weather categories but on the other hand the mild weather benefited some of our maintenance and discretionary categories.
Overall we believe it was a net positive.
Our increased emphasis on the Commercial business again resulted in quite impressive results.
Our second quarter Commercial sales growth of 24.6% represents our seventh straight quarter of 20% sales growth.
While we are pleased with our Commercial rate of growth we recognize that we currently have a small market share and this remains a tremendous opportunity for us both in terms of growing the number of programs that we currently have as well as improving the productivity of our existing programs.
Therefore we have and plan to continue to invest in this business in order to grow sales and further capture profitable market share.
As we accelerate our investments to grow Commercial and as Commercial becomes a larger portion of our overall business we anticipate our gross margin and operating expense rates will be challenged as Commercial is currently a lower-margin business.
However as we have stated in the past we are focused on growing operating profit dollars at strong levels of returns on the capital we deploy.
It is important to highlight that while Commercial is dilutive to our overall margins the Commercial business operating margin continues to improve despite heavy investments.
And the expectation is that over time that will continue to do so.
I'd also like to recognize our other businesses ALLDATA and E-Commerce for having another fine quarter of 11.3% in sales from this time last year.
This section of our business while small as a percentage of our overall sales mix continues to experience faster sales growth in the auto parts stores.
And that's quite an accomplishment considering we remain pleased with our stores' performance.
Additionally we've been very focused on leveraging the Internet across a variety of fronts.
Our efforts are concentrated on providing our retail customers with access to store product and repair information to help them research or complete the purchase online an important extension of the trustworthy advice we provide in our stores.
On the Commercial side we are providing our professional customers with tools to streamline their interactions with us making us easier to do business with.
Also over the last several months we've begun to engage in social media providing additional avenues for our customers to interact with us.
We've been pleased with our progress on developing our Internet offerings but we are in the very early innings of tapping into these growing customer segments that utilize this venue for researching or ordering their parts and products.
We should also highlight another strong performance in return on invested capital as we were able to grow this metric to 32.2% on a trailing 4-quarter basis which represents another new all-time high for our organization.
One of the big drivers of this growth has been the EBIT growth of the Commercial business.
While having a lower EBIT margin as a percent of sales which creates some margin rate pressure the capital requirements of our Commercial model are minimal.
The investments are mainly operating expense-related AutoZoners who develop relationships and sell to our customers and other AutoZoners who execute the orders and deliver products to these important customers.
The ability to leverage our existing assets primarily AutoZoners store locations inventory and information systems across this additional customer base provides us with a terrific opportunity to grow operating profit dollars and drive incremental returns on capital.
It is important to reinforce that we will always maintain our diligence regarding capital stewardship as the capital we spend is our investors' capital.
Our financial performance has been impressive for the last few years.
But I want to reiterate that we take nothing for granted.
Our commitment to our ongoing planning efforts allows us good visibility into business trends and our team is committed to managing to those trends appropriately.
We've been very deliberate in how we manage expenses and capital in order to deliver consistent strong financial performance while positioning our business for long-term growth and we will continue with this strategy well into the future.
Now I'll turn it over to Bill Giles to talk about our financial results for the quarter.
Bill? Thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone.
To start this morning let me take a few moments to talk more specifically about our retail Commercial and Mexico results.
For the quarter total auto parts sales increased 8.6% on top of last year's second quarter's growth of 10.3%.
This segmentation includes our domestic retail and Commercial businesses and our Mexico stores.
Regarding macro trends during the second quarter unleaded gas prices started out at $3.37 a gallon and inched up finishing the quarter at $3.52 a gallon.
Last year gas prices increased $0.26 per gallon during the second quarter starting at $2.88 and ending at $3.14 a gallon.
We're always hoping for declining gas prices as the reduction in prices at the pump can materially help our customers' pocket books.
At the same time with gas prices remaining high we continue to communicate through our marketing messages to our customers the steps they can take to improve their gas mileage.
Miles driven remains a headwind to our sales potential for 2011 calendar year.
Only the months of January February and December showed upticks in driving.
Previous to December the last 9 months were negative versus the previous year's miles driven.
For the calendar year 2011 miles driven were down 1.2%.
That marked the first decline in years since 2008.
The other statistic we highlight is the number of 7 year olds and older vehicles on the road which continues to trend in our industry's favor.
We also recognize that the impact of miles driven on cars over 10 years old the current average is much different than on newer cars in terms of wear and tear.
For the trailing 4 quarters total auto parts sales per square foot were $263.
This statistic continues to set the pace for the rest of the industry and this metric is up 3.5% over last year's second quarter.
This is the highest level we have achieved since fiscal 2003.
This impressive improvement is a key contributor to our record EBIT margin percent and our record ROIC.
For the quarter total Commercial sales increased 24.6%.
For the second quarter Commercial represented 14.8% of our total sales and grew $53 million over last year's Q2.
Last year's Commercial sales mix percent was 12.9%.
As we have said previously we have been very pleased with the progress we are making in this business both operationally and financially.
We believe there are ample opportunities for us to continue to improve many facets of our operations and offerings and therefore we are quite optimistic about the future of this business.
Our sales growth has come from both existing and new customers.
We continue to believe we can grow revenues in existing stores and we will continue to open additional Commercial programs.
This past quarter we opened 92 new programs versus 74 programs last quarter and 43 programs during Q2 of last year.
We expanded the number of stores for the Commercial program by 3.4% during this quarter and 12.1% over last year's second quarter ended.
We now have our Commercial program in 2 825 stores supported by 146 hub stores.
With only 62% of our domestic stores having a Commercial program and our average revenue per program materially below several of our competitors we believe there's ample opportunity for additional program growth aside from improved productivity opportunities in current programs.
Our focus this past quarter was to build upon the Commercial initiatives that have been in place for the past -- for the last few years.
We continue to watch our sales force mature from its inception 3-plus years ago.
We are also enhancing training and introducing additional technology to optimize the productivity of our sales force.
We have increased our efforts around analyzing customer purchasing trends and in-stock trends.
We've had 19 consecutive quarters of sales growth.
We have a model that is successful and scalable and we are continuing to test additional enhancements through our offerings.
In addition to our focus on further developing and expanding our sales force we have continued to add significant resources to our Commercial business from additional late-model imports and domestic coverage both in satellites and hub stores to additional labor hours and trucks.
In summary we remain committed to building a platform for long-term growth at a deliberate pace growth in both sales and profits.
Our Commercial business remains on track and we're excited about our continuing opportunities.
Our Mexico stores continued to perform well.
We opened 6 new stores during the second quarter and 8 stores since the beginning of fiscal 2012.
We currently have 287 stores in Mexico.
We remain resolute on our strategy to open stores at a steady pace while managing our Mexico business for the long run.
We have operated stores in Mexico for over 13 years and we continue to see great opportunity for growth going forward.
Our returns and profit growth have been in line with our expectations.
Our efforts to open new stores in Brazil is progressing and we expect to open our first store in the second half of calendar 2012.
We're also in the process of expanding ALLDATA to Europe.
Both of these initiatives are in the early stages and will be implemented in a measured fashion.
Neither should have a significant impact on our financial results over the mid-term planning horizon.
Recapping our second quarter performance for the company in total our sales for the quarter were $1 804 000 000 an increase of 8.6% from last year's second quarter.
Domestic same-store sales or sales for stores open for more than 1 year were up 5.9% for the quarter.
Gross margin for the quarter was 51.3% of sales up 43 basis points compared to last year's second quarter.
The improvement in gross margin was primarily attributable to lower shrink expense.
Our field and loss prevention teams have undertaken several initiatives over the past few years that have led to improving our shrink results.
While we have benefited the last 5 quarters from lower shrink expense we recognized savings only after we've physically counted our stores and distribution centers and there can be no guarantee that this trend will continue although we are pleased with our most recent results.
In regards to inflation we have seen rising costs in commodity-related products although certain categories have experienced some higher levels of inflation.
Taken as a whole inflation hasn't been a material component of our overall sales or gross margin improvements.
We will remain cognizant of future developments regarding inflation and we'll make the appropriate adjustments should they arise.
Looking forward we continue to believe there remains opportunity for gross margin expansion.
However we do not manage to a targeted gross profit margin percentage.
We are focused on growing absolute gross profit dollars and gross profit dollars in our total auto parts segment were up 9.5% for the quarter.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 34.7% of sales deleveraging by 13 basis points from last year's second quarter.
The primary contributor to the increase in operating expenses as a percentage of sales was higher self-insurance costs partially offset by leverage of other operating expenses due to higher sales volumes.
This marks the second quarter where self-insurance was a headwind for us.
Exposure we're seeing in this area made up of medical workers' compensation auto and general liabilities has grown significantly higher.
We've implemented initiatives to manage this exposure more effectively on a go-forward basis and with this additional focus expect this to be less of a pressure point going forward.
While our operating expense percentage growth increased faster than square footage growth we have purposefully invested these dollars in our strategic retail and Commercial business initiatives to position the company for future sales and profit growth.
This organization takes great pride in our disciplined approach to managing our cost structure and leveraging our culture of thrift and we remain committed to appropriately managing expenses in line with our overall performance.
We continue to believe we are well positioned to manage our cost structure for the foreseeable future.
EBIT or earnings before interest and taxes for the quarter was $301 million up 10.6% over last year's second quarter.
Our EBIT margin improved to 16.7% or 30 basis points versus the previous year's second quarter.
Interest expense for the quarter was $38.9 million compared with $39.6 million in Q2 a year ago essentially flat.
Debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $3 464 000 000 or approximately $215 million more than last year's second quarter balance of $3 249 000 000.
Our adjusted debt level metric finished the quarter at 2.43x EBITDAR.
While in any given quarter we may increase or decrease debt levels based on management's opinion regarding debt and equity market conditions we remain committed to both our investment-grade rating and our capital allocation strategy.
And share repurchases are an important element of that strategy.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 36.2% flat with last year's second quarter of 36.2%.
We expect to be closer to 37% on an ongoing basis.
Net income for the quarter of $167 million was up 12.7% versus the prior year's second quarter.
Our diluted share count of $40.2 million -- or 40.2 million shares was down approximately 9% from last year's second quarter.
The combination of these factors drove earnings per share for the quarter to $4.15 up 24.4% over the prior year's second quarter.
Relating to the cash flow statement for the second fiscal quarter of 2012 we generated $119 million of operating cash flow.
Net fixed assets were up 7% versus last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $71 million and reflected the additional expenditures required to open 39 new stores this quarter capital expenditures on existing stores and work on development of new stores for upcoming quarters.
With the new stores opened we finished this past quarter with 4 580 in 48 states the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico and 287 in Mexico for a total store count of 4 867.
Depreciation totaled $47.5 million for the quarter versus last year's second quarter expense of $44.1 million.
With our excess cash flow we repurchased $173 million of AutoZone stock in the second quarter.
And at the end of the quarter we had $486 million remaining under our share buyback authorization.
We continue to view our share repurchase program as an attractive capital deployment strategy.
Accounts payable as a percent of gross inventory finished the quarter at 110% versus 104% in last year's second quarter.
Next I'd like to update you on our inventory levels in total and on a per-store basis.
We reported an inventory balance of $2.6 billion up 6.6% versus the Q2 ending balance last year.
Increased inventory reflects new store growth along with additional investments in coverage for select categories.
Inventory per store was up 2.3% and well below our 5.9% domestic same-store sales growth.
Finally as Bill previously mentioned our continued disciplined capital management approach resulted in return on invested capital for the trailing 4 quarters of 32.2%.
We have and will continue to make investments that we believe will generate returns that significantly exceed our cost of capital.
Now I'll turn it back to Bill Rhodes.
Thanks Bill.
Before we conclude the call I want to reiterate our team's commitment to our culture and our customers.
Although our industry's performance continues to be strong we believe our efforts have contributed significantly to our success as evidenced by our sales and market share growth in both retail and Commercial.
We remain committed to continuing to improve our business model and our operations continual steady refinement.
We believe our business model is healthy and we have material opportunities for further improvements from this point.
For the remainder of fiscal 2012 we will continue to focus on our key priorities: one Great People Providing Great Service!; two profitably grow Commercial; three leverage the Internet; four our hub strategy.
The financial results for the first half of fiscal 2012 have again been strong.
On the first quarter earnings conference call we cautioned listeners on the uncertainties of the second quarter the winter weather and the effects the Christmas selling season would have on our customer's wallets.
But with our AutoZoners' continued intense focus on providing great service and trustworthy advice we were able to deliver these impressive results.
I want to again thank and congratulate our entire organization for their dedication to our customers fellow AutoZoners stockholders and communities.
Our approach remains consistent.
We're focused on succeeding in the third quarter of 2012 and we are optimistic and excited about the remainder of the year.
Before we move to the question-and-answer period I'd like to take this opportunity to recognize and say goodbye to one of our great leaders.
Next month Tim Briggs Senior Vice President of Human Resources will be retiring after 10 great years of service to AutoZone.
During his tenure he has provided great stewardship over our human resources function and has been a key contributor to leading the overall organization.
He will certainly be missed but he has built a strong team and his team will continue to provide great service to our organization in his absence.
We wish Tim and his family all the best in their future endeavors.
Now we'd like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Aram Rubinson with Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Alisa Guyer on for Aram.
Can you talk just a little bit about sort of the 1TEAM approach as Commercial gets bigger? Are there any limitations to that approach? Is it a reasonable expectation to run the store as a single operating entity even if that business gets bigger? Yes.
Certainly there are times when -- as the Commercial business in a particular location gains scale the integration of the 1TEAM approach is generally less important.
It's typically when it's at lower volumes and you have fewer people particularly on the Commercial business you need to leverage the DIY staffing to help manage through spikes in the business.
So over time as the average per-store sales increase it is less and less important.
But remember we have a wide variety of volumes on our Commercial business per store.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us any sense of that range? I mean we can look at sort of the average per store.
But my understanding is that there are very few Commercial programs that are actually doing the average.
Yes I mean it's a pretty wide range.
And frankly we haven't really gotten into that in the past.
And I don't necessarily know that it's hurting it right now.
What I can tell you is we have some stores that are doing really really significant volume and we have some stores that do very little volume.
And we're working to move them all up the spectrum.
Our next question is from Kate McShane with Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> You had mentioned in your prepared comments that the discretionary category was up this quarter.
And I wondered if you could give us a little bit more detail on this.
Is this the first quarter where you've seen the discretionary category inflect positively? And do you think it was all weather related? Yes.
I mean we've had some challenges frankly for the last 2 or 3 years on our discretionary categories and this is the first time we've really seen some accelerated lift as compared to the rest of our business.
But really the one that really jumped out was the maintenance category and I think that that was due to weather.
I think the discretionary categories in some respect came along.
That's not to deemphasize the great work that our team is doing in discretionary categories.
But I think as we got more footsteps in the stores some of the discretionary purchases came along with those maintenance purchases.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my second question is on the Commercial business.
Have you talked about what your goal is for 2012 with regard to how many stores will have Commercial business versus the 62% you reported today? And with regards to the 92 new programs in Commercial where did the majority of those accounts come from regionally? I'll start with the first part of your question.
We really don't get into where we want to be at the end of the year.
I would tell you if we told you at the beginning of the year where we'd be at the halfway point we are significantly ahead of that.
We have a methodology here that's kind of termed 2 things.
One is pay-as-you-go and another one is underpromise and overdeliver.
So we set our sights low and as the business continues to perform we try to accelerate it.
So at this point in time we're very pleased with the progress that we've made so far this year.
Our performance continues to be good.
So in the short term we will continue to accelerate our openings.
But where we're going to end at end of the year I think is somewhat better to know how the business performs.
Secondly your question was on regional variations of customers? Help me with that a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
You had highlighted the 92 new programs in Commercial.
I wondered if there was one region where you had more success in obtaining those new programs or if it was more evenly distributed across the U.S.
Yes it's very evenly distributed.
There are some areas certain regions of the country where we aren't as penetrated as great and they will get a little bit of an upside.
But that's really just been our posture in those local markets on how aggressive we've been to open programs historically.
As we continue to perform very well everybody's getting a higher level of confidence in our ability and so we're being more aggressive in some of the markets where we were pretty conservative before.
But I think it's not based upon geography I think it's mainly based upon our posture in that local area.
Our next question is from Michael Lasser with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Do you think there's any risk that the warm weather in the last few months has pulled forward demand and you may feel it in the upcoming quarter especially at a time when oil prices and gas prices seem to be continually on the rise? Yes.
I think clearly that that's been one of our concerns.
As the warm weather hit in December and we saw some of our maintenance-related categories performing very well I will tell you we were quite concerned that it was a significant pull-forward.
I will tell you that as we've gotten further into the season where we typically see the reason -- the seasonal ramp-up that has become less of a concern than it was several months ago.
The second part of your question regarding gas prices clearly we have mentioned it many times in the past as we see significant increases in gas prices that creates a headwind for our business.
So we're clearly mindful of where gas prices are and where they're headed and we're managing and are projecting our business accordingly.
But who knows where they're going to go? What I know is we will focus very much on how do we help our customers manage through a high gas price environment how do we market to them how do we help sell them the parts and products that will increase their fuel efficiency.
And this isn't the first time we've been through it.
We've managed it very well in the past but it clearly would be a significant headwind.
Research Division</strong> And then my follow-up question is if you isolate the labor expense this quarter and then the trend over the last couple of quarters how's the leverage flowing through on labor expense as a lot of the growth has come from Commercial? It's a good question.
We have been successful at leveraging labor.
At the same time for the new programs that we're opening in Commercial obviously there's an investment that takes place on that.
And we certainly have opened more stores in the front half of this year than we have in the front half of last year.
And we feel as Bill mentioned good about the progress that we're making in Commercial so we expect to continue to make those investments.
But on our baseline business we continue to leverage from a labor perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the labor leverage hasn't really been there as you focused a lot of the investments on the Commercial side.
Some labor leverage on our core base business.
And what I was mentioning was that on some of the newer programs you'll see a little bit higher labor.
And so as we continue to ramp those up there will be a little bit of deleverage just on those programs.
Our next question is from Alan Rifkin with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Helen Pan filling in for Alan.
We were wondering if you could sort of talk about how the comp progressed throughout the quarter.
Was the quarter very back end-loaded in terms of performance? Yes.
I wouldn't say it was back end-loaded.
Actually if you look at the trajectory of the business during the quarter the middle part was really where the strength of the quarter came.
But if you take a step back and look at it more holistically if you look at it on a 2-year basis it was really very consistent.
So I think it's more to do with year-over-year comparisons during the quarter than anything timing-wise otherwise.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just had another question on the Commercial.
You said that the range of performance was very wide.
Have you seen that sort of narrow as existing companies with existing programs mature at all? Well it's just clearly as they mature yes we see them narrow and frankly we see them increase.
We've seen nice growth in our average weekly sales on the Commercial program but we continue to open new programs.
But those newer programs put pressure on the average weekly sales albeit we're very pleased with their progress.
They're coming out at higher levels than they used to and they're maturing faster so we continue to be pleased with the progress.
But with only 62% of our stores in the Commercial program we'll continue to open programs for an extended period of time.
That will pressure our average weekly sales and as Bill mentioned it will also pressure our operating margins because as you open those stores they're an EBIT drag for a period of time.
Our next question is from Greg Melich with ISI.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the SG&amp;A question.
The growing 9% the dollars this quarter would you say that's a good sort of normal run rate now given what's you plan for Commercial in these activities in Brazil and the ALLDATA building that business for Europe? I think it's probably hopefully a little bit at the high end on that.
So I mean I think that we have opportunities for just to continue to manage it.
The key for us is to be able to try to control the expenses that don't really do a lot from a customer service perspective.
So things like risk management et cetera we've got to be able to do a better job of lowering those expenses.
Conversely we've done a great job from a shrink perspective in being able to add margin improvement on that.
Further on to SG&amp;A as you mentioned we continue to feel good about the Commercial programs.
We've opened close to 200 of those programs in the first half of this year that's on pace.
We've opened just over 200 programs through the full year last year.
So we'll continue to make investments in Commercial particularly given the results that we have seen.
And as you mentioned to a very lesser extent things like ALLDATA Europe Brazil et cetera those are investments that albeit that we will continue to be internally aggressive about they will not be material to the financial statements overall.
So our investments are mostly focused on hub stores and Commercial.
Those are the places you'll see us.
Research Division</strong> And the labor scheduling that new program that you said you're implementing it was a 20-year-old system I think I heard in the prepared comments.
Can you describe a little bit on the timing of that and the costs and when we expect to see that? We expect to have that probably rolled out to the chain by the end of our fiscal year.
So hopefully at the beginning of our fiscal year '13 we will have that system in place.
And really it's an opportunity for us to get better visibility and better micromanaging if you will from a labor perspective.
So as Bill mentioned it is a 20-year-old system and it's worked well up to this point.
But we really have an opportunity to take it to the next generation and really manage it at a lower level than we have before.
So we think we'll be able to improve some efficiencies along the way.
Much of the investment has been made up to this point.
And so we're in the final stages of the investment.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just lastly on comp transactions.
I think Bill you mentioned that DIY you think it's sort of structural that you might get more AUR but it's just hard to get more actual transactions.
In this quarter was it actually a negative still? Or did it actually get slightly positive? Yes it was a headwind this quarter.
But Greg -- and I've tried to be very clear on this point.
It's been that way as long as I've been in this business.
We've seen significant or minor degradation in transaction counts year over year over year except during recessionary cycles as long as I've been in this business.
But you also have to understand that that's structural in a lot of cases because new parts technology make parts and products perform better and last longer.
But at the same time all the technology that goes into make them perform better costs more.
So there's a natural headwind on average ticket -- or excuse me a natural benefit on average ticket and a natural headwind on same-store transaction count.
Our next question is from David Gober with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to dig into the Commercial margins a little bit more.
And Bill I think you mentioned that Commercial margins have been going up.
And I wondered if that was simply related to the number of older programs continuing to grow and those programs maturing or if there's actually been any sort of structural shift in the way that you're executing the Commercial business that's improved your ability to execute sooner.
I think I would look at it as the maturation of some of the older programs.
And so -- and think about the fact that we've got a lot of programs that are still relatively immature.
And so we've seen EBIT margin improvement in just our Commercial business alone as the investments that we have to open those programs begin to get leverage as those programs begin to gain maturity and gain sales volume.
So really it's a leverageable model and we believe there's opportunities to continue to improve our EBIT margin within our Commercial business.
As we've stated before Commercial operates at a lower margin than DIY.
So as Commercial becomes a larger piece of the puzzle it will put some pressure on operating margin percent although obviously we're focused on operating margin dollars which is a real driver for ROIC as well because the investments aren't that significant to get a Commercial program going.
But overall operating margin is going to continue to improve we believe on the Commercial programs as they continue to gain momentum and increase volume.
Research Division</strong> And Bill I guess just as a follow-up on return on capital.
This quarter share buybacks were down a little bit versus last year and obviously that's going to happen eventually.
But I was just curious if there's any change in the thinking around longer-term capital allocation or if there's any incremental thought being given to dividends over buybacks or any change in the capital allocation philosophy.
No.
We actually feel pretty good about the capital allocation philosophy.
We believe that maintaining BBB stable targeting a credit metric of 2.5 albeit that there will be some fluctuation on any given quarter we think that that's the right capital deployment and served us very well.
And we think it's showed up in our financial results.
Our next question is from Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned even after the easy weather comparisons in January you thought that the performance in the seasonal ramp has been encouraging even after that.
As you look into that and the come-along on the discretionary side in 4Q do you think this is a sign of consumer feeling a little bit better overall? We're hearing from a lot of retailers that they've been positively surprised by sales.
So I was curious if that's something that you've looked at or perhaps discussed internally.
Yes Chris you've got to remember first that when things got really bad our business did not get bad.
So I don't think that we're a good barometer of how the consumer feels good or bad.
I don't think we've seen anything material in our trends that would make us think that the consumers' mindset has changed one way or another.
But it could be happening very much in other sectors of retail and we're just somewhat immune to those.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then as you've pushed out the Commercial program has there been any competitive changes as you've ramped up the growth and entered new markets? Yes I would say we haven't seen any material competitive changes across all geographies.
I mean in certain geographies you'll see somebody do something different.
But generally it's been consistent.
Unfortunately we have a lot of great competitors out there and they're tough every day out in the street.
But our Commercial team has really continued to execute on -- at a very high level and it's showing up in our growth in share and sales.
Our next question is from Michael Baker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just one real quick Commercial-related question.
Can you maybe articulate why you think your average Commercial sales volume versus others is so much lower? Is there anything structural there that the way you go about it with your sales force? So just trying to figure out what the potential opportunity would be there.
Yes I think it's maturation of our Commercial business.
We kind of changed our Commercial strategy about 4.5 years ago and we've been very methodical with it.
But we're a bit behind the development of other players in our sector behind some of them by 50 60 70 years but -- and others more on a comparable basis.
But we don't see anything in the Commercial business that makes us think long-term that we should perform any worse than the rest of the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess related to that the outside sales force that you guys employ there I have a number from about a year ago that it was about 250 outside salespeople.
Can you update us on where you are in that process? Yes.
We continue -- we kind of quit giving the specific numbers for competitive reasons.
But it continues to grow year-over-year and it's grown quite substantially since then.
We continue to be very pleased not only with the number of salespeople out there but really the maturation of that sales force.
We've done a lot of training for that sales force.
We've provided them with some technology that makes them more effective.
And frankly over time they continue to get more confidence in our program and they've been a key contributor to our success.
Research Division</strong> So one last question.
I'm just curious how are you guys and those sales guys go -- how are they going in trying to win business from an existing player? Is it -- and the other guys have the SKU count that you guys have.
So is it on price? Is it service? What -- how do you see you guys differentiating from the other guys to try to get to their volumes? I think if you look at our history the strength of AutoZone's business has been our culture which folds into great customer service and also our ability to have the right parts and the right products.
We've got good strong brands.
We leverage technology to make us a more efficient player.
So I think those are the kinds of things just same things that made us special in retail relate themselves very well to the Commercial business.
Our next question is from Colin McGranahan with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick one on the self-insurance reserve.
I think this was the second quarter in a row that you might have mentioned it.
It looks like as the broader market trend is maybe for some of those medical cost pressures to actually have eased a bit so wondering what specifically is driving that impact relatively large impact and how long you think that persists.
That's a good question.
And in fairness we didn't mention it last quarter as well as a bit of a headwind.
And so for us it is just claim-related larger claim costs from a medical perspective.
At the same time we also with increased activity on the Commercial side of the business with significant more trucks et cetera we've had some higher experience there as well from auto liability and workers' comp.
So it really is activity-based for us as well as some large claim experience so we think we'll cycle through that and we've got some initiatives in place.
And so as we look forward we expect it to be less of a headwind.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And then I got on the call late so I may have missed it.
But did you detail what you thought the gross margin pressure was from Commercial mix? We didn't necessarily other than the things we've said previously.
But again obviously we've got some benefits from shrink.
Commercial continues to be a bit of a headwind on certainly our gross margin rates.
But obviously we've overcome that with other things.
So I would categorize it as overall our gross margin rate remains relatively healthy.
Certainly from a mix perspective Commercial will wind up putting some pressure on gross margin.
As Commercial matures over time we believe that our EBIT margin will improve.
But Commercial will operate at a lower margin than DIY.
Yes.
I guess the other thing on gross margin we did have some fairly significant pressure in the quarter based upon the mix of products that we sold.
And that was generally driven by the weather-related categories.
Our final question today is from Bret Jordan with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up and on the discretionary mix trying to determine the weather impact versus the economic impact.
Did you look at that improvement in markets that did not have abnormal weather patterns over the winter? Did discretionary remain more or less flat in some of your Southern or Western markets? Frankly we saw the weather pattern changes pretty significant across every part of the United States.
I mean the South had significantly warmer weather the West was warmer.
So no we haven't tried to go tease it out of those individual markets but we saw it pretty much across-the-board.
LLC Research Division</strong> But it really feels like it's a weather impact versus an improvement in consumer confidence buying categories they didn't buy 2 years ago? Yes I think that's our supposition at this point in time.
We'll learn more as we go forward.
But we saw a big change in the growth rates of maintenance-related products which are really the kinds of things that our customers would do in more favorable weather patterns.
So our supposition at this point in time was the discretionary kind of came along with that much more so than there's been a change in consumer mindset.
I would now like to turn the call back over to your speakers for any closing comments.
Before we conclude the call I'd like to take a moment to reiterate that our business model remains very solid.
We remain excited about our growth prospects for the year.
We cannot take anything for granted as we understand our customers have alternatives.
Our culture remains our key point of differentiation from our competition and we must not lose sight of the importance of basic store execution in order to remain very successful.
We have a solid plan for the remainder of 2012 and our team is positioned to succeed.
But I want to stress that this is a marathon and not a sprint.
As we will continue to focus on the basics and never take our eye off of optimizing long-term shareholder value we are confident AutoZone will continue to be incredibly successful.
We want to thank you for participating in today's call.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the AutoZone conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
This conference call will discuss AutoZone's third quarter financial results.
Bill Rhodes the company's Chairman President and CEO will be making a short presentation on the highlights of the quarter.
The conference call will end promptly at 10 a.m.
Central Time 11 a.m.
Eastern Time.
Before Mr.
Rhodes begins the company has requested that you listen to the following statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use words such as believe anticipate should intend plan will expect estimate project positioned strategy and similar expressions.
These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends current conditions expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including without limitation: credit market conditions; the impact of recessionary conditions; competition; product demand; the ability to hire and retain qualified employees; consumer debt levels; inflation; weather; raw material costs of our suppliers; energy prices; war and the prospect of war including terrorist activity; availability of consumer transportation; construction delays; access to available and feasible financing; and changes in laws or regulations.
Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 27 2011 and these risk factors should be read carefully.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone's Fiscal 2012 Third Quarter Conference Call.
With me today are Bill Giles Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer Store Development and IT; and Brian Campbell Vice President Treasurer Investor Relations and Tax.
Regarding the quarter I hope you've had an opportunity to read our press release and learn about the quarter's results.
If not the press release along with slides complementing our comments today is available on our website www.autozoneinc.com.
Please click on Quarterly Earnings Conference Calls to see them.
We are pleased to announce another quarter of strong financial and operational performance.
For the third fiscal quarter our earnings per share increased 18.6% and our domestic same-store sales increased 3.9%.
This marks the 23rd consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth.
Our sales grew 7% in total and our operating profit increased by 8.7% driven by our continued growth in retail sales strong performance in our Commercial business and ongoing growth in our Mexico ALLDATA and E-Commerce businesses.
Over the course of the last few years we've grown total sales in the auto parts segment in the high single-digit range while growing our other businesses in low double-digits.
The credit for our stability in performance belongs to all AutoZoners across our organization.
Their focus on continually striving to improve customer service is what differentiates us we believe in the eyes of our customers which ultimately leads to our strong financial performance.
Our strategies remain consistent this quarter and we remain committed to our game plan heading into our all-important fourth fiscal quarter.
This quarter is important from the perspective that the summer selling season generates the highest average weekly sales.
The summer months tend to put more pressure on components of the electrical coolant systems and other systems.
In addition it's an easier time of the year to work on your car and it is the summer driving season.
The foundation for our strategies is consistently delivering trustworthy advice an intense focus on consistent execution and ongoing refinements to our processes and product offerings.
We remain committed to this approach and believe our AutoZoners' execution of this well-defined well-communicated approach has been a critical element in our success.
With our third quarter sales up 6.7% over last year's quarter customers continued to shop with us to find good values in order to effectively maintain repair and enhance their vehicles.
During the quarter we experienced some moderate deceleration in our retail business.
Although we no longer receive the detailed NPD market share information we continue to receive summarized information.
That summarization indicates that we continue to gain share at levels generally consistent with recent history.
Our domestic Commercial sales growth exceeded 20% for the eighth consecutive quarter and we grew our other business made up of ALLDATA and E-Commerce by 10.1%.
In an effort to address questions that may be on some listeners' minds this morning I thought I'd spend a moment discussing trend changes we have seen and their potential impact on current and future sales.
We'll spend a moment discussing our results and what this means for AutoZone for the remainder of the fiscal year.
We were pleased with our financial and operational performance for the quarter.
EPS grew at 18.6% slightly below the 20% growth we've experienced for the last 13 consecutive quarters.
Operating margin improved 37 basis points to 20.2%.
We continue to aggressively invest in both our retail and Commercial businesses.
During the quarter we opened 121 new Commercial programs and 287 for the fiscal year.
We've surpassed last fiscal year's openings already and we still have a quarter to go.
We now have programs in 64% of our domestic stores and approximately 25% of the total program base is less than 3 years old.
It is important that we continue to make these investments that position us -- position the company for future growth.
As most of you have heard from other retailers and businesses April was a softer month.
As we were asked on our last conference call did the warm weather in the last few weeks pull -- or few months pull forward demand? We said it was a concern of ours but as we got further from December it would become less of a concern.
Unfortunately we too experienced softer sales in April in both our domestic retail and Commercial businesses.
As we assessed our performance in April in hindsight our perspective is the softness in April was likely due to mild winter weather and early spring conditions experienced across the country.
We believe spring maintenance was accelerated this year due to these conditions particularly in the DIY business.
In essence we believe some of April's business was in fact pulled forward.
We know and understand that many of our customers continue to be under financial strains due to macroeconomic conditions.
However that has been the case for an extended period of time.
We don't see any significant changes in the marketplace or in the macroeconomic conditions that indicate a material change to the mid- to long-term fundamentals of our industry.
We continue to be optimistic about the strength of our industry both retail and commercial and we continue to be quite pleased with the progress we are making on our growth initiatives in both sectors.
Our belief on the health of the industry was exemplified late in the quarter when we remained committed to our new Commercial program openings.
We understood opening additional Commercial programs would negatively impact SG&amp;A in the short run but pay dividends for the future.
We are very fortunate to operate in an industry that has very strong fundamentals an industry that sustains good growth regardless of the macro environment.
Although we understand that any industry's performance will fluctuate from time to time we believe the health of this industry will remain strong for the balance of the year and beyond.
Third we should address the concerns surrounding new car sales and the potential impact in increasing seasonally adjusted annual rate of vehicle sales has on both our DIY and DIFM businesses if not in our opinion a material driver to either sector like gas prices and miles driven.
And over the longer term we need new cars as today's new cars are tomorrow's OKVs.
We do expect new car sales to increase from the depressed levels we have seen in recent years.
However with over 240 million vehicles on the road and the average age at 10.6 years the number of annual new car sales doesn't impact the overall vehicle mix materially.
And new car sales can't be considered in isolation.
Scrappage rates are also an important element and they've generally been in the 5% range or 12 million vehicles a year basically offsetting the new vehicles added.
This impact has caused the number of total vehicles to remain at approximately 240 million for the last 4 years.
Our hope is absolute vehicles on the road going forward increases.
We are encouraged by the annual new car sales rates trending over 14 million units as it is likely that those vehicles being traded in will find their way to new maintenance-friendly owners.
We want to reiterate we believe that over the long term miles driven and average age of vehicles are the most important metric for our industry's future sales performance which recently have shown trends in our industry's favor.
Now let me review our operating theme for 2012 1TEAM; Driving our Future.
The key priorities for the year are: Great People Providing Great Service!; profitably growing our Commercial business; leveraging the Internet and hub store improvements.
On the retail front this past quarter under the Great People Providing Great Service! theme we continued with our theme of intense focus on improving execution.
We continue to invest in training our store AutoZoners.
We are also keenly focused on hiring and retaining the best parts professionals in the business and we've been pleased with our progress in this area.
Recently we implemented further enhancements to our parts catalog and sales tool Z-net.
Additionally we remain on track with our new labor management system that will replace our legacy system.
This new system will further assist us in managing our business as one team leveraging our resources across both DIY and DIFM while providing the best service to all customers regardless of how they interact with us.
We're also working on new planogramming efforts to improve and customize our sales core presentations to the demographics of a local market.
Lastly our efforts around expanding the utilization of hub stores remains a major focus.
Our ability to add coverage while growing inventory per store in a working capital-friendly way is at the top of our priority list.
This past quarter we expanded or relocated 17 hubs allowing us to add inventory and continue to increase our yes percentage for both our retail and Commercial customers.
We continue to be very pleased with the results of this initiative and our efforts to ensure we have the right-sized hubs in the right location is progressing very well.
On the Commercial front as I mentioned we are executing our plan to continually open new programs opening 121 new programs during the third quarter.
We also focused diligently on growing our business with existing customers and we are quite pleased with our progress on both fronts.
We now have Commercial in 2 946 stores or 64% of our domestic store base.
We will discuss our operating performance in more detail later in the call.
However our results with our most recent new store openings combined with the success of our older programs has given us greater confidence and encourages us to be aggressive in adding additional resources and new programs to this important growth initiative.
Regarding our third quarter sales results our total auto parts segment made up of both our domestic and Mexico businesses delivered a 6.7% increase.
Our other businesses made up of ALLDATA and E-Commerce were up 10.1%.
During the quarter we continued to open new stores both in the United States and Mexico 33 new stores in the United States and 10 in Mexico and expect to grow square footage for the year at a combined annual growth rate of approximately 4%.
We continue to make progress on our hub store initiative.
This initiative is focused on expanding and/or relocating current hubs.
During the quarter we have expanded or relocated 17 hubs and year-to-date 31 hubs have been affected.
Our hub count remained the same at 146.
Since we've begun our efforts on redefining our hub network and square footage needs we've modified to some degree 51 hubs.
As we continue to see traction from utilizing and expanding the reach of our hub network by expanding sales from new hub store SKU additions plus related parts sales we see the potential to modify in some way up to as many as 53 of the remaining hubs over the next few years.
While we spend a lot of time highlighting our hub strategy this strategy is very important currently but arguably even more important over the long term.
As parts proliferation continues to expand and vehicle parts technology advancements occur in many cases it results in lower unit sales per SKU.
In order to effectively combat this trend it is imperative that we have the local market availability to service our customers on a just-in-time basis in a financially prudent manner.
Our hub strategy allows us to accomplish this objective by aggregating demand of a cluster of satellite stores.
In some cases combining this demand gives us the opportunity to add new local market coverage.
In other cases it allows us to move products that are stocked in many of our satellite stores to the hub stores improving the productivity of our inventory.
Local market inventory coverage is an imperative in this business for both our professional and retail customers and our hub strategy has allowed us to expand local market coverage in a cost-effective manner.
Additionally we continue to refine our product assortments in the satellite stores specifically focused on late-model coverage.
As our Commercial performance has improved the overall sales productivity of our average store continues to set the pace for the industry increasing 3.3% over the prior year's trailing 4 quarters allowing us the opportunity to efficiently expand our inventory assortments.
I'll take a moment now to talk more specifically about our third quarter performance in a little more detail.
Our domestic same-store sales grew 3.9% for the quarter.
Our third quarter which ended May 5 did experience some variability in sales results.
As I mentioned earlier we attribute the inconsistency in selling patterns compared to previous years to the milder-than-normal winter and earlier spring conditions we experienced this year.
Last quarter we mentioned that we believe weather was a positive on our quarterly results.
What we learned this quarter was that weather did have an impact on the results this quarter.
Traditionally our third quarter benefits from a steady ramp in sales of maintenance-related items.
Items we include in this category include antifreeze brakes oil shocks struts spark plugs and wiper blades and many more.
In many of these categories we experienced strong sales growth in Q2 while in Q3 sales were a little softer.
Our third quarter traditionally marks the largest selling mix quarter for maintenance-related items.
We believe the weather was mild enough in our Q2 ending early February that some jobs that are normally performed during Q3 were completed in Q2.
Overall however weather always evens out over the long term.
That's why we never get too excited on the upside or downside in regards to weather.
Our increased emphasis on the Commercial business again resulted in quite impressive results.
Our third quarter Commercial sales growth of 21.4% represents our eighth straight quarter of 20% plus sales growth.
While we are pleased with our Commercial rate of growth we recognize that we currently have a small market share and this remains a tremendous opportunity for us both in terms of growing the number of programs that we currently have as well as improving the productivity of our existing programs.
Therefore we have and plan to continue to invest in this business in order to grow sales and further capture profitable market share.
As we accelerate our investments to grow Commercial and as Commercial becomes a larger portion of our overall business we anticipate our gross margin and operating expense rates will be challenged as Commercial is currently a lower-margin business.
However as we stated in the past we are focused on growing operating profit dollars at strong levels of returns on the capital we deploy.
It is important to highlight that while Commercial is dilutive to our overall margins we continue to be pleased with the profitability of our Commercial business.
I'd also like to recognize our other businesses ALLDATA and E-Commerce for having another fine quarter of 10.1% in sales from this time last year.
This portion of our business while small as a percentage of our overall sales mix continues to experience faster sales growth in the auto parts stores.
We are proud of our results in the businesses we manage outside of our stores and we feel we have a healthy runway for growth well into the future with them.
Additionally we've been very focused on leveraging the Internet across a variety of fronts.
Our efforts are concentrated on providing our retail customers with access to store product and repair information to help them research or complete the purchase online an important extension of the trustworthy advice we provide in our stores.
On the Commercial side we are providing our professional customers with tools to streamline their interactions with us making us easier to do business with.
We continue to engage in social media providing additional avenues for our customers to interact with us.
We've been pleased with our progress on developing our Internet offerings but we continue to be in the very early innings of tapping into these growing customer segments that utilize this venue for researching or ordering their parts and products.
We should also highlight another strong performance in return on invested capital as we were able to grow this metric to 32.7% on a trailing 4-quarter basis which represents another new all-time high for our organization.
One of the big drivers to this growth has been the EBIT growth of the Commercial business.
While having a lower EBIT margin as a percentage to sales which creates some margin rate pressure the capital requirements of our Commercial model are minimal.
The investments are mainly operating expense-related AutoZoners who develop relationships and sell to our customers and other AutoZoners who execute the orders and deliver product to these important customers.
The ability to leverage our existing assets primarily AutoZoners store locations inventory and information systems across this additional customer base provides us with a terrific opportunity to grow operating profit dollars and drive incremental returns on capital.
It is important to reinforce that we will always maintain our diligence regarding capital stewardship as the capital we spend is our investors' capital.
We are encouraged by our efforts thus far in 2012 but we know our busiest selling season is in front of us.
We're excited about our continuing initiatives in place and believe our efforts and our belief the competitive landscape isn't changing markedly provides us with confidence heading into our summer selling months.
Our commitment to our ongoing planning efforts allows us good visibility into business trends and our team is committed to managing to those trends appropriately.
We've been very deliberate in how we manage expenses and capital in order to deliver consistent strong financial performance while positioning our business for long-term growth and we will continue with this strategy well into the future.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bill Giles to talk about our financial results for the quarter.
Bill? Thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone.
To start this morning let me take a few moments to talk more specifically about our retail Commercial and Mexico results for the quarter.
For the quarter total auto parts sales increased 6.7% on top of last year's third quarter's growth of 8.5%.
This segmentation includes our domestic retail and Commercial businesses and our Mexico stores.
Regarding macro trends during the second quarter nationally unleaded gas prices started out at $3.52 a gallon and inched up finishing the quarter at $3.79 a gallon.
Last year if you recall gas prices increased $0.83 per gallon during the third quarter starting at $3.14 and ending at $3.97 a gallon.
We're encouraged by the recent declines in gas prices as the reduction in prices at the pump can materially help our customers' discretionary spending.
At the same time the gas prices remaining at these overall high levels we continue to communicate through our marketing messages to our customers the steps they can take to improve their gas mileage.
Miles driven showed some improvement in January February and March up 1.6% 1.8% and 0.9% respectively.
These increases marked the largest year-over-year increases in miles driven since the fall of 2010.
The other statistic we highlight is the number of 7-year-olds and older vehicles on the road which continues to trend in our industry's favor.
We also recognize the impact of miles driven on cars over 10 years old the current average is much different than on newer cars in terms of wear and tear.
For the trailing 4 quarters total auto parts sales per square foot was $265.
This statistic continues to set the pace for the rest of the industry.
This metric is up 2.9% over last year's third quarter.
This is the highest level we have achieved since fiscal 2003.
This impressive improvement is a key contributor to our record EBIT margin percent and our record ROIC.
For the quarter total Commercial sales increased 21.4%.
Commercial represented 15.4% of our total sales and grew $57 million over last year's Q3.
Last year's Commercial sales mix percent was 13.5%.
As we have said previously overall we have been very pleased with the progress we are making in our Commercial business both operationally and financially and we remain on track with our plans.
We believe there are ample opportunities for us to continue to improve many facets of our operations and offerings and therefore we are optimistic about the future of this business.
Our sales growth has come from both existing and new customers.
We continue to believe we can grow revenues in existing stores and we will continue to open additional Commercial programs.
This past quarter as Bill mentioned we opened 121 new programs versus 92 programs in Q2 and 74 in our first fiscal quarter.
We opened only 34 programs during Q3 of last year.
We expanded the number of stores with the Commercial program by 4.3% during just this quarter and 15.3% over last year's third quarter ended.
We now have our Commercial program in 2 946 stores supported by 146 hub stores.
Just fewer than 25% of our programs are 3 years old or younger.
With only 64% of our domestic stores having a Commercial program and our average revenue per program materially below several of our competitors we believe there's ample opportunity for additional program growth aside from improved productivity opportunities in current programs.
Our focus on building the Commercial initiatives that have been in place for the last few years remains our primary focus.
We continue to watch our sales force mature.
We are also enhancing training and introducing additional technology to optimize the productivity of our sales force.
We have increased our efforts around analyzing customer purchasing trends and in-stock trends.
We have a model that is successful and scalable and we are continuing to test additional enhancements to our offerings.
In addition to our focus on further developing and expanding our sales force we have continued to add significant resources to our Commercial business from additional late-model import and domestic coverage both in satellite and hub stores to additional labor hours and trucks.
And what remains a validation of our ongoing strategy our Duralast brand continues to gain traction with our customers.
In summary we remain committed to our long-term growth strategy.
We have accelerated the growth of our Commercial programs having opened 670 programs over the past 36 months a 29% increase.
We believe our -- we are well positioned to grow this business and capture market share.
Our performance and current model demonstrate an ability to scale this business in a profitable manner.
We continue to be excited about our opportunities in this business.
Our Mexico stores continue to perform well.
We opened 10 new stores during the third quarter and 18 stores since the beginning of fiscal 2012.
We currently have 297 stores in Mexico.
We remain resolute on our strategy to open stores at a steady space while managing our Mexico business for the long run.
We have operated stores in Mexico for over 13 years and we continue to see great opportunity for growth going forward.
Our returns and profit growth have them in line with our expectations.
Our efforts to open new stores in Brazil are progressing and we expect to open our first store in the second half of calendar 2012.
We're also expanding ALLDATA to Europe.
Both of these initiatives remain in the early stages and will be implemented in a measured fashion.
Neither should have a significant impact on our financial results over the mid-term planning horizon.
Recapping our second quarter performance for the company in total our sales for the quarter were $2 112 000 000 an increase of 6.7% from last year's third quarter.
Domestic same-store sales or sales for stores open for more than 1 year were up 3.9% for the quarter.
Gross margin for the quarter was 51.6% of sales up 37 basis points compared to last year's third quarter.
The improvement in gross margin was primarily attributable to leveraging distribution costs due to higher sales and lower shrink expense.
In regards to inflation we have seen rising costs in commodity-related products.
Although certain categories have experienced some higher levels of inflation we have generally been able to pass along its cost inflation.
We will remain cognizant of future developments regarding inflation and we'll remain -- and we'll make the appropriate adjustments should they arise.
Looking forward we continue to believe there remains opportunity for gross margin expansion within both the retail and Commercial businesses.
However we do not manage to a targeted gross profit margin percentage.
We are focused on growing absolute gross profit dollars.
And gross profit dollars in our total auto parts segment were up 7.5% for the quarter.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 31.4% of sales flat with last year's third quarter.
During the quarter operating expenses as a percentage of sales were favorably impacted by lower incentive compensation which was partially offset by higher self-insurance costs.
This marks the third quarter where self-insurance was a headwind for us.
The exposure we're seeing in this area made up of medical workers' compensation auto and general liabilities remains a concern for us.
However we are seeing some improvement and with our additional focus expect this to be less of a pressure point going forward.
While we have experienced higher operating expense percentage growth these past couple of years higher than our historic growth rates we have been deliberate with our expenditures.
We have purposefully invested dollars in our strategic retail and Commercial business initiatives to position the company for future sales and profit growth.
This organization takes great pride in the disciplined approach to managing our cost structure and leveraging our culture of thrift and we remain committed to appropriately managing expenses in line with our overall performance.
Our current expenditures have been made to better position our company for future growth a good example being the acceleration in opening Commercial programs.
We continue to believe we are well positioned to manage our cost structure for this foreseeable future.
Earnings before interest and taxes or EBIT for the quarter was $427 million up 8.7% over last year's third quarter.
Our EBIT margin improved to 20.2% or 37 basis points versus the previous year's third quarter.
This is the first quarter in our company's history that we have exceeded a 20% operating margin.
Interest expense for the quarter was $39.7 million compared with $39.9 million in Q3 a year ago essentially flat.
As we completed the new $500 million 10-year bond deal this past quarter we do expect our interest expense to increase approximately $16.5 million annually or $5 million more in interest expense in Q4.
Debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $3 606 000 000 or approximately $385 million more than last year's third quarter balance of $3 221 000 000.
Our adjusted debt level metric finished the quarter at 2.46x EBITDAR.
While in any given quarter we may increase or decrease debt levels based on management's opinion regarding debt and equity market conditions we remain committed to both our investment-grade rating and our capital allocation strategy.
And share repurchases are an important element of that strategy.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 35.8% above last year's third quarter of 35.6% but essentially flat.
Net income for the quarter of $249 million was up 9.3% versus the prior year's third quarter.
Our diluted share count of 39.6 million was down approximately 8% from last year's third quarter.
The combination of these factors drove earnings per share for the quarter to $6.28 up 18.6% over the prior year's third quarter.
Relating to the cash flow statement for the third fiscal quarter of 2012 we generated $337 million of operating cash flow.
Net fixed assets were up 6% versus last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $96 million and reflected the additional expenditures required to open 43 new stores plus 3 replacement stores this quarter capital expenditures on existing stores and work on development of new stores for upcoming quarters.
With the new stores opened we finished this past quarter with 4 613 stores in 48 states the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico and 297 stores in Mexico for a total store count of 4 910 stores.
Depreciation totaled $49 million for the quarter versus last year's third quarter expense of $44.9 million.
With our excess cash flow we repurchased $400 million of AutoZone's stock in the third quarter.
And at the end of the quarter we had $836 million remaining under our share buyback authorization.
We continue to view our share repurchase program as an attractive capital deployment strategy.
Accounts payable as a percent of gross inventory finished the quarter at 109% flat with last year's third quarter.
Next I'd like to update you on our inventory levels in total and on a per-store basis.
We reported an inventory balance of $2.6 billion up 5.5% versus the Q3 ending balance last year.
Increased inventory reflects new store growth along with additional investments in coverage for select categories.
Inventory per store was up 1.6% and below our 3.9% domestic same-store sales growth.
Finally as Bill previously mentioned our continued disciplined capital management approach resulted in return on invested capital for the trailing 4 quarters of 32.7%.
We have and will continue to make investments that we believe will generate returns that significantly exceed our cost of capital.
Now I'll turn it back to Bill Rhodes.
Thank you Bill.
In wrapping up our thoughts on the quarter I know many listeners are concerned about the future and where our industry sales trends are headed.
Let me stress we remain bullish on the health of our industry.
We're excited about our sales opportunities heading into the fourth quarter.
As previously mentioned we have experienced unusual weather patterns for the last several months and our sales have fluctuated positively and negatively which isn't highly unusual.
Our company has been successful over the long run because we remain patient and thoughtful on our execution especially our execution at the store level.
We remain committed to providing exceptional customer service in order to earn our customers' business every day.
Before we conclude I want to reiterate our team's commitment to our culture and our customers.
Although our industry's performance has been strong we believe our efforts have contributed significantly to our success as evidenced by our sales and share growth in both retail and Commercial.
We remain committed to continuing to improve our business model and our operations.
We believe our business model is healthy and we have material opportunities for further improvements from this point.
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 we will continue to focus on our key priorities: Great People Providing Great Service!; profitably grow Commercial; leverage the Internet; and finally our hub strategy.
Our financial and operational performance has been strong for the first 3 quarters of our fiscal year.
I want to again thank and congratulate our entire organization for their dedication to our customers fellow AutoZoners stockholders and communities.
Our approach remains consistent.
We're focused on succeeding in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 and we are optimistic and excited about the remainder of the year.
Now we'd like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Gary Balter with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It's Gary and Simeon.
I'll ask questions and then Simeon will ask the follow-up or whatever the rules are.
You commented Bill on the fact that business fluctuates and we appreciate that.
But could you -- what happens like -- and you could -- maybe you haven't seen this type of period but it's such a mild winter is there a concern that that business in the spring will stay weaker into the summer because you just didn't do the damage to the cars that you normally do in winter? How do you think about that? Yes I think your point's an excellent point Gary.
And I'm not sure that we have a well-defined answer for it.
I don't remember a weather -- a winter where the weather was as mild as it was and when spring came as early as it did.
Clearly and we said this on our second quarter call our failure-related businesses did not perform as well during the winter as they have historically.
What I don't know is if we get significant heat in the summer like we typically do will we have increased rate of failures or lower rate of failures? I think that's yet to be seen.
And I don't have a good proxy for assessing how we've done it in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it's Simeon for a follow-up 2 parts.
To the extent there is a pull-forward can you look at regions in which weather changes were not as dramatic and has there been more consistency? And then the second question the Commercial programs as you mentioned are still relatively immature.
But in some of the older rollouts say on the 3-year side can you talk about the balance of growth between the new customers versus increasing share with the existing ones? Sure.
I'll take both parts of that Simeon.
Yes in places where we have more normalized weather patterns we have definitely seen more normalized sales patterns.
And that's happened for during this whole period both during the wintertime during the early spring and during the later spring.
As far as the older Commercial programs one thing that I think is important to highlight and if you looked at the productivity of our Commercial programs they haven't -- they weren't necessarily as strong in the quarter.
Some of that gets into how -- when in the quarter we're opening those programs so I wouldn't read too much into that.
What I will say is we continue to be very pleased with the performance of our older programs as well as our newer programs.
And you must understand that on the older programs as we're opening some of these new programs we are taking -- cannibalizing some of the sales of the older programs but we're frankly quite happy with the progress that we're seeing on that front so far.
And as far as specific customers we continue to grow new customers.
We continue to accelerate the growth rate of retained customers.
And we unfortunately do lose customers but we're losing them at a slower rate than we have historically had.
So we feel good about all 3 of those metrics at this point.
Our next question is from Chris Horvers with JPMorgan Chase.
Research Division</strong> Following up can you talk more specifically about the variability during the quarter? The math on your competitor suggested sort of mid-single-digit negative comps in April.
And related to that what you are you seeing in May that gives you confidence that the pull-forward was generally isolated to the month of April? Yes.
We wouldn't comment specifically on our month overall but we weren't negative in any month during the quarter.
So again as Bill mentioned April and I don't think it's unusual for any of the other retailers was a little bit softer.
We attribute a lot of that to the weather.
Again we don't see anything from a macro perspective or the behavior of our customers that would indicate to us that there's been a change in the health of the industry.
So we remain relatively positive as we look into the summer months and we'll continue to execute our strategies.
Research Division</strong> Last year you had -- there were some negative traffic comps in DIY.
Could you just talk about what you saw in this most recent quarter and how you're thinking about DIY growth going forward just maybe qualitatively? Sure.
As we've talked about over I guess about the last year we have returned to where we've been challenged on transaction count and have had negative transaction counts in our business each of the last 4 quarters.
That trend didn't change significantly one way or the other during this quarter.
As we've mentioned many times some of it is structural in nature as the longevity of parts are much longer than they used to be.
But the prices for those longer-lasting parts are much higher.
So I don't think our point of view on transaction counts has changed any over the last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final -- just one final one as you think about 25% of your stores having Commercial programs that are 3 years or younger what's the waterfall on productivity growth? I mean do these stores come out at a -- Commercial program comes out at 70% productivity and then ramps up over 4 or 5 years to 100%? Is that what you're seeing? Yes.
Probably a little less than that.
And frankly Chris I think that we're still monitoring and measuring the model if you will of how the Commercial programs mature.
When you think about all the things that we've done to our Commercial programs over the last 3 or 4 years between the territory sales managers some of the technology that we've added in the hub stores all the inventory we've put into the hub stores to improve our coverage overall it's an evolving model.
And as Bill pointed out before our programs are opening up stronger today than they were a few years ago and they're continuing to ramp.
But we don't really know what the maturity curve ultimately will be.
But we're pretty happy with the programs that we've opened up to date and the progress that we're seeing.
Yes.
Can I build on that for a second too? I think the most important thing is we don't think our oldest programs are mature.
We think that they have tremendous upside from where we are today so we don't know what the -- where the high watermark will be.
Our next question is from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-on questions on some topics that we've already discussed.
First of all as you think about the impact of the weather and its impact on the DIY business relative to the Commercial business do you see those segments being impacted differently by the weather developments over the past couple of months? Not dramatically.
I think that both businesses were impacted to some level by some of the activity in April overall.
So I don't think that I think we're immune to it.
And certainly segments or 2 businesses were immune to it at all.
Research Division</strong> And also on the weather issue as you think about the impact of that business or rather of changes in your business mix on gross margin I know failure sounds like it was under a little bit of pressure.
Can you talk about whether those mix changes impacted grosses or whether you would expect that to be the case over the next quarter or 2? Well I don't know over the next quarter or 2 but there's no question that we probably had a little bit of a mix change -- a little bit of a mix impact -- mix impacted our gross margin rate for the quarter.
So you're right on that Matt that the mix of the products probably put a little bit of pressure on margin.
The margin's still healthy and we feel pretty good about the direction it's headed in.
But for this past quarter we'd say mix was probably not helpful.
Research Division</strong> And then finally you spoke about the pace of openings of new Commercial programs in the quarter and the extent to that -- to which might have been diluted your growth in sales per average -- Commercial sales per average Commercial program.
Any way to quantify that? Only you guys see the schedule intra-quarter and I know that I think you opened [ph] a record number of Commercial programs.
So presumably the decline or the deceleration in productivity growth for Commercial program was magnified by that.
Should we see that assuming the pace of sales trends or underlying sales trends are equal should we see that growth number bounce a bit over the summer quarter? Yes.
Here's how I'd address that Matt.
Every segment of Commercial programs that we have is continuing to increase.
So our long-term opened stores are continuing to grow average weekly sales at a pretty healthy rate.
And our new Commercial programs are coming out faster than they were before and they're growing more rapidly.
So we continue to be pleased on all fronts.
Research Division</strong> That's fair.
But just to parse it a little bit more closely your DIY sales per store in aggregate decelerated by about 1 point.
Your Commercial sales in aggregate -- Commercial sales per Commercial program slowed by about 4 points.
It sounds like that overstates the underlying slowdown in Commercial momentum.
I think that's correct.
And I don't want to get into any more specifics.
But that's generally accurate.
Our next question is from Alan Rifkin with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions on the Commercial side Bill.
So it looks like if my math is right for 13 consecutive quarters your gross margins year-over-year have actually increased which coincides pretty well with the point at which you started to accelerate the Commercial desk rollout.
Would it be fair to assume that the benefits that you're getting on leverage from distribution costs actually outweigh the detrimental gross margins that are inherent on the Commercial side of the business relative to DIY? I wouldn't hang it on distribution costs per se although we continue to get some benefits on all fronts of the components of gross margin.
So clearly as you've heard us talk about over the last several quarters shrink has been a benefit to us and we've had some good benefits on that.
We've had some benefits on distribution.
Gross margin rate over quarters has been relatively healthy.
As Matt mentioned earlier the mix of business probably was a little bit of a headwind on our overall gross margin.
But as we continue to grow the Commercial business it will have a lower gross margin rate than retail.
So as it migrates itself to becoming a larger percentage of our overall total business it will continue to put pressure on gross margin.
You just haven't seen it in the last few quarters because we've gotten some benefits from things like shrink et cetera.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Bill with the acceleration of the Commercial desk program in the current quarter was there any material cost over and above the original plan that was associated with the earlier opening of these desks? I wouldn't say over what we planned on.
I think that we are continuing -- obviously those programs that are opening are obviously less mature.
And so therefore they do have a little bit of a headwind from an expense standpoint.
So there are some incremental costs that are incurred in the startup phase of the Commercial programs but not different than what we anticipated.
So we have pretty good line of sight relative to how and where we're spending our money.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last one if I may it's somewhat of a follow-up to an earlier question.
So if we look at the revenue stream of the 670 desks that have been added in the last 3 years and compare it to the older 2 000-plus desks where do we stand relatively speaking in terms of the revenue production of the more recent desks that have been added? Yes.
They clearly produce substantially below where the other more mature programs are.
But as I mentioned earlier we're pretty enthusiastic because they're coming out at higher levels and they're growing more rapidly.
And the other part of that that you have to think about is we've opened -- kind of like in the retail sector we've opened the best programs in the best markets already.
So we're going down to the next tier of market potential if you will and they're coming in at higher rates and they're growing more rapidly.
So we continue to be pretty excited about that.
And that gives us greater confidence to continue to open more and more programs over time.
Our next question is from Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Want to dig a little bit deeper -- and thanks Bill for all the color around the sales trends.
And if you look at it holistically comparing the fourth quarter -- I'm sorry the second quarter the third quarter how much demand do you think we did pull forward? Could it be 100 basis points that we gave up this quarter? And secondly if you look at those individual categories do you think some of that pull-forward we have is still going to be with us in the fourth quarter? Or do you think we worked through most of it in April and a little bit of May? Yes.
Greg those are great questions.
And in all fairness I wish I could quantifiably answer those with some sense of assurance.
But even with hindsight and all the details that we have I can't tell you exactly how much the third quarter benefited by it -- or the second quarter benefited by it and the third quarter was impacted by it.
Something in your order of magnitude seems like it makes sense to me.
And then moving into your second part of your question what does this mean to the summer selling season? If it truly was that maintenance jobs that are normally performed when the weather improves were pulled forward earlier then that should have no bearing on our summer months.
What we don't know is the question that was asked earlier of the milder winter did it put less stress on parts? Yes.
Does that mean it's going -- more parts are going to fail in the summer? Or does it mean fewer parts are going to fail? And I think that's yet to be seen.
I think the big thing from our point of view we had a choppy month.
We have those from time to time.
We are not altering what we are doing in our business in any material way.
We continue to believe that this industry is incredibly healthy.
We have tremendous opportunities to control our own destiny.
And so we're moving forward with our plans.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And on the inflation front last year we had some pressure in some of the commodity chemicals et cetera.
If you were to compare now to a year ago what do you think inflation is either in your purchasing costs or going in sell-through? I'd say on a relative basis less so I think that we're seeing a little bit less inflation than we probably did a year ago.
And keep in mind also that when we talk about prices being higher that's somewhat inflation-related there's also quality of product.
There's innovation and technology enhancements that are being made to the products that create some level of inflation albeit separate from commodity.
But overall we're seeing probably a little bit less inflation now than we were last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just lastly AP to inventory steady at 109%.
Is it fair to say that now we've sort of reached a steady state there? Yes.
I think that our inventory turn is relatively flat.
I think that we've had good leverage on AP to inventory.
And as we have mentioned a couple of quarters ago we expect it to be around this number.
It does have opportunity to improve but this is probably a pretty good level.
Our next question is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bill is it okay if I ask a question besides weather? Yes that would be fantastic.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I wanted to talk about a competitive issue.
O'Reilly has indicated that it is looking to grow its private brand mix presumably to help improve its do-it-yourself competitiveness.
And I think they're around 33% of their revenues today.
Can you remind us if AutoZone is still at 50% on your private brand? Or have you been growing that of late? Yes.
We've been growing it but not on a material percentage of the business basis.
But it continues to be a very important part of our offering.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The other change that O'Reilly was alluding to was expanding the radius around its stores where it measures vehicle registration data I guess further enhancing its parts mix for late-model vehicles over a larger number of vehicles.
Can you compare that to Zone's strategy in how you're customizing your mix of inventory to target that Commercial customer? Yes.
I think the big thing for us is as we continue to further penetrate the Commercial market we continue to find opportunities in both our satellite stores and our hub stores to expand the mix.
In very few instances have we expanded it to a point that we felt like we went too far.
Many times we expanded only to turn around and come back 6 to 12 months later and expand it again and have just as much upside as we had before.
So I think our point of view is the farther we penetrate the Commercial market it -- we basically increase the size of the market the more we penetrate it.
And that allows us to productively add inventory more and more.
And the funny thing is every time we add "Commercial or late-model products " we see significant amounts of sales on the DIY side of the business.
So it very much helps the productivity of our overall model.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And one last question.
You were talking about the seasonality of your failure business and that peaks during your third quarter.
Can you maybe give us a little bit of numbers around the failure contribution both on an annual basis as well as to how it shakes out by quarter? In terms of sales you're talking about Dan? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Our overall penetration of failure and maintenance hasn't really moved too much.
So when you think about its contribution overall by quarter it's been relatively consistent.
So that's probably the best way to look at it if you go back and look at it that way.
Our next question is from Aram Rubinson with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things also non-weather-related.
Around Commercial would you mind talking about kind of what would be conceptual limitations to your growth there? For example your pricing posture against your retail shelf pricing and how you're managing that; private label and how you're finding that whether that's a limitation to the Commercial customer; availability of course I know you've been bulking up on.
But just wondering kind of what are kind of the big limitations to reach where the other guys are in terms of penetration and then I had a quick follow-up.
Sure.
Ultimately I don't think there's any limitations other than limitations we put on ourselves.
I'll start with the price notion.
Clearly for our best customers we have differentiated pricing versus what we have in our retail customers.
Our pricing seems to be well-accepted in the marketplace.
I don't see that as any limitation.
As far as our private label brand penetration the way I always discuss this is if we had more national brands we might be able to accelerate our growth faster than we are otherwise today.
But the same would've been said in the retail business 20 25 years ago that if we would have the national brands then we would've been able to grow more rapidly.
I'm very pleased with the progression that we have in our business.
I think our product offering provides great high-quality products at great prices backed by good warranties.
And I think the longer we go the more we see that the market is very accepting of those private labels.
What was the third item? I forgot.
Research Division</strong> Just around availability and...
I think we've addressed the availability thing.
And as I've said the more we address it the more we realize we have farther to go particularly with the hub stores.
And as I mentioned we spend a lot of time talking about the hub stores.
And the fact that we still have over 50 of them that aren't the size or in the location that we want that'll be a nice upside for us to be able to help both sides of our customers going forward.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just follow up with a question on margin.
I know you mentioned you're much more margin dollar-sensitive than margin rate but I'm sure you still look at your competitors on a margin rate basis just for comparison.
And both of them are creeping up pretty much near 50% not very far from where you are.
And considering your mix let's say is more advantaged both in private label from the mix of ALLDATA or just for more retail business versus Commercial I would think there'd be a couple hundred basis points advantage that you might have on rate.
Can you speak to that or if you're seeing other competitors that are really keeping you limiting that upside? Yes.
I think trying to look at the specific gross margin rates of competitors is very challenging because there's very different elements in there.
You don't know what's going on with shrink you don't know what going on -- our distribution strategies are different.
So looking at the macro number to me is challenging.
What we look at is as how is our pricing versus the competitive marketplace.
And we want to make sure that we are providing a great value for the price that we're offering our customers.
And we seem to see that on both the sectors we're doing just fine.
Our next question is from Adam Sindler with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Actually all of my questions have now just been answered.
Our next question is from David Gober with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Shaun Kolnick on for Dave.
With the record number of programs up in the quarter did you open any programs specifically in one region? Or was it pretty evenly spread across the country? It was very evenly spread across the country.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly is there any update on the new labor system being rolled out this year? No I think it's in pilot stages right now and we're going to -- I'm sure we'll have to make some refinements to it.
But then we'll be rolling it out as we move through the quarter and on into the first part of next year.
All right.
Before we conclude the call I'd like to take a moment to reiterate that our business model remains solid.
We remain excited about our growth prospects for the year.
We cannot take anything for granted as we understand that our customers have alternatives.
Our culture remains our key point of differentiation from our competition and we must not lose sight of the importance of basic store execution in order to remain successful.
We have a solid plan for the fourth quarter of 2012 and our team is positioned to succeed.
But I want to stress that this is a marathon and not a sprint.
As we will continue to focus on the basics and never take our eye off of optimizing long-term shareholder value we are confident AutoZone will continue to be incredibly successful.
We'd also like to wish everyone a happy and safe Memorial Day.
It is important that we recognize our U.S.
servicemen and women who have made the ultimate sacrifice while serving our country and also honor those past and present for their dedicated service on our behalf.
We thank you for participating in today's call.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the AutoZone conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
This conference call will discuss AutoZone's fourth quarter financial results.
Bill Rhodes the company's Chairman President and CEO will be making a short presentation on the highlights of the quarter.
The conference call will end promptly at 10 a.m.
Central time 11 a.m.
Eastern time.
Before Mr.
Rhodes begins the company has requested that you listen to the following statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use words such as believe anticipate should intend plan will expect estimate project positioned strategy and similar expressions.
These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends current conditions expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including without limitation: credit market conditions; the impact of recessionary conditions; competition; product demand; the ability to hire and retain qualified employees; consumer debt levels; inflation; weather; raw material costs of our suppliers; energy prices; war and the prospect of war including terrorist activity; availability of consumer transportation; construction delays; access to available and feasible financing; and changes in laws or regulations.
Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 27 2011 and these risk factors should be read carefully.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone's Fiscal 2012 Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
With me today are Bill Giles Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Store Development and IT; and Brian Campbell Vice President and [ph] Treasurer Investor Relations and Tax.
Regarding the fourth quarter I hope you've had an opportunity to read our press release and learn about the quarter's results.
If not the press release along with slides complementing our comments today is available on our website www.autozoneinc.com.
Please click on Quarterly Earnings Conference Calls to see them.
To begin this morning I want to thank all AutoZoners across the globe for another very solid quarter and strong fiscal year.
This is the first time in our history that we've had AutoZoners living outside of North America.
We now have AutoZoners working on 2 new continents: South America with our upcoming first store opening in Brazil; and in Germany with our recent launch of ALLDATA Europe.
We welcome these new AutoZoners to this great team and we look forward to working closely with them to capitalize on the tremendous opportunities in these new geographies.
This quarter marked our 24th consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings per share growth.
We're very pleased with our ability to consistently deliver strong EPS growth through our financial model of steady mid-single-digit growth in EBIT dollars or better along with high single-digit reductions in our diluted share count.
Our goal quarter-over-quarter continues to be to provide consistency to our shareholders our AutoZoners and our customers.
We feel this targeted consistency in both financial performance as well as execution of our key initiatives results in stability and confidence for our stockholders and our AutoZoners.
Two weeks from today we'll be hosting our National Sales Meeting here in Memphis where we'll celebrate our best-performing AutoZoners and celebrate our successes.
As usual the new objectives for 2013 will be introduced during this session.
We have some very exciting growth opportunities ahead in the new year and we're all very excited about the opportunity to discuss them with our field organization.
Next I'd like to highlight our sales results for this past quarter.
Our sales were up 4.6% and our same-store sales were up 2.1%.
This quarter's same-store sales results compared to last year's fourth quarter comp result of 4.5%.
While same-store sales results are a combination of both our Retail and Commercial businesses I should point out our total Commercial sales were up 16% over last year's fourth quarter driven by a combination of existing programs and the addition of 394 programs over the last fiscal year.
Our sales performance for the quarter was a little softer than we were expecting when we began the quarter.
Our results were generally consistent from one month to the next.
However the sequential results were not what defined this quarter's sales results.
There were substantial differences in sales by regions.
This regional discrepancy led to the difference in same-store sales results in this year's Q4 from last.
This year the stores in the areas we'll define as the Northeast Great Lakes and Plains underperformed materially compared to the rest of our store base.
While representing about 1/3 of our total store base their results affected our overall story in both Retail and Commercial.
To put some context on the separation of results while our comp -- our overall comp was 2.1% for the quarter compared with 4.5% last year stores for all other regions exceeded their equivalent same-store sales results from last year.
As we analyze our results regionally we believe that our initiatives are having a positive impact.
The challenges we have experienced in the Northeast Plains and Great Lakes appear more macro in nature and less about specific actions we or any of our competitors have taken.
This part of the country's sales results are behaving in a different manner.
Additionally based on industry sales data that's available results show we continue to outpace our total competitive base in both DIY and Commercial businesses.
Speaking in regard to our DIY business.
As we've discussed in the past we break product categories into failure maintenance and discretionary purchases.
As we've also said previously maintenance products have not had the sales growth the other sectors have had this year.
Maintenance routinely represents about 40% of any quarter sales and this category for us has been growing over the last year in the low single-digit range versus the failure and discretionary categories growing in the mid-single-digit range.
The products we sell categorized as maintenance are typically those an owner's manual says should be changed out at some select mileage interval.
As we reviewed at a more detailed level we noticed this maintenance category weakness was pronounced in the 3 areas of the country previously mentioned and that was the primary contributor to our overall same-store sales weakness for those regions and the country.
This past quarter the 3 regions we've mentioned had much weaker-than-expected sales specifically in this category.
And even more specifically just a handful of merchandise lines made up the primary reason for these challenging same-store sales results not just the negative maintenance results but the overall negative results for these regions.
Excluding these categories our results in these areas and in total would have been consistent with other regions.
Now in saying this I should point out there are always better and worse-performing regions across the country.
And not so coincidentally we usually don't discuss those items with you.
But because the results this quarter were so distinctive on a geographic basis we decided to call this out.
These categories to probably no one's surprise are weather-sensitive categories.
It would be easy for us to say a mild winter and lack of wear would cause these parts to not be replaced during the summer.
But it might not be the entire answer.
We don't exactly know the answer and we believe the only way we'll know for sure is time time to compare these regions' results against the upcoming winter and spring.
At this point we don't believe any sales correlations to miles driven new car sales or gas prices in these parts of the country exist to explain the sales fall-off.
This morning we do want to call out some great milestones achieved this past quarter.
We opened our 5 000th store in Alaska this quarter entering our 49th state.
We also opened our 3 000th domestic Commercial program as we now have Commercial programs in approximately 65% of our domestic stores.
We also completed 18 additional hub projects taking our hub resets for the year to 40.
Including last year's 60 hub projects have been completed.
We continue to be quite pleased with the sales benefits from the reset hubs as we have increased the size and/or improved the location allowing us to expand the number of SKUs offered on a same-day basis in the market.
These SKUs have benefited both Retail and Commercial customers.
Regarding Mexico we opened our 300th store this quarter and finished with 321 stores.
Sales in our other businesses achieved very solid sales results.
Our ALLDATA and E-Commerce businesses continued to perform well increasing 6.3% over last year.
There are great opportunities for E-Commerce sales growth on both a business-to-business basis and to an individual customer or B2C.
We continue to remain bullish on our industry sales growth opportunities on both Retail and Commercial over the long term.
As the vehicle population continues to age and consumers continue to look for good values while maintaining their vehicles we see AutoZone's opportunity to sell to these customers only growing.
Now let me review our highlights regarding execution on our operating theme for 2012 1TEAM Driving our Future.
The key priorities for the year were Great People Providing Great Service! profitably growing our Commercial business leveraging the Internet and hub store improvements.
On the Retail front this past quarter under the Great People Providing Great Service! theme we continued with our intense focus on improving execution.
We continued to invest in training our store AutoZoners.
We continued to enhance and update our Z-net software and we began to roll out our new labor management system that will replace our legacy system.
In regards to Commercial we opened 107 programs during the quarter and ended the year with an additional 394 programs.
This easily exceeds last year's 235 openings.
We continue to see Commercial as a material sales growth driver for us for many years to come.
Our results continue to provide us confidence to be aggressive in adding additional resources and new programs to this important growth initiative.
Finally in regard to initiatives I'd like to highlight the progress that we've made on our hub stores this quarter.
This past quarter we expanded or relocated 18 hubs allowing us to expand our assortment in these markets and continue to increase our yes percentage for both Retail and Commercial.
As part proliferation continues to expand and vehicle technology advances continue to occur in many cases it results in more inventory dollars and lower turns.
We continue to see the hub store as our central strategy in expanding our distribution abilities going forward.
We believe our hub strategy allows us to have very strong local market coverage available for the same-day delivery and we believe our distribution strategy is highly efficient.
We have been and will continue to add incremental inventory to our local market hub stores to meet this demand.
The constant SKU proliferation in our industry has driven the remodels of existing hubs we've been talking about this year.
I'll take a moment now to talk more specifically about our fourth quarter performance in more detail.
Our domestic same-store sales grew 2.1% for the quarter.
Our fourth quarter which ended August 25 did experience some variability in month-to-month sales results.
But the differences were not the story for our results this quarter though regional inconsistencies were much more the story.
This separation in results began in April for us and continued through the end of the quarter.
As we've said previously the category of sales we define as maintenance had the most challenging comparison on the quarter.
With approximately 40% of our sales in this classification sales of this category were soft particularly in a subset of geographic regions.
Although it's not possible to know with certainty the cause the simplest explanation we have to these results is it appears mostly weather driven.
As we said previously weather always evens out over the long term so we never get too excited on the upside or downside.
We do not believe that the softness was due to any actions we or our competitors took.
This regional difference in results carried through to our Commercial business as well.
The magnitude of the slowdown was similar across both businesses on this regional basis.
However we continue to be very excited about our growth opportunities in the Commercial business.
We continue to open Commercial programs very aggressively across the country.
Our small market share and current growth trajectory from our newer programs gives us confidence in our future to build out potential.
We will continue to invest to grow our Commercial business and penetrate a larger percentage of our existing store base.
I'd like to also mentioned the other businesses.
ALLDATA and E-Commerce had another fine quarter up 6.3% in sales from this time last year.
This portion of our business while small as a percentage of our overall sales mix continues to experience faster sales growth than the auto parts stores.
Over the last year we have been very focused on leveraging the Internet across our businesses.
We've been expanding our product offerings and aggressively building our capabilities to serve our business-to-business customers more effectively.
An example of this is our launch of the ALLDATA product in Europe.
While there are many stories on the economic challenges facing Europe we remain very upbeat on the sales potential in this area of the world.
There are competitors to ALLDATA there today but we feel there's a real point of differentiation with our product.
While in the very early innings of tapping into these growing customer segments that utilize the Internet for researching or ordering their parts and products we continue to have a healthy runway for growth by leveraging the Internet across the enterprise.
We should also highlight another strong performance in return on invested capital as we were able to finish 2012 at 33%.
This statistic has improved each quarter this past year reflecting our efforts to efficiently use the capital we deploy.
It is important to reinforce that we will always maintain our diligence regarding capital stewardship as the capital is our investor's capital.
Before I pass the discussion over to Bill Giles to talk about our financial results I'd like to state how excited we are to start our new fiscal year.
We felt 2012 was a very good year marking our third consecutive year of comparable 20%-plus EPS growth.
As our business model allows us superb sightlines into cash generating capabilities we feel we can have a very solid new year.
We remain deliberate in our expense and capital management in order to deliver consistent financial performance while positioning the business to succeed for years to come.
Now I'll turn it over to Bill.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
To start this morning let me take a few moments to talk more specifically about our Retail Commercial and Mexico results for the quarter.
For the quarter total auto parts sales increased 4.6% on top of last year's fourth quarter's growth of 8%.
This segmentation includes our domestic Retail and Commercial businesses and our Mexico stores.
During the fourth quarter nationally unleaded gas prices started out at $3.79 a gallon and ended the quarter at $3.78 a gallon.
Last year gas prices decreased $0.34 per gallon during the fourth quarter starting at $3.97 and ending at $3.63 a gallon.
We continue to believe gas prices have a real impact on our customers' abilities to maintain their vehicles and the more recent higher prices are unfortunate.
During the quarter prices had dipped at the end of June to the $3.40 a gallon range nationally but increased sequentially starting in July.
Gas seems to be comfortably locked in this mid to high $3 a gallon range for unleaded.
At the same time with gas prices remaining at these overall higher levels we continue to communicate through our marketing messages to our customers the steps they can take to improve their gas mileage.
Miles driven were down 0.4% in April up 2.3% in May and then up 0.4% in June.
Year to date through June miles driven were up 1.1%.
The other statistic we highlight is the number of 7-year-old and older vehicles on the road which continues to trend in our industry's favor.
We also recognize that the impact of miles driven on cars over 10 years old the current average is much different than on newer cars in terms of wear and tear.
For the trailing 4 quarters total auto parts sales per average square foot were $263.
This statistic continues to set the pace for the rest of the industry and this metric is up 2.1% over last year's fourth quarter.
This impressive improvement is a key contributor to our record EBIT margin percent and our record return on invested capital.
For the quarter total Commercial sales increased 15.9% and for the quarter Commercial represented 15.6% of our total sales and grew $59 million over last year's fourth quarter.
Last year's Commercial sales mix percent was 14.1%.
As we have said previously overall we've been very pleased with the progress we are making in our Commercial business both operationally and financially and we remain on track with our plans.
There remains ample opportunities for us to continue to improve many facets of our operations and offerings and therefore we are optimistic about the future of this business.
We believe we can grow revenues in existing stores and we will continue to open additional Commercial programs.
This past quarter we opened 107 new programs versus 104 in our fiscal fourth quarter of last year.
We expanded the number of stores with the Commercial program by 3.6% during this quarter and 14.8% over last year's fourth quarter ended.
We now have our Commercial program in 3 053 stores supported by 149 hub stores.
Approximately 33% of our programs are 3 years old or younger.
With only 65% of our domestic stores having a Commercial program and our average revenue per program materially below several of our competitors we believe there is ample opportunity for additional program growth aside from improved productivity opportunities in current programs.
In regard to the current quarter this was the first in 9 quarters we fell below a 20% growth rate.
The effect of the 3 regions Bill mentioned earlier in the call had an impact on our Commercial results as well in fact more so than on the DIY business.
These markets were a full 15% lower in growth rate than last year in Q4.
Our other regions were in line with last year's results.
Again a similar subset of merchandise drove this material decline.
And we feel like weather probably had some impact on these results certainly not all but we believe if we experienced a more normal winter from a weather perspective coming up sales will improve in these markets.
In regard to our future we're focused on building upon the Commercial initiatives that have been in place for the last few years.
We continue to watch our sales force mature.
We're also enhancing training and introducing additional technology to optimize productivity of our sales force.
We've increased our efforts around analyzing customer purchasing trends and in-stock trends.
We feel our product distribution model is scalable going forward and we are continuing to attach [ph] additional enhancements to our offerings.
In addition to our focus on further developing and expanding our sales force we expect to continue adding additional late-model import and domestic coverage both in satellite and hub stores.
In what remains a validation of our ongoing strategy our Duralast brand continues to gain traction with our Commercial customers.
In summary we remain committed to our long-term growth strategy.
We have accelerated the growth of our Commercial programs having opened over 750 programs over the past 36 months a 33% increase.
We believe we are well positioned to grow this business and capture market share.
Our performance and current model demonstrate an ability to scale this business in a profitable manner.
We continue to be excited about our opportunities in this business.
Our Mexico stores continue to perform well.
We opened 24 new stores during the fourth quarter and finished the year with 42 new stores.
We currently have 321 stores in Mexico.
We remain resolute on our strategy to open stores at a steady pace while managing our Mexico business for the long run.
We have operated stores in Mexico now for over 13 years and we continue to see great opportunity for growth going forward.
Our returns and profit growth have been in line with our expectations.
Our efforts to open new stores in Brazil are progressing and we expect to open our first store during first quarter of 2013.
We've also expanded ALLDATA to Europe.
Both of these initiatives remain in the early stages and will be implemented in a measured fashion.
Neither should have a significant impact on our financial results over the midterm planning horizon.
Recapping our fourth quarter performance for the company in total our sales for the quarter were $2 764 000 000 an increase of 4.6% from last year's fourth quarter.
Domestic same-store sales or sales for stores opened more than 1 year were up 2.1% for the quarter.
Gross margin for the quarter was 51.8% of sales up 64 basis points compared to last year's fourth quarter.
The improvement in gross margin was attributable to higher margins on merchandise growth.
The increased merchandise margins were primarily due to lower acquisition costs.
In regards to inflation we've seen rising costs in commodity-related products throughout the year although at lower levels than last year.
However we have generally been able to pass along this cost inflation.
At this point we expect subdued producer pricing heading into the new year and therefore we feel costs will be predictable and manageable.
We will remain cognizant of future developments regarding inflation and we will make the appropriate adjustments should they arise.
Looking forward we continue to believe there remains opportunity for gross margin expansion within both the Retail and Commercial businesses.
However we do not manage to a target gross profit margin percentage.
As the growth of Commercial business has been a steady headwind on our overall gross margin rate for a few years we have to continuously work strategies to offset this.
Our primary focus remains growing absolute gross profit dollars and gross profit dollars in our total auto parts segment were up 5.9% for the quarter.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 31.6% of sales higher by 20 basis points from last year's fourth quarter.
The primary driver on the quarter's operating expenses as a percentage of sales were 45 basis points of deleverage in store payroll and 39 basis points of deleverage from higher self-insurance costs partially offset by lower incentive compensation.
This year self-insurance was a material headwind for us.
The exposure we're seeing in this area made up of medical workers' compensation auto and general liabilities remains a concern for us.
We believe what we've seen in these areas is extreme for us relative to past years and we continue to work to better manage these costs going into 2013.
While we've experienced higher operating expense percentage growth this past couple of years higher than our historic growth rates we've been deliberate with our expenditures.
We have purposely invested dollars in our strategic Retail and Commercial business initiatives to position the company for future sales and profit growth.
This organization takes great pride in the disciplined approach to managing our cost structure and leveraging our culture of thrift and we remain committed to appropriately managing expenses in line with our overall performance.
Our current expenditures have been made to better position our company for future growth a good example being the acceleration in opening Commercial programs.
We continue to believe we are well positioned to manage our cost structure for the foreseeable future.
Earnings before interest and taxes or EBIT for the quarter was $560 million up 6.9% over last year's fourth quarter.
Our EBIT margin improved to 20.3% or 44 basis points versus the previous year's fourth quarter.
Interest expense for the quarter was $58.1 million compared with $53.8 million in Q4 a year ago.
Debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $3 768 000 000 or approximately $417 million more than last year's fourth quarter balance of $3 352 000 000.
Our adjusted debt level metric finished the quarter at 2.5x EBITDAR.
While in any given quarter we may increase or decrease debt levels based on management's opinion regarding debt and equity market conditions we remain committed to both our investment-grade rating and our capital allocation strategy.
And share repurchases are an important element of that strategy.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 35.5% below last year's fourth quarter of 35.9%.
While the company's tax rate has benefited us the last few years finishing at approximately 36% on a full year basis we would like to let you know we expect our full year rate to be approximately 36.8% this upcoming year and most likely 37% in the first quarter.
These higher rates are due to the expiration of employee tax credits which have not yet been extended by Congress.
And we just want you to plan accordingly for a slightly higher rate in Q1.
Net income for the quarter of $324 million was up 7.4% versus the prior year's fourth quarter.
Our diluted share count of 38.3 million was down 8.9% from last year's fourth quarter.
The combination of these factors drove earnings per share for the quarter to $8.46 up 17.8% over the prior year's fourth quarter.
Relating to the cash flow statement for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2012 we generated $420 million of operating cash flow.
On a full year basis we generated $1 220 000 000 in operating cash flow.
Net fixed assets were up 7% versus last year and capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $150 million and reflected the additional expenditures required to open 96 new stores and relocate 2 stores this quarter also capital expenditures on existing stores out store remodel efforts and work on development of new stores for upcoming quarters.
For all of fiscal 2012 our CapEx was $378 million.
With the new stores opened we finished this past quarter with 4 685 stores in 49 states the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico and 321 stores in Mexico for a total store count of 5 006.
Depreciation totaled $66.7 million for the quarter versus last year's fourth quarter expense of $62.9 million.
With our excess cash flow we purchased -- we repurchased $480 million of AutoZone stock in the fourth quarter.
For the full year we purchased $1 363 000 000 of AutoZone stock.
We've now bought over $1 billion in stock in each of the last 4 years totaling approximately $5.3 billion in those 4 years.
At the end of the quarter we had $356 million remaining under our share buyback authorization.
We continue to view our share repurchase program as an attractive capital deployment strategy.
Accounts payable as a percent of gross inventory finished the quarter at 111% basically flat with last year's fourth quarter.
While we expect we have some room to increase this ratio going forward we expect the rate to increase at a modest rate.
Next I'd like to update you on our inventory levels in total and on a per-store basis.
We reported an inventory balance of $2.6 billion up 6.6% versus the Q4 ending balance last year.
Increased inventory reflects new store growth along with additional investment and coverage for select categories.
Inventory per store was up 2.5% basically in line with our 2.1% domestic same-store sales growth.
Finally as Bill previously mentioned our continued disciplined capital management approach resulted in return on invested capital for the trailing 4 quarters of 33%.
We have and will continue to make investments that we believe will generate returns that significantly exceed our cost of capital.
As the last point I'd like to point out that fiscal year 2013 has some extra week or a 53rd week in it.
More specifically the extra week will fall during the fourth quarter.
Already our longest quarter in number of weeks this upcoming year's fourth quarter will have an extra week taking us to 17 total weeks in Q4.
As a result our year will end next year on August 31.
Last time we had an extra week in our financials was fiscal 2008.
We would encourage each of you to review the impact this extra week had on our performance in Q4 2008 to understand the order of magnitude this extra week will have on our fourth quarter and fiscal 2013 results.
Now I'll turn it back to Bill Rhodes.
Thank you Bill.
Our company has been extremely successful over the long run.
That success can be attributed to our approach of leveraging our unique and powerful culture and focusing intensely on meeting and exceeding the wants needs and desires of our customers.
Our approach is one of consistency where flawless execution is a key competitive advantage.
To have that high level of execution it is critical to have consistent strategies consistent communications and to consistently live up to our pledge and values.
This organization has and will continue to do just that.
I'm very proud of this organization and more importantly our incredible AutoZoners now across the globe who work tirelessly to continue to deliver great service and great results.
Before we conclude the call I wanted to take this opportunity to reflect on fiscal 2012.
Our organization continues to build on the successes of the last several years and we were able to deliver great results for the year highlighted by our third consecutive year of 20%-plus earnings per share growth.
We're very pleased with our accomplishments and I'd like to review a few of those in recognition of the dedication passion and commitment of our AutoZoners.
We grew both our Retail and Commercial businesses this past year all while continuing to gain share.
We opened our 5 000th store last month entering our 49th state.
The store is located in Alaska and we couldn't be more excited about being there.
I met some outstanding AutoZoners and I know our culture of WOW! Customer Service is being fully embraced in Alaska.
We opened our 300th store in Mexico this year really an amazing success story.
We've done it all organically.
From our first store 13 years ago to today our product offering is outstanding across the country and I couldn't be prouder of our past accomplishments or more excited about our future potential for growth.
We opened our 3 000th U.S.
Commercial program this past quarter.
This was a program that experienced slow growth for many years here at AutoZone.
Not today.
We grew our program count by 394 this year alone.
And with such a small share of the industry's business we remain very excited about our opportunities heading into 2013.
I also want to congratulate our ALLDATA and E-Commerce teams.
The strides we've been making with these businesses have been material to our overall operating model.
And now with the launch of ALLDATA Europe we have the opportunity to service an entirely new set of customers.
And as evidenced by the upcoming opening of our first store in Brazil AutoZone continues to break new ground and find new opportunities to leverage our terrific business model and our culture in new geographies.
In regard to the numbers we grew EBIT 9% on top of last year's 13% and we achieved another record return on invested capital of 33%.
Congratulations AutoZoners.
Your efforts drove these successes.
As we said earlier on this call our results this past quarter were solid but not as good as we would have liked.
We experienced some unique regional performance differences that had a material impact on our results this past quarter.
Clearly our businesses experienced a slowdown over the last several months and we believe a significant amount of that slowdown is likely due to the mild winter we experienced last year.
But that may not be the entire story.
The bottom line is we can't control the weather and market conditions will fluctuate from time to time.
Our charge is to optimize our performance regardless of market conditions and continue to ensure we are investing in the key initiatives that will drive our long-term performance.
In the end delivering 2.1% same-store sales earnings per share growth of 17.8% and record return on invested capital of 33% for the quarter are great results.
As we look to the future the recent slowdown in industry sales is not lost on us.
We believe some portion of it is due to last winter's mild weather but that likely isn't the entire story.
Today we are uncertain if the slowdown we have experienced is temporary or an indication that the industry is slowing somewhat.
We won't know until we annualize last winter.
What we do know is we have very effectively managed this business through good times and bad as evidenced by our 24 consecutive quarters of double-digit earnings-per-share growth.
As we think about our model we grow new store square footage at an annual rate of approximately 4% and we are growing our Commercial business at an accelerated rate.
Therefore we look to routinely grow EBIT dollars in the mid-single-digit range or better in times of strength.
And we leverage our very predictable and strong cash flow to repurchase shares enhancing our earnings per share comfortably into double digits.
This model has been quite successful for an extended period of time.
Finally this morning I'd like to announce our theme for 2013 and discuss our key priorities for the new year.
The new theme will be 1TEAM Delivering Wow.
You will notice our theme and our key priorities haven't changed much and that is intentional.
We continue to be committed to a consistent approach that leads to flawless execution.
Our key priorities for 2013 are Great People Providing Great Service! profitably grow our Commercial business leverage the Internet hub strategy with relocations and expansions and leverage information technology to improve the customer experience and optimize efficiency.
Let me conclude by saying our financial and operational performance is strong in 2012.
I want to again thank and congratulate our entire organization for their dedication to our customers fellow AutoZoners stockholders and communities.
Our approach remains consistent.
We are focused on succeeding in 2013 and we are optimistic and excited about the new year.
Thank you for your time.
Now we'd like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Gary Balter with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just one question and a follow-up.
Without spending too much time on the weather the impact it was very helpful to hear your discussion of the 3 regions versus the other 7.
Given it sounds like most of this is weather would you expect if we have a normal winter that business will actually slow before it gets better because of the comparison against the easier winter last year.
Is that complicated? Gary I don't know that we're focused that intensely on what's going to happen over the immediate short term.
What we're more worried -- more focused on is what do we think the long-term trajectory of this business is.
And as we highlighted in our prepared remarks we clearly believe that there is some portion of our softness is due to the weather the lack of winter that we had in Great Lakes and Northeast last year.
We would anticipate annualizing that late winter early spring.
As far as whether or not it gets more challenging between now and then we didn't do a great job of forecasting how our business was going to trend during the summer.
We have not been through this before.
We had such a mild winter.
And frankly we performed a little worse than we anticipated in the fourth quarter.
So I have a hard time projecting what's going to happen in the first quarter.
What I do know is we need to stick to our game plan.
We need to obviously manage our expenses and capital very closely but this is a time where we just need to stick to our plan and be consistent.
Research Division</strong> But it sounds like putting aside the weather side of it you are sticking to it and the business was pretty solid or...
That's correct yes yes.
Again 2.1% comps with 17.8% earnings per share growth that's a pretty great result.
Research Division</strong> And then just your gross margin has been a standout each -- like all year and was particularly strong this quarter.
And you talked about product acquisition costs.
Is there also a mix issue? And as we look at product acquisition cost is that something that we carry into 2013? Like what are you thinking about gross margin going forward? Yes we were actually very pleased with gross margin.
I think the merchandising organization did a very good job of managing and improving our gross margin rates overall.
And it was highlighted by lower acquisition cost.
So as we kind of look through -- forward to 2013 we remain relatively optimistic that we can continue to improve gross margin as we said in both sides of the business overall.
Our next question is from Michael Lasser with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like sales fell short of your expectations.
Does that mean you're managing the operating expenses side of the business to around a 3% comp? And if that's the case would you recalibrate that? If you don't see sales accelerate once the colder weather kicks in? Yes I wouldn't say we're managing necessarily to a 3% comp.
I think some of the things that we tried to articulate throughout the call is that we're very focused on some of the key initiatives that we have in place.
And so the hub stores the expansion of the Commercial programs we believe those are all very important and create a very strong foundation for the organization going forward.
So we're not managing it to 3%.
Now having said that we think we have historically been very good about managing our expenses in response to our overall sales trends.
But we're going to continue to focus on our initiatives particularly since we don't really see a fundamental change in the business today.
We think that there's really nothing that's changed with our consumers significantly other than some of the things that Bill talked about relative to the regional disparities that we've had across the country.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And as a follow-up we're seeing one of your competitors move their distribution systems to look more like the other competitor so having a deeper availability of parts within a quicker delivery time.
Do you think if the industry moves in that direction that you could be at a disadvantage over the long term if you only have a hub model for your distribution infrastructure? Yes I mean the way we look at it is that and Bill talked about it on his prepared remarks earlier the hub model allows us to have same-day delivery.
We're trying to get inventory forward deployed into the marketplace on a more efficient basis and leveraging those 149 hubs in order for us to have inventory that we can say yes to the customer at that day.
We also have through our vendor direct program overnight possibilities through our vendors being -- supporting us by delivering product on an overnight basis.
So we think that we've got a model that is most effective and efficient both as we go forward.
You've seen us continue to invest in the hub stores.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just last quick one.
In the 7 markets that outperformed this quarter were those -- was the comp trend in those markets pretty consistent throughout the quarter? Or was there some months that were better than others? I think overall our performance both in those markets and overall it fluctuated some.
But it wasn't a material story one way or the other.
Our next question is from Alan Rifkin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> But just one follow-up if I may.
You spoke about the difficulties in the maintenance category particularly in the 3 regions.
Would you be able to give us some color on how both the failure and discretionary parts of the business performed? Yes.
I think the failure continued to perform generally consistent with how it was [ph].
Actually discretionary has been a little bit positive -- more positive in the last quarter or 2.
And I think that's because our team in the discretionary parts of the business have really done some great work and are improving our businesses in those areas.
But the big story obviously was the maintenance items.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Bill collectively for the stores that are supported by the 3 000-plus desks or the 149 hubs is the performance of those stores across all of the regions materially better than the stores that are not yet supported by one or both of those programs? Well the stores that aren't in the 3 000 they don't have the Commercial programs.
So they might do just a little snippet of business but nothing of any significance.
As part of the stores that are supported by the hub stores one of the things we've done is we've significantly expanded the number of stores that are serviced by the hub store.
Some of them are serviced on a same-day basis the vast majority of them and some of them are serviced on an overnight basis when they're in very remote areas.
We're continuing to work to try to reduce the number of stores that are on an overnight basis.
And when we take them from an overnight basis to a same-day basis we see a material change in the amount of products that they're able to sell.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one point of clarification if I may.
With respect to inflation you said that you're still seeing inflationary benefits albeit they're not as great as what you saw before right? You're not seeing deflation across the board are you? I would overall no.
But on a category-by-category basis I'm sure there's some categories that have experienced some deflation.
I think the big story on inflation is last year in the fourth quarter we had some very significant inflation due to the run-up in commodities.
And now as we've lapped that we don't have the same trajectory and it has impacted us on our average ticket growth.
One thing we didn't really hit on is our customer count trends have generally been fairly consistent with the last 6 quarters or so.
The real negative benefit [ph] has been in average ticket and a lot of that was not changes that happened this year but the lack of the significant inflation that we had last year once we annualized it.
Our next question is from Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So I just want to clarify a couple of facts that you said.
You said that the better areas of the country the other 7 markets comped above the 4.5 you did last year in 4Q and that the underperforming markets were 15 points lower than those markets? Yes.
Just to clarify I would say that on the DIY side that the markets were consistent with the prior year.
And their performance was consistent.
You indicated they were higher than I think the 4.5 or whatever.
They were consistent with how they performed last year.
And so we're not breaking out exactly what each region did from a comp store sales performance.
And then on the Commercial side 15% below not 15 -- yes 15% below.
Research Division</strong> So Advance had talked about some of the same regions comping 600 to 900-basis-point deceleration is it fair to say overall that maybe the better markets were high single digit better from a comp perspective? I guess the way I would look at it is that those 3 regions performed differently than the rest of the country and materially performed lower than they did in the previous year.
The other regions performed consistent with the way they performed the previous year.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then in terms of the maintenance product categories and you mentioned that whatever in the owner's manual requires regular replacement.
So presumably that things like batteries wipers and exhaust is there anything that we'd be missing there? And curious what you have seen in those underperforming markets in categories like oil change and break replacement.
Presumably these aren't necessarily weather-affected products and maybe there's some clues there in terms of what's going on in the market.
Yes.
I think first of all the brake business has been a challenging business for us and we do attribute some of it to the weather.
You think about what happens in the winter when you have snow and ice there's worsening of -- they have to remove the snow and ice.
There's corrosion that occurs that impacts the brake pads and the rotors specifically and then there's also bad road conditions which will impact things like our chassis business.
So I think there's a lot of areas where the weather does impact it.
Clearly oil changes aren't a significant one and our oil change business is not -- it's done fine but it's not one of the standout categories where we're challenged.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then one final one just to play devil's advocate on the hub versus DC supply chain.
Do you think that some of what you're seeing in terms of not having a challenge using the hub network is a result of just having the lowest -- lower Commercial sales per store in that as you build that up that potentially you would have to invest in more DC assets? Yes the challenge that I have with that basic premise is it's not about overnight delivery.
It's about same-day delivery.
And so our focus is about getting same-day delivery on a multiple time per day basis.
So we can get products in there overnight.
We just don't have to run a distribution truck to the market.
We do it via FedEx.
So we'll see as we progress.
Yes we are smaller than everybody else.
I think we're also growing much more rapidly than everybody else.
I think we are very pleased with the trajectory that we have in that business and our strategy.
And I'm sure we'll learn things as we go forward.
But our expectation is that our distribution strategy will remain the same.
The hubs have been an integral part of our -- in the build on our hub to our overall distribution strategy.
And then the way we do it today is very very cost efficient and we also think being cost efficient is always incredibly important.
Our next question is from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So you alluded to the notion that what you're seeing might not be all about weather.
And to the extent that it's not I'd like to delve just a bit deeper into conditions in the 3 regions that are a little bit softer and ask you whether based on what you see there've been many macro factors such as car age in those regions car sales in those regions potentially being stronger.
I'm just looking for something other than the weather that might be different in those parts of the country that would help explain what's going on.
Yes Matt.
And we've been looking at this very hard.
And admittedly as we've said in our prepared remarks we don't have all the answers.
But we've looked at it very closely and very close in those regions based upon category performance.
And every time we look at categories that are impacted by winter weather those are the categories that are seeing the degradation.
The other categories continue to perform fine.
So that indicates to me that it's not being driven by age of vehicle.
One of the challenges that we clearly do have is our consumer continues to be pressured.
It's been a long economic cycle and particularly the low end consumer is continuing to have very difficult challenges.
Could they be deferring some of those maintenance items longer? Yes but I don't know that they're necessarily that much more impacted in the Midwest and the Northeast than they are in the Southeast for instance.
Research Division</strong> Bill second question.
As you look at the ticket pressure I guess to clarify is that happening across the country? Or is the ticket pressure more focused in those regions? And if you could disaggregate the ticket pressure if not quantitatively then at least directionally into deflationary or disinflation and then maybe any kind of mix shift from best to good and better? Sure.
The average ticket deterioration it's still very positive but it's not as positive as it's been in the past.
And the pressure on that is really not what's happened this year.
It was much more what happened last year where we had some significant inflation in commodity prices.
And then there are a few places where there was a drastic change.
For instance our 134 refrigerant had a massive price reduction in the marketplace this year and that rolled through particularly on the Commercial side of the business and pressured us.
You had a second part that I forgot.
Research Division</strong> Is there anything on mix for example? I know you have good better best across the board.
Are you seeing customers move down market across assortments? Yes.
We are not seeing that at all.
I think our mix continues to be very similar to the way that it's been over time.
We introduce certain mix category in certain categories.
And we'll see a change when that happens.
But when we see the mix offering being consistent then our sales continue to be very similar.
Research Division</strong> And then finally for Mr.
Giles just a very quick clarification.
So the 7 markets that did well you said did better than they did in the fourth quarter last year.
How did those markets do relative to the May quarter please? The May quarter? They were up a little bit.
Flattish I guess is what I would say.
It's probably the easiest way to say it they were flat.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So they didn't deteriorate the way the other 3 did? Yes.
That's the point of the question right.
They didn't deteriorate like the other 3 did as much.
Our next question is from Kate McShane with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Going back to one of the previous questions with regard to discretionary versus maintenance I know you highlighted that discretionary was doing a little bit more in the 3 challenged regions because of what your team has been doing.
So is there an opportunity to employ maybe some of the same strategies that's been working in discretionary onto the maintenance category? Yes let me make sure and clarify.
I didn't say that the discretionary were doing in those 3 regions.
They're doing better overall.
But the things that we've done in the discretionary business -- number one our discretionary business was very challenged in 2008 to 2011.
So our team is working very hard to come up with new ideas new products new presentation techniques.
And most of the tactics that they're deploying are very different tactics than you would deploy on trying to sell maintenance items.
Number one there's no presentation of them.
They're all behind the counter.
And the product extensions aren't as innovative if you -- I would say.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then if I could just ask one question on your Commercial program acceleration.
I know that's been a big strategic focus for the company.
But I wondered if competitively if you can highlight anything that's changed that maybe has made it a little bit easier or anything that's changed in the environment to help you accelerate some of these -- the expansion of the Commercial programs.
I don't think so.
I think what's helped us to be able to accelerate the Commercial program are the investments that we've made in our overall infrastructure.
I mean we've got territory sales managers out there that continue to mature in their positions.
We've added technology to help improve their productivity.
We've added more inventory into the marketplace.
The hub stores are a key part of that.
So we're certainly far more competitive today than we were 3 years ago and you can see by the number of programs that we opened this past year that we have a lot more confidence in our overall model and our ability to capture market share going forward.
Our next question is from John Lawrence with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly Bill on the expense line going forward.
You talked about the tax rate.
Some of the headwinds that you've seen last several quarters on the insurance line et cetera how should we think about that going forward especially in light of the comps that could be a little softer? That's a good question John.
I think on the insurance one certainly that was a headwind for the last 4 5 quarters.
We continue to work that one and hope to make some improvements on that.
When you think about expenses overall we expect to continue to be prudent relative to how we're going to manage our expenses.
And so where we have opportunities to reduce expenses we're going to do that.
And at the same time we're going to continue to manage payroll appropriately as well.
And so as we have some softness in sales this quarter obviously we deleveraged payroll little bit.
And so we'll continue to manage that.
The most important thing and obviously everybody always says this is that we want to make sure that we continue to provide the best customer service we can and customer-facing expenses are the last thing to cut.
But in the meantime there are always opportunities within our organization and our organization is very focused on that right now and making sure that we manage our expenses appropriately.
Research Division</strong> And last question.
As far as ALLDATA's entry overseas what could we read into that longer term Bill as far as understanding that marketplace? Well I think number one ALLDATA and the team in ALLDATA has really done great job since we've owned them since 1996.
They've got a great differentiated product in the North American market and now we're going to take it to Europe.
As far as whether or not ALLDATA gives us insights into Western Europe in particular for new store growth or expansion on an international basis I wouldn't really say that is driving it at all.
We are just now planting a flag in Brazil and that will be our first time to have stores outside of North America.
We're very focused on how do we go down there with a small test and ensure that this model can expand even further.
So that's our thinking at this point in time.
But I was very -- I was over there last week at Automechanika for the launch of ALLDATA Europe.
Number one we've got a great team over there both the team that's over there selling the product and the team that developed the product in the United States.
But most importantly the customer reactions to the live product at Automechanika were very exciting.
And it's a very differentiated product over there so we're bullish on how it will do.
It's not going to be a material contributor to our financial results in the short term but it can be a very nice business over the long term.
Our next question is from Mike Baker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So you talked about some things going on perhaps above and beyond weather.
One thing I wanted to ask about is your thoughts on the aging of the vehicles and I realized that the growth -- you're seeing growth in 7-year-old cars or older.
My question is this: are you seeing that growth slow down at all? And then looking at even older cars 10 11 years old are you seeing growth there? But is that growth slowing? The point of the question is where do you see the sweet spot in terms of aging? And what are the trends in growth in that sweet spot? Yes I mean it's hard to say where we see the sweet spot necessarily.
I mean we've had a real advantage as you've seen.
And I'd look at it over just the last year.
But if you look at it over the last maybe 4 years say we've seen a pretty good change in the age of vehicles overall.
That may moderate a little bit but it continues to be a benefit.
And so we always used to say that vehicles 7 years old or older are our kind of vehicles.
And now with an average age of well over 10 years that's a significant population of cars that are in our sweet spot.
Research Division</strong> But I guess at some point do you see behavior where the car gets beyond that 7 years a consumer might opt to trade in for a new car or a used car that's not as damaged and then scrap that car.
What age does that typically happen? Well obviously that age has moved out over time.
And so I think that that is as much of an economic issue as it is anything else.
And so I think that's availability credit economic turnaround et cetera relative to new car sales.
But either way it's been a slow movement to get to where we are and I don't expect to see any abrupt changes in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
So then just to finish to close the loop is that one of the factors that you think about when you guys talk about maybe something outside of weather? Not on the age of vehicles.
Probably not the age of vehicles Michael.
When we talk about outside of weather I mean just to be clear those 3 regions behave differently.
At the same time we don't want to sit here and just peg the quarter on weather.
And so clearly we can draw a lot of analogies to how those 3 regions performed overall and we struggle to find any other macro corollaries to the performance of those regions.
Having said that we're always going to be conscious of the fact that maybe it isn't totally weather and we're going to continue to take actions and strategies within our organization to be able to respond to any conditions that we have.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Rhodes for closing comments.
Before we conclude the call I'd just like to take a moment to reiterate that our business model continues to be solid.
We're excited about our growth prospects for the new year.
We cannot take anything for granted as we understand our customers have alternatives.
Our culture remains our key point of differentiation from our competition and we must not lose sight of the importance of basic store execution in order to remain very successful.
We have a solid plan for 2013 and our team is positioned to succeed.
But I want to stress that this is a marathon and not a sprint.
As we will continue to focus on the basics and continue to focus on optimizing long-term shareholder value.
We are confident AutoZone will continue to be incredibly successful.
Thank you very much for participating in today's call.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you very much for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the AutoZone Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
This conference call will discuss AutoZone's first quarter financial results.
Bill Rhodes the company's Chairman President and CEO will be making a short presentation on the highlights of the quarter.
The conference call will end promptly at 10 a.m.
Central time 11 a.m.
Eastern time.
Before Mr.
Rhodes begins the company has requested that you listen to the following statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Certain statements contained in this presentation are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use words such as believe anticipate should intend plan will expect estimate project positioned strategy and similar expressions.
These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends current conditions expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including without limitation: credit market conditions; the impact of recessionary conditions; competition; product demand; the ability to hire and retain qualified employees; consumer debt levels; inflation; weather; raw material costs of our suppliers; energy prices; war and the prospect of war including terrorist activity; availability of consumer transportation; construction delays; access to available and feasible financing; and changes in laws or regulations.
Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 25 2012 and these risk factors should be read carefully.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone's Fiscal 2013 First Quarter Conference Call.
With me today are Bill Giles Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of IT and ALLDATA; and Brian Campbell Vice President Treasurer Investor Relations and Tax.
Regarding the first quarter I hope you've had an opportunity to read our press release and learn about the quarter's results.
If not the press release along with slides complementing our comments today is available on our website www.autozoneinc.com.
Please click on Quarterly Earnings Conference Calls to see them.
To begin this morning I want to thank all AutoZoners across the globe for another very solid quarter.
Although we faced a difficult sales environment particularly in the Northeast Midwest and Plains states our team did a great job of managing expenses while executing great customer service.
We are committed to steady earnings performance and efficient capital deployment and we delivered on our commitments this quarter.
On this morning's conference call Bill Giles and I will provide color on our initiatives and our domestic DIY Commercial Mexico and ALLDATA businesses as well as our efforts in Brazil.
To begin I'd like to highlight the key events during the quarter.
Just after our last conference call we held our national sales meeting here in Memphis.
At this event we hosted our senior field leadership along with the recognized best and brightest store managers those we call our President's Club members.
We reiterated our objectives to improve customer service store by store and grow our Commercial business.
But we also recognize the selling environment could be challenging for a period of time.
We understood the macro factors affecting our business would not be solved overnight.
We stressed managing expenses carefully but not at the detriment of customer service.
To this end our team did an outstanding job with execution.
I am very pleased to report we were able to again deliver share gains in both our Retail and Commercial sectors.
This data now is only available at a high-level national basis but it helps us monitor our progress and we continue to be pleased with the results.
Just a few weeks ago several members of our team flew to Sao Paulo Brazil for the official grand opening of our first store in Brazil.
Everyone was very excited as our store AutoZoners epitomized what it means to deliver WOW! Customer Service.
I must say it was so incredibly exciting to see that familiar AutoZone brand standing tall in Sorocaba Brazil.
Finally we held our annual sales and leadership council where we recognized the best of the best at AutoZone.
The council consisted of the top 136 sales and operation leaders from across the United States.
This team of incredibly talented and committed leaders is amazing to me.
Their enthusiasm for their customers AutoZoners and the performance of this amazing company is infectious.
These are the current and future leaders of this organization and I left that event feeling even more enthusiastic about our future.
Regarding this past quarter's results Q1 marked our 25th consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings per share growth.
We're very pleased with our ability to consistently deliver strong EPS growth through our financial model of steady mid-single-digit EBIT dollar growth or better along with high single-digit reductions in diluted share count.
Our goal quarter-over-quarter continues to be to provide consistency to our shareholders our AutoZoners and our customers.
We feel this targeted consistency in both financial performance as well as execution of our key initiatives results in stability and confidence for our stockholders and AutoZoners.
Next I'd like to highlight our sales results for the past quarter.
Our sales were up 3.5% and our same-store sales were up 0.2%.
This quarter same-store sales results compared to last year's first quarter comps of 4.6%.
Our same-store sales results are a combination of both our Retail and Commercial businesses.
I should point out our total Commercial sales were up 12% over last year's first quarter driven by a combination of existing programs and the addition of 357 net new programs over the trailing 12 months.
Our overall sales performance for the quarter was softer than we'd hoped but we were not entirely -- but they were not entirely unexpected.
Our results were consistent -- were inconsistent from month to month.
However we did finish the quarter stronger than it began in spite of Hurricane Sandy impacting a large portion of the Northeast.
The substantial differences in sales by regions like our fourth quarter continued for us during this first quarter.
The 3 regions of the Northeast Midwest and Plains states continued to track materially below the remainder of the country for the quarter.
In fact 5 percentage points difference in same-store sales between the remaining 7 regions and the 3 affected regions.
This slowdown continued to surprise us as this area of the country has been where a fair percentage of our new stores and new Commercial programs have been opened in the last couple of years.
Certainly this wasn't the only story affecting sales but it continues to be a challenge for us.
What I can say is we began to see some improvements in these areas after Sandy and it may be directly related to Sandy's effects starting in November.
It is nice to be able to say these markets' DIY sales turned positive the last 2 weeks of the quarter.
We continue to feel our initiatives are having a positive impact but the challenges we experienced in the Northeast Plains and Great Lakes appear more macro in nature and less about specific actions we or any of our competitors have taken.
We understand we're competing every day with very good well-established competitors but we remain confident in our current business model and the initiatives we have undertaken to continually provide improving customer service.
We continue to feel our selling proposition is a real differentiator to our customers and when customer traffic improves we will be well positioned to further capture market share gains.
Additionally based on national industry sales data that is available results show we continue to outpace our total competitive base in both the DIY and Commercial sectors.
With this said I want to mention again some other points we're asked regularly about auto parts sales.
We're asked if the lack of new car sales the last few years or the ramp in new car sales this year puts pressure on your business.
Clearly new car sales for 2009 '10 and '11 were lower than the preceding years.
This may prove to be a headwind as those vehicles age as there are less of them.
However data shows this can be offset by the average age of vehicles -- as the average age of vehicles continues to increase and the population of cars older than 11 years becomes a majority of the vehicles on the road.
Therefore we do not see this metric as a key factor in our current sales performance.
Also we appreciate what the more recent new car sales can mean to the impact on our business.
We're asked if people are forgoing repairs in anticipation of buying a new car.
What really matters to us is what's happening with those old cars at the time new cars are purchased.
As long as those cars are resold we're not losing any business.
From very preliminary data on 2012 our position is the absolute car registrations will increase in 2012.
Speaking in regard to our DIY business.
As we've discussed in the past the bigger issue is the types of products we're selling and where our opportunities lie.
We break product categories into failure maintenance and discretionary purchases.
As we've also said previously maintenance products have not had the sales growth the other sectors have had in recent quarters.
Maintenance routinely represents about 40% of any quarter's sales and this category for us has been growing over the last year in a low-single-digit range versus the failure and discretionary categories growing in the mid-single-digit range.
The products we sell categorized as maintenance are typically those an owner's manual says should be changed at some select mileage intervals.
This past quarter these 3 regions had much weaker-than-expected sales specifically in this category.
And even more specifically the handful of merchandise categories challenged in the fourth quarter remains challenged this quarter.
Excluding these categories our results in these areas and in total would have been consistent with the other regions.
Now it is important to note there are always better and worse performing regions across the country.
Because we've not been able to come up with a better explanation to this divergence than unseasonable weather patterns over the calendar year we continue to believe the only way we'll know for sure what is driving the difference is time: time to compare these regions' results against the upcoming winter and spring.
At this point we don't believe any sales correlations to miles driven new cars sales or gas prices in these parts of the country exist to explain the sales falloff.
This morning we want to call out some key accomplishments for the quarter.
We completed 7 additional hub projects this past quarter taking our hub resets life-to-date to 67.
We continue to be quite pleased with the sales benefits from the reset hubs as we have increased the size and/or improved the location allowing us to expand the number of SKUs offered on a same-day basis in the market.
These SKUs have benefited both Retail and Commercial customers.
Due to our hub strategy and more specifically what the additional hub space offers we were able to place additional hard parts inventory in the local markets allowing us to better meet the ever-increasing needs of our customers.
I know many of you have read how inventory per store has increased within our industry over the last few years and not in a small way.
This is due to the proliferation of unique makes and models constantly being rolled out each year.
Our listeners should expect us to talk about proper inventory placement for years to come.
We believe our hub strategy better positions us to address this need.
Regarding Mexico we opened 4 stores this quarter and finished with 325 stores.
Sales in our other businesses achieved very solid sales results.
Our ALLDATA and E-Commerce businesses continued to perform well increasing 5.3% over last year.
There are great opportunities for E-Commerce sales growth on both a business-to-business basis and to individual customers or B2C.
While both businesses are relatively small for us we are experimenting to understand where the most potential exists.
At this point we still view DIY E-Commerce as supplemental to our walk-in business.
What we do want to have is the best website possible for our customers to research their vehicle needs.
We continue to spend our resources on this design element.
Also in our press release this morning we announced a definitive agreement to acquire the assets and select liabilities of AutoAnything.
AutoAnything is a leading online retailer of specialty automotive products.
Sales are expected to be approximately $125 million for calendar 2012.
AutoAnything was initially founded by Selwyn Klein in 1979 incidentally the same year AutoZone was founded as a manufacturer and retailer of sheepskin seat covers and custom carpet floor mats.
In the late 1990s Selwyn was joined by both of his sons David and Trevor and together they set out to expand their company into an online retailer of automotive products.
Along with the addition of many other talented and dedicated leaders and employees they have built a sizable and profitable business.
When we first met with the Kleins and a few other members of their team it was quickly evident that our business philosophies and values were closely aligned.
At AutoZone the first line of our pledge is "AutoZoners always put customers first." At AutoAnything their core belief is to always do what is in the best interest of the customer.
We are very excited about this announcement and excited to finalize the transaction by the end of this calendar year.
We believe together these 2 organizations can leverage each other's strengths and capabilities and improve the performance of both businesses.
Our plans are to continue to operate AutoAnything as a standalone entity located in San Diego California.
We very much look forward to finalizing this transaction and formally welcoming the talented members of the AutoAnything team to AutoZone.
As this transaction is not yet closed we are not announcing the purchase price but once it is closed it will be disclosed in our financial statements.
Lastly the acquisition is expected to be slightly dilutive to fiscal 2013 EPS and accretive in 2014 and beyond.
We continue to remain bullish on our industry sales growth opportunities on both the Retail and Commercial fronts over the long term.
As the vehicle population continues to age and consumers continue to look for good values while maintaining their vehicles we see AutoZone's opportunity to sell to these customers only growing.
Now let me review our highlights regarding execution of our operating theme for 2013 one team delivering WOW!.
The key priorities for the year are Great People Providing Great Service! profitably growing our Commercial business leveraging the Internet hub store improvements and leveraged technology to improve the customer experience while optimizing efficiencies.
On the Retail front this past quarter under the Great People Providing Great Service! theme we continued with our intense focus on improving execution.
We continued to invest in training our store AutoZoners.
We've completed the rollout of our new labor management system and replaced our legacy system.
In regards to Commercial we opened 37 programs during the quarter.
We elected to moderate our Commercial program openings during Q1 and instead pushed our planned openings closer to spring when a more normal ramp in sales is expected.
We did not feel we were missing anything by delaying some openings for a short period of time.
We continue to see Commercial as a material sales growth driver for us for many years to come.
Our results continued to provide us confidence to be aggressive in adding additional resources and new programs to this important growth initiative.
I'll take a moment now to talk more specifically about our first quarter performance in more detail.
Our domestic same-store sales grew 0.2% for the quarter.
Our first quarter which ended November 17 did experience some variability in month-to-month sales results.
More importantly the impact on a regional basis continued to be our story.
The separation of results began in April for us and continued through this quarter.
As we've said previously the category of sales we define as maintenance had the most challenging comparison on the quarter.
With approximately 40% of our sales in this classification sales of this category were soft particularly in the subset of geographic regions previously discussed.
As weather and the mild winter experienced in these regions appear to be a contributor as we've said previously weather always evens out over the long term.
So we never get too excited on the upside or the downside.
We do not believe that the softness was due to any actions we or our competitors took.
This regional difference in results carried through to our Commercial business as well.
Our small market share and current growth trajectory from our newer programs gives us confidence in our future build-out potential.
We will continue to invest to grow our Commercial business and penetrate a larger percentage of our existing store base.
As I've said earlier ALLDATA and E-Commerce had another fine quarter up 5.3% in sales from this time last year.
This portion of our business while small as a percentage of our overall sales mix continues to experience faster sales growth than the auto parts stores.
Regarding our ALLDATA product in Europe we remain very upbeat on the sales potential in this area of the world.
There are competitors to ALLDATA there today but we feel there's a real point of differentiation with our product.
The sales ramp for this business is planned to be gradual over 2013 but our hope is to have a material increase in sales within a 2- to 3-year time period.
We should also highlight another strong performance in return on invested capital as we were able to finish the quarter at 33.0%.
This statistic has shown steady improvement reflecting our efforts to efficiently use the capital we deploy.
It is important to reinforce that we will always maintain our diligence regarding capital stewardship as the capital is our investors' capital.
Before I pass the discussion over to Bill Giles to talk about our financial results I'd like to state how proud we are of our entire organization's efforts to plan and manage this business appropriately.
When we entered this quarter we anticipated that the sales environment would potentially not be robust.
We communicated this possibility to the organization and explained that in more challenging environments we have to be even more aggressive on cost controls.
It had been a few years since we had to use this muscle but in typical AutoZone fashion our team responded quickly and appropriately.
I'm very proud of our team for their commitment to great service and for their commitment to success.
As we look forward we will continue to aggressively manage our cost structure while simultaneously execute our initiatives and drive productive sales growth.
Now here's Bill.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone.
To start this morning let me take a few moments to talk more specifically about our Retail Commercial and International results for the quarter.
For the quarter total auto parts sales increased 3.4% on top of last year's first quarter's growth of 7.4%.
This segmentation includes our domestic Retail and Commercial businesses and our Mexico stores.
Regarding macro trends during the first quarter nationally unleaded gas prices started out at $3.78 a gallon and ended the quarter at $3.43 a gallon a $0.35 decline.
Last year gas prices decreased similarly by $0.26 per gallon during the first quarter starting at $3.63 and ending at $3.37 a gallon.
We continue to believe gas prices have a real impact on our customers' abilities to maintain their vehicles and we believe the recent declines in prices provide our customers with a much deserved increase in their disposable incomes.
During the quarter prices declined on a national basis steadily consistent with the prior year trends.
While there were some regional disruptions in California and with Hurricane Sandy in the Northeast gas did come down a bit.
At the same time with gas prices remaining at these overall higher levels we continued to communicate through our marketing messages to our customers the steps they can take to improve their gas mileage.
We also recognized that the impact of miles driven on cars over 10 years old the current average is much different than on newer cars in terms of wear and tear.
Miles driven were down 0.3% in July up 1.2% in August and down again 1.5% in September.
At this point we do not have data for October and November.
Year-to-date through September miles driven are up slightly 0.6% from last year.
The other statistic we highlight is the number of 7-year-old and older vehicles on the road which continues to trend in our industry's favor.
For the trailing 4 quarters total auto parts sales per average square foot were $264.
This statistic continues to set the pace for the rest of the industry.
This metric is up 1.1% over last year's first quarter.
This improvement is the key contributor to our record EBIT margin percent and our record ROIC.
For the quarter total Commercial sales increased 12.2%.
For the first quarter Commercial represented 15.4% of our total sales and grew $33 million over last year's Q1.
Last year's Commercial sales mix percent was 14.2%.
As we have said previously overall we have been very pleased with the progress we are making in our Commercial business both operationally and financially and we remain on track with our plan.
We believe there are ample opportunities for us to continue to improve many facets of our operations and offerings and therefore we are optimistic about the future of this business.
Our sales growth has come from both existing and new customers.
We continue to believe we can grow revenues in existing stores and we will continue to open additional Commercial programs.
This past quarter we opened 37 new programs versus 100-plus programs opened in each of our third and fourth quarters of last fiscal year.
We now have our Commercial program in 3 090 stores supported by 149 hubs.
However it is worth highlighting that approximately 25% of our programs are 3 years old or younger.
With only 66% of our domestic stores having the Commercial program and our average revenue per program materially below several of our competitors we believe there's ample opportunity for additional program growth aside from improved productivity opportunities in current programs.
In regard to the current quarter our growth rate was 12% versus last quarter's 16% growth rate.
The effect of the 3 regions Bill mentioned earlier in the call had an impact on our Commercial results as well in fact materially more so than on the DIY business.
These markets were a full 17 percentage -- 17% lower in growth rate than last year in Q1.
Our other regions were slightly below in total last year's results.
Again a similar subset of merchandise drove this material decline.
We continue to feel weather probably had some impact on these results.
It certainly had an impact but not the full impact.
We do believe if we experience a more normal winter from a weather perspective sales will improve in these markets.
Our share is up from what we can see and customer feedback on our performance has been positive.
What is not clear from our numbers is how the productivity from our newer programs is affecting our overall sales per program.
New programs typically open slowly and therefore with lower volumes.
With a 34% program increase over the last 3 years they've challenged this overall sales-per-program metric.
In regard to our future we're focused on building the Commercial initiatives that have been in place for the last few years.
We continue to watch our sales force mature.
We're also enhancing training and introducing additional technology to optimize the productivity of our sales force.
We have increased our efforts around analyzing customer purchasing trends and in-stock trends.
We feel our product distribution model is scalable going forward and we are continuing to test additional enhancements to our offerings.
In addition to our focus on further developing and expanding our sales force we expect to continue adding additional late-model import and domestic coverage both in satellite and hub stores.
And what remains a validation of our ongoing strategy our Duralast brand continues to gain traction with our customers.
In summary we remain committed to our long-term growth strategy.
We have accelerated the growth of our Commercial programs having opened over 778 programs over the past 36 months a 34% increase.
We believe we are well positioned to grow this business and capture market share.
The regional variances in our Commercial sales results give us comfort our underperforming markets are not solely the direct cause of something we have specifically done.
We believe we can scale this business in a profitable manner.
We continue to be excited about our opportunities in this business for many years to come.
Our Mexico stores continued to perform well.
We opened 4 new stores during the first quarter.
We currently have 325 stores in Mexico and we remain resolute on our strategy to open stores at a steady pace while managing our Mexico business for the long run.
We have operated stores in Mexico for over 14 years and we continue to see great opportunity for growth going forward.
Our returns and profit growth have been in line with our expectations.
Regarding Brazil our store is up and running.
We've had our formal grand opening.
At this point there's nothing noteworthy to report from a sales perspective as we continue to learn more about the market and our customers.
We're currently in various stages of development on future stores.
Our plans are to open 12 to 15 stores over the next couple of years and then slow additional development as we refine our offerings and prove that our concept works for our customers and financially.
Then we will determine our long-term growth plans.
Recapping our first quarter performance for the company in total our sales for the quarter were $1 991 000 000 an increase of 3.5% from last year's first quarter.
Domestic same-store sales or sales for stores opened more than 1 year were up 0.2% for the quarter.
Gross margin for the quarter was 51.8% of sales up 71 basis points compared to last year's first quarter.
The improvement in gross margin was primarily attributable to higher margins on merchandise growth.
The increased merchandise margins were due to lower acquisition cost.
We also experienced slightly lower shrink as a percentage of sales during the quarter.
In regards to inflation we have seen some increases in cost year-over-year but at a much lower pace than last year at this time.
At this point our assumption is we'll experience subdued producer pricing heading into the new year and therefore we feel costs will be predictable and manageable.
We will remain cognizant of future developments regarding inflation and we'll make the appropriate adjustments should they arise.
Like before we continue to believe there remains opportunity for gross margin expansion within both the Retail and Commercial businesses; however we do not manage to a targeted gross profit margin percentage.
As the growth of our Commercial business has been a steady headwind on our overall gross margin rate for a few years we have to continuously work strategies to offset this.
Our primary focus remains growing absolute gross profit dollars and gross profit dollars in our total auto parts segment were up 3.4% for the quarter.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 33.6% of sales higher by 18 basis points from last year's first quarter.
The primary driver on the quarter's operating expenses as a percentage of sales was 34 basis points of deleverage in store payroll.
Partially offsetting this deleverage was lower advertising expense.
We continue to believe we are well positioned to manage our cost structure for the foreseeable future.
EBIT for the quarter was $363 million up 6.6% over last year's first quarter.
Our EBIT margin improved to 18.2% or up 53 basis points versus the previous year's first quarter.
Interest expense for the quarter was $41.1 million compared with $39.1 million in Q1 a year ago.
Debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $3 803 000 000 or approximately $450 million more than last year's first quarter balance of $3 354 000 000.
Our adjusted debt level metric finished the quarter at 2.5x EBITDAR.
While in any given quarter we may increase or decrease the leverage metric based on management's opinion regarding debt and equity market conditions we remain committed to both our investment-grade rating and our capital allocation strategy and share repurchases are an important element of that strategy.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 36.9% above last year's first quarter of 36.7%.
We expect our full year rate to run in line with this past quarter's results.
Net income for the quarter of $203 million was up 6.4% versus the prior year's first quarter.
Our diluted share count of 37.6 million was down 8% from last year's first quarter.
The combination of these factors drove earnings per share for the quarter to $5.41 up 15.7% over the prior year's first quarter.
Relating to the cash flow statement for the first quarter of 2013 we've generated $318 million of operating cash flow.
Net fixed assets were up 8% versus last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $80.4 million and reflected the additional expenditures required to open 24 new stores this quarter capital expenditures on existing stores hub store remodel efforts and work on development of new stores for upcoming quarters.
For all of fiscal 2013 our CapEx is expected to be approximately $400 million.
With the new stores opened we finished this past quarter with 4 703 stores in 49 states the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico; 325 stores in Mexico; and 1 in Brazil for a total store count of 5 029.
Depreciation totaled $50.7 million for the quarter versus last year's first quarter expense of $48.6 million.
With our excess cash flow we repurchased $317 million of AutoZone stock in the first quarter.
At the end of the quarter we had $788 million remaining under our share buyback authorization.
We continue to view our share repurchase program as an attractive capital deployment strategy.
Accounts payable as a percent of gross inventory finished the quarter at 112%.
While we expect we have some room to increase this ratio going forward we expect the rate of increase to remain modest.
Next I'd like to update you on inventory levels in total and on a per-store basis.
We reported an inventory balance of $2.7 billion up 6.8% versus the Q1 ending balance last year.
Increased inventory reflects new store growth along with additional investments and coverage for select categories.
Inventory per store was up 2.6% reflecting our continued investments in hard parts coverage.
Finally as Bill previously mentioned our continued disciplined capital management approach resulted in return on invested capital for the trailing 4 quarters of 33%.
We have and will continue to make investments that we believe will generate returns that significantly exceed our cost of capital.
As the last point I'd like to point out that this year fiscal year 2013 has an extra week in it.
More specifically the extra week will fall during the fourth quarter.
Already our longest quarter in terms of number of weeks this year's fourth quarter will have an extra week taking us to 17 total weeks in Q4.
As a result our year will end next year on August 31.
The last time we had an extra week in our financials was fiscal 2008 and we would encourage you to review the impact this extra week had on our performance in Q4 2008 to better understand the impact this extra week may have on our fourth quarter and fiscal 2013 results.
Now I'll turn it back to Bill Rhodes.
Thank you Bill.
Our company has been extremely successful over the long run.
We remain committed to delivering WOW! Customer Service going forward.
We continue to execute at a high level and it is our incredible AutoZoners now across the globe who work tirelessly to achieve these results.
As we've said earlier on our call our results this past quarter were solid but not as good as we would have liked.
We continued to experience some unique regional performance differences that weigh on our results.
Clearly our business has experienced a slowdown over the last several months and we continue to believe a significant amount of that slowdown is likely due to the mild winter we experienced last year.
But we are still cautious on discussing weather as the entire story.
For one reason we can't control the weather.
Our charge is to optimize our performance regardless of market conditions and continue to ensure we are investing in the key initiatives that will drive our long-term performance.
In the end delivering EPS growth of 15.7% and an ROIC of 33.0% for the quarter are great results.
As we look to the future the past month's slowdown in industry sales remains a concern and we will continue to manage our business accordingly.
We believe some portion of it is due to last winter's mild winter.
But that likely isn't the entire story.
While we mentioned earlier that our more recent sales results have been better we are careful not to oversell this point as we appreciate the challenging same-store sales comparison we have this quarter from last year's Q2.
So while we cannot predict sales what we do know is we will continue to effectively manage this business through good times and less good as evidenced by our 25 consecutive quarters of double-digit EPS growth which included all kinds of macro trends.
As we think about our model we grow new store square footage at an annual rate of approximately 4% and we expect to continue growing our Commercial businesses at an accelerated rate.
Therefore we look to routinely grow EBIT dollars in the mid-single-digit range or better in times of strength.
And we leverage our very strong and predictable cash flow to repurchase shares enhancing our earnings per share comfortably into double digits.
This model has been quite successful for an extended period of time.
Before we close I'd like to reiterate how excited we are about the upcoming acquisition of AutoAnything.
The business and organization the Kleins and their team have built is impressive and we look forward to working with them to provide WOW! Customer Service to all of our collective customers.
Additionally I want to again thank and congratulate our entire organization for their dedication to our customers fellow AutoZoners stockholders and communities.
Our approach remains consistent.
We're focused on succeeding in the second quarter of 2013 and we are optimistic and excited about the remainder of the year.
Before we move to the Q&amp;A period I'd like to take this opportunity to recognize and say goodbye to 2 of our great leaders.
Over the next month both Lisa Kranc Senior Vice President of Marketing; and Bob Olsen Corporate Development Officer will be retiring.
Both have been key leaders of our organization for more than a decade and their contributions have been invaluable.
They will certainly be missed but they built strong teams and those teams will continue to prosper in their absence.
As we thank them for their past service we want to wish both Lisa and Bob and their families all the best in their future endeavors.
Now we'd like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Christopher Horvers with JPMC.
Research Division</strong> This is Rachel Stubins for Chris Horvers.
Could you provide some thoughts on what's driving the lower shrink and how long this can continue to last? That's a great question.
I mean I think our entire organization has really done an incredible job of really focusing on all the elements that we believe cause shrink.
And so it starts both from an analytical standpoint; it starts at the distribution centers; and most importantly it starts with all of our AutoZoners in the stores taking care of our customers.
And so we believe that reducing shrink really starts with great customer service as well as some system enhancements and better inventory management control all things that we've worked on over the past I'd say probably 2 to 3 years.
Exceptionally hard and I think you're starting to see those results in the last probably 5 or 6 quarters.
And we had good results this quarter as well and we expect to have slightly favorable trends going forward.
But at some point in time I'm sure it will moderate out.
Our next question is from Colin McGranahan with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> First question just focusing on the top line weakness and especially in those 3 regions.
Understanding the warm weather certainly impacts the need for maintenance and repair as you come out of the winter but we're now sitting here in the November and it's -- the weakness in these markets is lingering perhaps a little bit longer than we might have expected and you might have expected.
And do you have any thoughts on the persistence of it and why that weakness continues to linger so long? I think it does not necessarily surprise us Colin.
As we looked at it last year use the brake systems or the chassis system they didn't go through the wear and tear due to snow ice salt all those different kinds of things.
That just didn't happen last year.
And so as we started seeing this divergence we did anticipate that it would happen.
I think even on our last call we said that we don't necessarily anticipate we'll know the answer to it until we get into the spring.
So I just think it just didn't have the rugged issues that it typically has in those areas during the winter and we're going have to wait and see what happens next year.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when you look at the categories -- and I think in the last call you did a really nice job of that.
When you look at the categories of what's selling in the business say in October is that not dissimilar to what's selling in the business say in March or April as you're coming out of the winter? I would have thought that given you had some very hot summer weather in those regions too in the Plains especially that just the natural mix of the business of what's happening in October is going to be a little bit different than what's happening in March.
Or am I just confused? No I think you're right.
I think generally you're going to do a lot of maintenance projects in March and in October one coming out of winter one going into the winter to prepare for it.
But there has been a step function change in our sales patterns and in even our demand patterns which is where AutoZoners are looking up products in these specific maintenance areas in those regions.
And it is pretty dramatic in those regions what we've seen and it's persisted since about April.
I think part of the winter last year was a little bit -- was disguised because it was so warm that people were doing some of those maintenance projects earlier than they typically would have so we didn't really see it until April.
But from that point on it has been very consistent.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well that feeds into my second question that obviously you have that tough compare coming up here in fiscal 2Q again some of that pull-forward demand.
So given the trend it looks possible the comps could even struggle more.
You mentioned aggressive -- getting that muscle back in action aggressively managing the cost structure and you did a pretty good job this quarter.
Advertising you pointed out.
What else are you thinking about either not doing foregoing reducing? When you talk about aggressively managing the cost what specific areas are you looking at? Yes.
I would say every single area of the company.
We're looking at headcount.
We've slowed our Commercial openings a little bit.
That will ramp back up as we come into the spring.
But we're just -- we want to be cautious as we go into the second quarter.
The second quarter is always the most financially challenging quarter because it has 3 different holidays in it.
Our sales performance in those quarters are always the lowest of the year so it's always a big concern.
So we're just going to be very aggressive managing every single cost of the company as we go through Q2.
And I think by the end of Q2 we'll begin seeing some signs of what the sales environment is going to look like after we annualize this winter.
Our next question is from Gary Balter with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about Sandy and what impact that may have had on your sales? And you mentioned that business has picked up since the end of the quarter and you attributed part of that to Sandy.
Could you go into a bit more detail on that? Yes Gary.
First of all number one I apologize for everybody that had the impacts of Sandy.
I know it's been traumatic up there for many of you on this call in the Northeast and I hope everybody is doing well.
For our business Sandy over say a 3-week period of time was not a material event.
We saw significant deceleration in sales the week of the event.
It appears we picked those sales back up over the next couple of weeks.
So I would say it was not a material event in the quarter.
When we talked about sales performance we said in the last couple of weeks of the quarter we did not address the first couple of weeks of the new quarter because we just don't like to get into ever -- get into the sales pattern of the new quarter because we release earnings within 2.5 weeks and I just don't want people trying to develop trends off of those short periods of time.
As we think about Sandy one of the corollaries we have is when we see these kinds of storms in Florida and the Mississippi Gulf Coast and Louisiana we typically see a pretty nice increase in our business in the region for call it 6 months or so after the storm because there is a lot of people that do our kind of work that come to the area to do the repairs.
There's also money flowing whether it's insurance money or FEMA and in a lot of cases we see a nice pickup on a regional basis as a result of some of these catastrophic events.
Research Division</strong> Following it up I guess it’s also weather-related.
Like you constantly mentioned like the Midwest Northeast and the Plains as being weather impacted.
Are there any changes in the competitive environment like for example in where -- like in Chicago it's become a little bit more aggressive? Are there other possible explanations? Or you're -- based on your analysis you're pretty sure this is weather.
Yes.
I mean I think one of the things that we look back on Gary is that we believe it's more focused on weather just from the standpoint that we don't see a lot of changes in competitive behavior that would attribute the kind of sales performance that we've seen since that April time period going forward.
And so we've done a fair amount of analysis on this both from an external factor as well as an internal factor.
And when we look at all of that analysis there doesn't seem to be any action specifically that we are taking or that our competitors are taking that has resulted in the sales performance that we're experiencing.
And we supplement that by looking at it from a category perspective.
As Bill mentioned before when you look at a lot of these maintenance categories they seem to be hit harder than most.
Our next question is from Alan Rifkin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> When you look at the stores that are collectively supported by the 149 expanded hubs how are these stores on the Commercial side of the business doing relative to the stores that are not yet supported by the expanded hubs? Yes I think one thing to think about too is that virtually all of our stores are at some level supported by a hub.
And you're right.
We've got about 67 or so that have been expanded.
And what's happening on those expanded hubs is that we we're able to introduce more coverage and that really is the primary purpose of it and we are seeing an increase in the sales performance of those satellite stores as well as the Commercial programs.
So it certainly gives us the confidence for us to continue to move forward with this initiative of expanding and relocating hubs where we think it's appropriate so that we can get better coverage in those marketplaces.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one more question if I may.
With the rollout of the labor management system when exactly do you expect to realize results of this? And can you maybe shed a little bit more color on exactly what you are hoping the system will do for you? I think at a high level what we really want to make sure the system does is allow us to allocate our payroll dollars on a more surgical basis so that we are matching our hours.
Like any retailer we're trying to match our hours with our sales demand not just generically on a Saturday but more specifically on this individual hours during the week and specifically on the weekend.
And so the system is up and running within the stores.
Like any good IT system we're working through issues during the first couple of months.
But we're getting some benefits out of it.
We're certainly being able to manage and control our models at a more surgical level than we have historically and we'll continue to see benefits.
I can't give you a quantification of it right now but ultimately what we're really focused on is improving our customer service by ensuring that we've got the right number of AutoZoners during the right hours of the day.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last question for Bill Rhodes if I may.
Bill does the acquisition of AutoAnything accomplish what you believe you now need to grow E-Commerce? And how exactly are you going to integrate AutoAnything with ALLDATA? Well great questions.
We are very excited about AutoAnything and I just want to spend one second to talk about the members of the management team that we've come in contact with particularly the Klein family.
It was amazing in the first meeting that we had with them.
I believe it was back in July.
The consistency of our business philosophies the value structure and just -- there was a real chemistry there.
So they are very focused on their culture and I think they're going to be a phenomenal fit for us.
One of the things that AutoAnything does for us is they allow us to reach into a customer segment that we really don't participate in very much even in our stores much less over the Internet today.
Their demographics are much higher-income demographics.
They are very good at accessories and performance which are areas where we don't excel at.
We are fantastic on the parts side of the business.
So I think that they are a very nice complement to us.
We will continue to run them -- our vision is to continue to run them as a stand-alone company.
Now there are tremendous strengths that they have and there's tremendous strengths that we have and we're going to work very collaboratively with them to find those areas of leverage and those areas of synergy so that we can improve the performance of both organizations.
But we're really excited.
As for ALLDATA there's really probably not going to be any significant connections with ALLDATA.
But really the connections are going to be with our E-Commerce team here in Memphis which is led by Jamey Traywick who did a tremendous job working with AutoAnything and assessing this acquisition opportunity.
The next question is from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My 2 questions both relate to Commercial.
It seemed like Commercial experienced a bit more of a deceleration on a per-program basis the decel you saw on DIY.
So I was hoping if you boil down on those subcategories within maintenance within those regions sort of that real core of softness for you how did those categories in those regions map to Commercial versus DIY? Almost identical Matt except the impact on Commercial as you mentioned was a little bit more significant than it was in DIY.
But it's remarkable how focused it is in the same areas of the country and how focused it is in the same categories.
Research Division</strong> And the next question a follow-up question.
Listening to Bill Giles it sounded like you were starting to explore the notion that self-cannibalization in Commercial might be contributing to the deceleration that you're experiencing on that side of the business.
And any sense you could give us as to the diagnostics that you're looking at and thinking about to make that decision? And what evidence might be leading you to think this? Yes.
Look clearly as we open new programs we cannibalize existing programs to some extent not a tremendous extent.
But the bottom line is we have 2% market share.
So the fact that we cannibalize in existing stores open a new program to start that new program and to grow in that other market area that's something we're willing to compromise on over the short term.
Over the long term we need to have substantially more of our stores on the Commercial program and that's our vision.
And I want to be really -- I want to hit this point crystal clear: we opened 37 programs in Commercial in the first quarter.
We're not going to open a ton of them in the second quarter but we're going to open a lot in the back half of the year.
It just doesn't make a lot of sense particularly when we're dealing with a softer sales environment to open up a lot of Commercial programs going into the second quarter where a lot of the shops are going to be closed 3 to 5 days because of holidays and the sales volumes are lower.
Research Division</strong> And then finally well I know you guys are always engaged in the process of self-improvement.
Is there anything in particular that you're looking to do differently to drive the top line given the results of the past couple quarters? Obviously you've adjusted on the expense side and that has helped protect the bottom line but is there anything else that you have in mind for the sales side? Matt we are constantly looking for ways to improve.
But at the macro level we have great confidence in our strategy.
We continue to see that we're gaining market share in both Retail and Commercial in every way we can look at it.
And so we're going to stick to our knitting.
That's been a big part of our secret to success over the long term.
It is not to change strategies on a quarter-to-quarter week-to-week basis to stick to it and execute it in an exceptionally high level and that's our plan going forward.
Our next question is from Michael Lasser with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Number one following up on Matt's question about cannibalization do you think that the self-cannibalization has -- there's been any more evidence that it's been more intense in the Northeast as you've put more of your new stores new Commercial programs in those areas -- in that area over the last couple of years? I don't think so.
I don't think that the cannibalization has been really more intense per se.
I think that obviously we've opened more stores in the last fiscal year than we ever have leading up to that point.
The other thing that's also contributing to it is that we now have a much larger population of immature programs than we have had in the past.
So to Bill's point at the end of the day we've got a 2% market share so we need to continue to drive our business both on existing programs and some of that's going to come from expanding and relocating the hubs getting more inventory into the market for same-day delivery as well as being able to open more programs.
We've got -- 65% of our stores today have a Commercial program and obviously we believe it can be significantly higher than that.
So we're less focused on cannibalization more focused on market share and just growing EBIT dollars.
Research Division</strong> And what are you seeing from your customers? How has the trend in customer turnover on the Commercial side been over the last few quarters? Did that grow more intense in the most recent quarter? I wouldn't say it grew more intense over the last few quarters.
I do think that -- and we don't want to keep harping on it but I do think that the sales performance of the 3 regions that we keep highlighting have just been a lot different than the rest of the country both DIY and specifically in Commercial as well.
And so we look at it from a geographic perspective and we see differences.
But on an overall basis I wouldn't say that we're seeing differences on our individual customers.
Research Division</strong> And then my last question is the improvement that you've talked about in the last few weeks has that been driven by better performance in these 3 areas of the country that were particularly weak? Yes and I want to be careful not to overdo that.
I even said it in my prepared comments.
I don't want to extrapolate 2 weeks' performance.
It was post-Sandy and clearly we saw improvements in that period of time.
And particularly in the Northeast but also in the Midwest where all of those markets actually turned positive for those couple of weeks.
But I would just be careful.
We said all along it's going to be spring before we really know and I don't want anybody to try to extrapolate those couple of weeks that were promising to us.
But it's also been 74 degrees down here over the weekend so we're still looking for winter to hit.
Our next question is from Michael Baker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about what you're seeing in terms of pricing in the Commercial side as you've seen a little bit of a slowdown and others might as well? Are your Commercial customers getting a little bit more focused on price as their business slows? I think anytime an organization is faced with a challenging sales environment and clearly our Commercial customers are they get focused just like we've been focused on how do they improve their profitability? And yes there has been a bit more focus on pricing.
I don't want to over-extrapolate that either but there's clearly focus on how can they get the best value? And we think we provide them with a tremendous value.
Research Division</strong> So is this causing you guys to lower price? And what kind of -- how does that play into your gross margin trends going forward? I wouldn't try to say that it's going to have a material impact on our margins.
It hasn't at this point in time.
What we want to do is we want to make sure that we're conveying the complete value proposition.
There's a lot of other things that we do.
We've got great pricing today always have always will but there's other elements that are important to our strategy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one more on this Commercial question.
So your Commercial sales growth was up less than the growth in the number of Commercial stores so in other words sales per Commercial store was down.
We could probably figure this out from all the data but if you could just help us.
Is that solely because of adding more immature stores? Or I guess here's the question Commercial store this year versus Commercial store of last year the sort of like-for-like Commercial stores are those negative year-over-year? Or are those positive? No.
They're not negative.
I think you got to look at a lot of the immaturity levels of the new programs coming in.
Our final question today is from Bret Jordan with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions and one of them being on AutoAnything.
As you focus more into the performance and especially parts is that a category you might roll out physically into the stores as well? Or you intend to just keep that online? Well we have some of it in the stores today but the fact of the matter is that is a very SKU-intensive business.
And so it really affords itself very well for online and so we think there's real opportunities to be able to capture market share online.
And AutoAnything does a really good job on accessories and performance.
Research Division</strong> So we shouldn't be thinking about planograms changing a whole lot...
I wouldn't think about that no.
No the one thing...
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] one final question on the gross margin.
You had talked about improving acquisition cost.
Is that better pricing from same vendors? Or is that changing the supply chain more direct anything on that? It's a combination of both to some extent but we're also getting better pricing.
And when you think back over a year ago we had a lot of price inflation that we're not necessarily experiencing today.
That coupled with the fact that we're getting better pricing and our merchandising team is doing a great job on sourcing as well.
And so...
Research Division</strong> And is there a tradeoff there? I guess you're sort of flat on the AP-ed inventory at 112-ish percent.
Is it -- as you don't take that up do you get better pricing from the vendors in exchange? I don't think so.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Bill Rhodes for closing comments.
Okay before we conclude the call I'd just like to take a moment to reiterate that our business model continues to be solid.
We're excited about our growth prospects for the year.
We will not take anything for granted as we understand our customers have alternatives.
Our culture remains our key point of differentiation from our competition and we must not lose sight of the importance of basic store execution in order to remain very successful.
We have a solid plan to succeed for the remainder of 2013 but I want to stress that this is a marathon not a sprint.
As we continue to focus on the basics and focus on optimizing long-term shareholder value we are confident AutoZone will continue to be very successful.
Lastly I'd like to wish everyone a very happy and healthy holiday season and a prosperous new year.
We thank you for participating in today's call.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you very much for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the AutoZone conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
This conference call will discuss AutoZone's second quarter financial results.
Bill Rhodes the company's Chairman President and CEO will be making a short presentation on the highlights of the quarter.
The conference call will end promptly at 10 a.m.
Central Time 11 a.m.
Eastern Time.
Before Mr.
Rhodes begins the company has requested that you listen to the following statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Certain statements contained in this presentation are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use words such as believe anticipate should intend plan will expect estimate project positioned strategy and similar expressions.
These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends current conditions expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including without limitation: credit market conditions; the impact of recessionary conditions; competition; product demand; the ability to hire and retain qualified employees; consumer debt levels; inflation; weather; raw material costs of our suppliers; energy prices; war and the prospect of war including terrorist activity; availability of consumer transportation; construction delays; access to available and feasible financing; and changes in laws or regulations.
Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 25 2012 and these risk factors should be read carefully.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone's 2013 Second Quarter Conference Call.
With me today are Bill Giles Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of IT and ALLDATA; and Brian Campbell Vice President Treasurer Investor Relations and Tax.
Regarding the second quarter I hope you've had an opportunity to read our press release and learn about the quarter's results.
If not the press release along with slides complementing our comments today is available on our website www.autozoneinc.com.
Please click on Quarterly Earnings Conference Calls to see them.
To begin this morning I want to thank all AutoZoners across the globe for another very solid quarter in spite of a great deal of volatility across the 12 weeks.
We continue to execute on our strategies to improve the customer shopping experience the initiative we call Great People Providing Great Service! We also grew our Commercial program count sales and profitability.
We expanded 10 additional hub locations during the quarter to take our total remodeled hubs to 77 locations.
These remodels entail adding additional inventory into the market that benefits both our Retail and Commercial sales.
Additionally we accelerated our efforts to further leverage the Internet with the closing of our purchase of Autozone AutoAnything in December.
We are very excited about having this wonderful business and team join our organization and we believe their expertise in online retailing will help us grow this category.
We believe combining their knowledge and the expertise with the AutoZone E-Commerce team will create material sales growth in this sector in the future.
While we felt we made advances during the quarter sales have remained inconsistent and below our desires and expectations.
On the last call we noted that the last couple of weeks of the first quarter showed improving sales trends in our Midwest and Northeast markets.
However we remained cautious on our outlook.
We understood we were facing our most challenging same-store sales comparison for the fiscal year during the second quarter.
Basically this quarter felt very similar to last quarter on a sales basis through the first 10 weeks.
Our same-store sales results through 10 weeks were basically flat.
However historically we have experienced significant sequential week-to-week growth in sales during the last 2 weeks of our second quarter.
This year we saw some modest growth but not to the level we had historically experienced and during those 2 weeks our total domestic same-store sales were down 8%.
We believe the sharp fall off in sales for those 2 weeks were attributable in large part to the delay in income tax refunds being processed by the IRS.
According to Nick Colas Chief Market Strategist at the ConvergEx Group the delay in the IRS accepting returns for processing until January 30 compared to January 15 last year missed $30 billion less in refunds to individuals through February 9th as compared to last year.
From all indications we expect the same amount of dollars will be refunded this year as last and we expect our sales to respond as more refund dollars are distributed into the economy.
Unfortunately for us our fiscal quarter finishes at an odd time in early February.
Historically we have benefited from a ramp in sales due to income tax refunds and that ramp typically carries through to the usual increases from the spring selling season.
This year that was not the case.
Aside from the severely challenged last 2 weeks our Northeast and Midwest markets on a 2-year same-store basis did show some improvement.
However they were still negative and approximately 500 basis points worse than the Western and Southern store markets.
Before the last week of January sales were sequentially improving in these markets.
Maintenance categories especially brake-related categories continued to be our worst-performing categories.
The merchandise that we sell under the banner of maintenance-related remains our biggest opportunity for improvement.
This category experienced high single-digit percentage growth in 2009 '10 and most of 2011.
But starting in 2012 this category slowed markedly.
At approximately 40% of our merchandise mix on the Retail front it has been the primary reason our sales have slowed over the last 12 months.
Excluding the impact from the late tax returns although we were not pleased by our same-store sales performance we were encouraged to see our business stabilize and begin to show some signs of improvement.
As we look forward to the back half of our fiscal 2013 we're enthusiastic about the progress we're making on many of our initiatives.
We've increased the availability of inventory throughout our hub network and satellite stores we further expanded our Commercial program openings and we continue to grow our Mexico ALLDATA E-Commerce and Brazil businesses.
We are encouraged by our learnings and feel we can have improving sales trends for the remainder of the year.
Our belief is as stated on the last quarter's call this past Q2 would be a low point and we could see growth again in the back half of the year.
The most recent quarter's results marked our 26th consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings per share growth.
We are very pleased with our ability to consistently deliver strong EPS growth through our financial model of steady mid-single digit EBIT dollar growth or better along with high single-digit reductions in diluted share count through our share repurchases.
Our goal quarter-over-quarter continues to be to provide consistency to our shareholders our AutoZoners and of course our customers.
We feel this targeted consistency in both financial performance as well as execution of our key initiatives results in stability and confidence for our shareholders AutoZoners and customers.
Next I'd like to discuss our sales results for this past quarter in more detail.
Our sales were up 2.8% and our same-store sales were down 1.8%.
This quarter same-store sales results compare to last year's second quarter comps of 5.9%.
Our same-store sales results are a combination of both our Retail and Commercial businesses.
I should point out our total Commercial sales were up 9% over the last year's second quarter driven by a combination of existing programs and the addition of 321 net new programs over the trailing 12 months.
Commercial was negatively impacted by having Christmas and New Year's Day shift to Tuesday from Sunday last year.
On average Sunday is a substantially lower Commercial selling day than Tuesday.
We estimate excluding this shift Commercial sales would have been up approximately 10%.
Our overall sales performance for the quarter was softer than we'd hoped.
But aside from the last 2 weeks it was not entirely unexpected.
Our sales patterns for Commercial track basically in line with Retail sales trends.
For the first 10 weeks the correlation was tied to the regional performance differences between the Northeast and Midwest and the rest of the country.
The last 2 weeks were correlated to we believe income tax refund delays.
On last quarter's conference call we spent time discussing how we felt the differences in sales results experienced between the Northeast and Midwest were primarily a weather phenomenon.
The substantial differences of sales by region similar to the last 2 quarters continued for us during the second quarter.
The 3 regions of the Northeast Midwest and Plains states continued to track materially below the remainder of the country for the quarter.
In fact the 5 percentage points difference in same-store sales between the remaining 7 regions and the 3 affected areas was basically present through the first 10 weeks of the quarter.
It was in the last 2 weeks where the whole country's results weakened.
As we have stated previously we will know for sure about weather's impact this spring.
As our business regionally weakened starting in April of 2012 we feel our comparisons are most favorable starting at that time.
This morning we want to call out some key accomplishments this past quarter.
We completed 10 additional hub projects this quarter taking our hub resets life-to-date to 77.
We continue to be quite pleased with the sales benefits from these reset hubs as we have increased the size and/or improved the location allowing us to expand the number of SKUs offered on a same-day basis in the market.
These SKUs have benefited both Retail and Commercial customers.
Due to our hub strategy and more specifically what the additional hub space offers we were able to place additional hard parts inventory into the local markets allowing us to better meet the ever-increasing needs of our customers.
I know many of you have read how inventory per store has increased within our industry over the last few years and not in a small way.
This is due to the proliferation of unique makes and models constantly being rolled out each year.
Our listeners should expect us to talk about proper inventory placement for years to come.
We believe our evolving hub strategy better positions us to address this need.
Regarding Mexico we opened 9 stores this quarter and finished with 334 stores.
Sales in our other businesses achieved very solid sales results.
Our ALLDATA and E-Commerce businesses which includes autozone.com and autoanything.com continue to perform well increasing 43.1% over last year.
They are great opportunities for E-Commerce sales growth on both a business-to-business basis and through individual customers or B2C.
While both businesses are relatively small for us we are experimenting to understand where the most potential exists.
At this point we still view our traditional autozone.com DIY E-Commerce business as a complement to our walk-in business but we wanted the best website possible for our customers to research their vehicle needs.
We continue to spend our resources on this design element.
I also want to officially recognize and welcome AutoAnything's wonderful team to AutoZone as we closed on our acquisition at the end of calendar 2012.
Thus far I can unequivocally say the management and philosophical fit could not be better.
I am very excited about what we can do together going forward.
For the second quarter AutoAnything had 2 months of results in our consolidated financials.
With the continued aging of the car population and suddenly improving miles driven we continue to feel positive trends exist for our industry.
We continue to remain bullish on our industry sales growth opportunities on both Retail and Commercial over the long term.
As the vehicle population remains at an all-time high and consumers continue to look for good values while maintaining their vehicles we see AutoZone's opportunity to sell to these customers only growing.
Now let me review our highlights regarding execution of our operating theme for 2013: 1 TEAM Delivering WOW! The key priorities for the year are Great People Providing Great Service! profitably growing our Commercial business leveraging the Internet hub store improvements and leveraging technology to improve the customer experience while optimizing efficiency.
On the Retail front this past quarter under the Great People Providing Great Service! theme we continued with our intense focus on improving execution.
We also invested in technology to enhance information available at the point of sale as well as tools to better optimize our execution.
In regards to Commercial we opened 56 programs during the quarter.
Year-to-date we've opened 93 versus 166 through the second quarter last year.
We rolled the majority of these additional programs after January 1.
We do not expect to open quite as many programs as last year which was the most we have opened in a single year in recent history.
However we're on track to open approximately 300 programs for the year which is consistent with our annual plan.
We continue to see Commercial as a material sales driver -- growth driver for us for many years to come.
Our results continue to provide us confidence to be aggressive in adding additional resources and new programs to this important growth initiative.
I'll take a moment now to talk more specifically about our second quarter performance in more detail.
Our domestic same-store sales declined 1.8% for the quarter.
As noted earlier our second quarter which ended March 9 did experience some variability in month-to-month sales results.
More importantly the impact on our regional basis continued.
This separation in results began in April for us and continued through this quarter.
As we've said previously the category of sales we define as maintenance have the most challenging comparison on the quarter.
With approximately 40% of our sales in this classification sales of this category were soft particularly in the subset of geographic regions previously discussed.
As we experienced more normal winter patterns in these parts of the country this past winter we continue to feel there is upside opportunity as we move into the spring and summer months.
This regional difference in results carried through to our Commercial business as well.
Our small market share and current growth trajectory from our newer programs continues to give us confidence in our future buildout potential.
We will continue to invest to grow our Commercial business and penetrate a larger percentage of our existing store base.
As I've said earlier ALLDATA and E-Commerce which now includes AutoAnything had another fine quarter up 43% in sales from this time last year.
AutoAnything's inclusion in this bucket drove the majority of this growth.
This portion of our business while small as a percentage of our overall sales mix continues to experience faster sales growth than the auto parts stores.
We should also highlight another strong performance in return on invested capital as we were able to finish the quarter at 32.4%.
We strive to improve on this metric over time as it reflects our efforts to efficiently use the capital we deploy.
It's important to reinforce that we will always maintain our diligence regarding capital stewardship as the capital we invest is our investors' capital.
Before I pass the discussion over to Bill Giles to talk about our financial results I'd like to state how proud we are of our entire organization's efforts to manage the business appropriately the past few quarters.
I'm very proud of our team for their commitment to great service and for their commitment to success.
As we look forward we will continue to aggressively manage our cost structure while simultaneously executing our initiatives to drive productive sales growth.
Now here's Bill.
Good morning everyone.
To start this morning let me take a few moments to talk more specifically about our Retail Commercial and International results for the quarter.
For the quarter total auto parts sales which includes our domestic Retail and Commercial businesses our Mexico stores and 1 store in Brazil increased 1.9% on top of last year's second quarter's growth of 8.6%.
Regarding macro trends during the quarter nationally unleaded gas prices started out at $3.43 a gallon and ended the quarter at $3.61 a gallon an $0.18 increase.
Last year gas prices increased similarly by $0.15 per gallon during the second quarter starting at $3.37 and ending at $3.52 a gallon.
We continue to believe gas prices have a real impact on our customers' abilities to maintain their vehicles and we will continue to monitor prices closely in the future.
We also recognize that the impact of miles driven on cars over 10 years old the current average is much different than on newer cars in terms of wear and tear.
Miles driven were up in both October and November 0.4% in October and up 0.8% in November.
December showed miles driven were down 2.8%.
For 2012 miles driven were up slightly plus 0.3% from last year.
The other statistic we highlighted the number of 7-year-old and older vehicles on the road which continues to trend in our industry's favor.
Another key macro issue facing our customers today is the reinstitution of payroll taxes back to historic norms.
This reduction in our customers' take-home pay just began at the beginning of the new calendar year and at this point combined with the delay in income tax refunds it is hard to objectively quantify the ramifications of this change.
For the trailing 4 quarters total sales for auto parts store was $1 715 000.
This statistic continues to set the pace for the rest of the industry.
Total Commercial sales increased 8.8% for the second quarter and represented 15.6% of our total sales growing $23 million over last year's Q2.
Last year's Commercial sales mix percent was 14.8%.
As we have said previously overall we have been very pleased with the progress we're making in our Commercial business both operationally and financially and we remain on track with our plans.
We believe there are ample opportunities for us to continue to improve many facets of our operations and offerings and therefore we are optimistic about the future of this business.
We continue to believe we can grow revenues in existing stores and we will continue to open additional Commercial programs.
This past quarter we opened 56 new programs versus 92 programs opened in our second quarter of last fiscal year.
We now have our Commercial program in 3 146 stores supported by 152 hub stores.
Approximately 800 of our programs are 3 years old or younger with only 66% of our domestic stores having the Commercial program and our average revenue per program materially below several of our competitors we believe there's ample opportunity for additional program growth in addition to improved productivity opportunities in current programs.
While we recognize that our Commercial sales productivity per program is well below our peers we do not believe there are any structural impediments that prevent us from achieving similar productivity numbers.
In regard to our future we're focused on building upon the Commercial initiatives that we have in place for the last few years.
We continue to watch our sales force mature we're also enhancing training and introducing additional technology to optimize the productivity of our sales force.
We have increased our efforts around analyzing customer purchasing trends and in-stock trends.
We feel our product distribution model is scalable going forward and we're continuing to test additional enhancements to our offerings.
In summary we remain committed to our long-term growth strategy.
We have accelerated the growth of our Commercial programs again having opened over 800 programs over the last 36 months effectively 26% of the programs are 3 years old or younger.
We believe we are well positioned to grow this business and capture market share.
The regional variances in our Commercial sales results give us comfort.
Our underperforming markets are not solely the direct cause of something we have specifically done.
We believe we can scale this business in a profitable manner and we continue to be excited about our opportunities in this business for many years to come.
Our Mexico stores continued to perform well.
We opened 9 new stores during the second quarter we currently have 334 stores in Mexico.
We remain  resolute on the strategy to open stores at a steady pace while managing our Mexico business for the long run.
We've operated stores in Mexico now for over 14 years and we continue to see great opportunity for growth going forward.
Our returns and profit growth have been in line with our expectations.
Regarding Brazil our first store is up and running and we look forward to opening another here in the third quarter.
We are currently in various stages of development on future stores.
Our plans are to open 10 to 15 stores over the next couple of years and then slow additional development as we refine our offerings and prove that our concept works for our customers and financially.
Then we will determine our long-term growth plans.
Recapping our second quarter performance for the company in total our sales for the quarter were $1 855 000 000 an increase of 2.8% from last year's second quarter.
Domestic same-store sales or sales for stores opened more than 1 year were down 1.8% for the quarter.
Gross margin for the quarter was 51.9% of the sales up 51 basis points compared to last year's second quarter.
The improvements in gross margin were attributable to higher margins on merchandise growth.
The increased merchandise margins were primarily due to lower acquisition costs.
In regards to inflation we have seen some increases in cost year-over-year but at a much slower pace than last year at this time.
At this point our assumption is we'll experience subdued producer pricing heading into calendar year therefore we feel cost will be predictable and manageable.
We will remain cognizant of future developments regarding the inflation and we'll make the appropriate adjustments should they arise.
Looking forward we continue to believe there remains opportunity for gross margin expansion within both the Retail and Commercial business.
However we do not manage to a targeted gross profit margin percentage.
As the growth of our Commercial business has been the steady headwind on our overall gross margin rate for a few years we have to continuously work strategies to offset this.
Additionally AutoAnything had a slight drag on our gross margin this past quarter.
AutoAnything runs at a lower gross margin than our base business and we expect that it will be a slightly larger drag once they're in our numbers for a full reporting period.
Our primary focus remains growing absolute gross profit dollars in our total auto parts segment which for the quarter increased approximately $30 million.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 34.7% of sales higher by 6 basis points from last year's second quarter.
Operating expenses as a percentage of sales increased slightly due to the lower sales growth rates partially offset by lower incentive compensation expense.
As we entered the second quarter we were mindful of the current sales environment and due to this cautious nature we aggressively managed our cost during the quarter.
I want to take a moment to thank our entire team for their incredible diligence on cost control which ultimately was a significant contributor to our performance in Q2.
We continue to believe we're well-positioned to manage our cost structure for the foreseeable future.
Earnings before interest and taxes for the quarter was $318 million up 5.6% over last year's second quarter.
Our EBIT margin improved to 17.1% or up 45 basis points versus the previous year's second quarter.
Interest expense for the quarter was $41.3 million compared with $38.9 million in Q2 a year ago.
Debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $3 998 000 000 or approximately $530 million more than last year's second quarter balance of $3 464 000 000.
Our adjusted debt level metric finished the quarter at 2.6x EBITDAR while in any given quarter we may increase or decrease our leverage metric based on management's opinion regarding debt and equity market conditions we remain committed to both our investment-grade rating and our capital allocation strategy and share repurchases are an important element of that strategy.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 36.2% flat with last year's second quarter of 36.2%.
We expect our full year rate to be approximately 37%.
Net income for the quarter of $176 million was up 5.6% versus the prior year's second quarter.
Our diluted share count of 36.9 million was down 8.3% from last year's second quarter.
The combination of these factors drove earnings per share for the quarter to $4.78 up 15.1% over the prior year's second quarter.
Relating to the cash flow statement for the second fiscal quarter of 2013 we generated $193 million of operating cash flow.
Net fixed assets were up 8% versus last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $89 million and reflected the additional expenditures required to open 41 new stores this quarter capital expenditures on existing stores hub store remodels and work on development of new stores for upcoming quarters.
For all of fiscal 2013 our CapEx is expected to be approximately $400 million.
With new stores opened we finished this past quarter with 4 735 stores in 49 states the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico; 334 stores in Mexico; and 1 in Brazil for a total store count of 5 070.
We also had a cash outflow during the second quarter of $115 million due to the AutoAnything acquisition.
Depreciation totaled $52.3 million for the quarter versus last year's second quarter expense of $47.5 million.
With our excess cash flow we repurchased $185 million of AutoZone stock in the second quarter.
At the end of the quarter we had $603 million remaining under our share buyback authorization.
Our leverage metric was slightly above 2.5x EBITDAR this past quarter.
We ran higher than usual this past quarter due to our completed acquisition for AutoAnything.
We have traditionally remained right at 2.5x.
Again I want to stress we manage to appropriate credit ratings and not any one metric.
The metric we report is meant as a guide only as each trading firm has its own criteria.
We continue to view our share repurchase program as an attractive capital deployment strategy.
Accounts payable as a percent of gross inventory finished the quarter at 110%.
Next I'd like to update you on our inventory levels in total and on a per-store basis.
We reported an inventory balance of $2.8 billion up 7% versus the Q2 ending balance last year.
Increased inventory reflects new store growth along with additional investments and coverage for select categories.
Inventory per store was up 2.6% reflecting our continued investments in hard parts coverage.
Finally as Bill previously mentioned our continued disciplined capital management approach resulted in return on invested capital for the trailing 4 quarters of 32.4%.
We have and will continue to make investments that we believe will generate returns that significantly exceed our cost of capital.
As the last point I'd like to point out that this year fiscal year 2013 has an extra week in it.
More specifically the extra week will fall during the fourth quarter.
Already our longest quarter in terms of number of weeks this year's fourth quarter will have an extra week taking us to 17 total weeks in Q4.
As a result our year will end this year on August 31.
The last time we had an extra week in our financials was fiscal 2008 and we would encourage each of you to review the impact this extra week had on our performance in Q4 2008 to better understand the impact this extra week will have on our fourth quarter and fiscal 2013 results.
Now I'll turn it back to Bill Rhodes.
Thanks Bill.
We are pleased to report our 26th consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings per share growth and reported EPS growth rate of 15% for our fiscal second quarter.
Clearly our sales performance has not met our expectations as we had experienced softer sales over the past few quarters.
In large part we believe it has primarily been attributable to macro factors.
Now regarding current sales trends we report our earnings 2.5 weeks after the end of our quarter.
Historically we've had a practice of not discussing our results for the current quarter because it is such a short timeframe.
It just isn't prudent to try to assess our trajectory off of such a short period of time.
We did attribute our performance in the last 2 weeks to the 2-week delay in tax refunds.
The reason we called out that 2-week periods performance was because it was such a significant change.
Recently we have begun to see some of those refunds show up in our performance.
But from the information we have tax refunds are still significantly below the prior year.
As an organization we don't want to be victims of a challenging macro environment nor do we want to be reliant on strong macro trends to drive our success.
We must continue to modify our game plan in order to succeed in good and not-so-good selling environments.
We've historically been able to do that and we're built to do that going forward.
Our organization is well adept at quickly altering our activities to appropriately respond to the current sales environment.
While doing so we have also -- we also have a strong commitment to continue to deliver WOW! Customer Service and drive sales.
We believe the initiatives we have outlined are accomplishing that objective and our customer surveys reinforce that belief.
Keep in mind that roughly half of our product sales are failure-related.
What's great about that statistic is in good times and bad we will sell those items.
We cannot insist customers to proactively replace those parts.
Last year's mild winter we believe contributed to less failures and lower levels of maintenance.
As we begin to experience the effects from a more normalized winter this year we expect trends to improve.
Again we're excited about our initiatives around inventory assortment hub stores Commercial growth Mexico ALLDATA E-Commerce and Brazil.
Our charge remains to optimize our performance regardless of market conditions and continue to ensure we are investing in the key initiatives that will drive our long-term performance.
In the end delivering strong EPS growth and ROIC each and every quarter is how we measure ourselves.
Despite this quarter's sales weakness we are quite pleased with our earnings per share growth and our return on invested capital for Q2.
Our long-term model is to grow new store square footage in a low single-digit growth rate and we expect to continue growing our Commercial business at an accelerated rate.
Therefore we look to routinely grow EBIT dollars in the mid-single digit range or better in times of strength.
And we leverage our very strong and highly predictable cash flow to repurchase shares enhancing our earnings per share growth into double digits.
This model had been quite successful for an extended period of time.
Finally I want to again thank our entire organization for their dedication to our customers fellow AutoZoners stockholders and communities.
Our approach remains consistent.
We're focused on succeeding in the third quarter of 2013 and we are excited about the next 2 quarters' opportunities.
Thank you for your time.
Now we'd like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Kate McShane with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> My question is on the Commercial business.
I think you had said during prepared comments that you expect 300 new programs for 2013 is that correct? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Which sounds in line with what you did in 2012 so I was just wondering with your investment -- your emphasis on investment in Commercial in the hub system and the sales force why we can't see an acceleration in the program growth this year? Yes actually it's going to be down this year but that's consistent with our plan.
Last year we opened 400 programs this year we're saying we're opening roughly 300 programs.
We want to make sure that we -- the most important part of opening a Commercial program is to make sure that we have the right resources in place and particularly the right people resources.
One of the things we learned last year when we opened 400 programs it was a strain to make sure that we had the right people in place to start those programs.
This year we decided to back off a little bit but opening 300 programs is still a pretty aggressive growth trajectory.
We just want to make sure that we can do it right.
We're in this for the long term and we think 300 program growth which is over roughly 10% is pretty aggressive.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you comment at all on any changes that may be different in the competitive environment in Commercial this year versus last year? Yes.
I don't think that there's any significant competitive changes in the Commercial environment.
I think everybody's out there fighting in a pretty tough environment particularly in the Northeast and the Midwest.
What we hear from our customers on the Commercial side is car counts are down.
It's a tough business right now and so everybody's out there we're out there trying to give our best to make sure we provide them great service.
Our next question is from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First of all obviously lots of other retailers from Walmart to many restaurants and others have discussed tax refunds.
But this is not the first time I guess in the history of your business that we've seen tax refunds fluctuate in the environment.
So is there anything that you see about ticket or the kind of transaction that you're witnessing that would suggest to you that beyond the environmental influences that this is actually the culprit for the recent drop off? Yes.
Matt first of all as you know I've been in this business for 18 years.
I've never seen this what we experienced in those last 2 weeks.
Now we've always known that we had this huge ramp typically in the last 2 weeks of our quarters.
So we've always been frankly pretty darn nervous.
Always saying "What happens if that ramp doesn't mature at some point in time?" Well guess what? We found out this year and it hurt us.
Fortunately we had very effectively managed our business before that point in time and we still delivered pretty reasonable results considering the sales environment.
Yes in the last 2 weeks we saw material degradation in the ticket because people are not doing the kind of jobs that they typically do when they get that flow of money which is their tax refunds.
That's the only reason we've ever been able to appoint for the reason our sales spiked so much in those last 2 weeks and so I think we found out this year.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then a second question if you look at your Commercial sales per store from peak to trough you probably have seen a bit of a bigger dip in growth rates than you have in DIY? And as you think about the maturation of your roll out you think about the fact that the incremental stores you're opening might be in regions we've already achieved some initial penetration.
What's your up-to-date thinking on the white space that you have and the ability to continue to comp in Commercial say once weather normalizes as a factor in your business? Yes.
I'd first of all say we opened the most productive programs first.
So as we get deeper in the cycle those store -- programs they're in the markets that don't have the same kind of potential as the ones we did in the first part.
Now we still think they have great potential and we still have 2.5% market share so we think that white space is amazing as we look out.
Look we -- our performance in Commercial has been disappointing.
We've gone from growing 20% to growing roughly 9% this quarter 10% when you adjust for those days.
But what we've seen is we're continuing to grow pretty significant market share in Commercial.
We think we have a long-term plan to grow it and we're going to be able to do just fine.
Research Division</strong> And just lastly I have to clean up.
You obviously have the regional differences.
If you could just update us if you look at cold-weather markets versus the rest of the country whether the Commercial DIY relationship is different in those 2 groups of markets.
Yes it is not different.
The numbers are different because as you highlighted the growth trajectory at Commercial has been different.
But directionally the trends are very very similar.
Our next question is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bill you had noted that your productivity per program is 40% 50% lower than some of your competitors but there's not any inherent reason for it to run at that big of a discount.
When we talked with some of the technicians and asked them why do you choose AutoZone or why do you choose some of your competitors? The one pushback that we hear on AutoZone is the quality of the parts that are available and delivery times.
Certainly AutoZone has not had made the same investment in distribution as some of your competitors have with the exception of the hub stores.
So when you think about closing that productivity gap is it going to require a significant capital investment on the part of AutoZone? Yes.
At this point in time we think our strategy is fantastic.
The biggest thing that we're working on is the continued evolution of these hub stores.
Yes in-local market availability is critical to our success frankly in Commercial and Retail.
And so what we're trying to do is leverage our hub stores so that we can have the best in-local market availability in the industry.
And we think when we do that we'll be fine.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up question your comments about the weakness in brakes and rotors and the other 3 cold-weather markets is consistent with your competitors.
But can you draw a link between what happened with warmer weather last February and March to why brake replacement rates would be dropping so quickly in that region of the country? I mean after all the changes in gasoline prices are about the same in the North as they are on your sunbelt markets.
Miles driven is not significantly different in the North than in the Sunbelt markets.
You would think that the failure rate or the replacement needs for brakes would be almost identical? Yes.
Intuitively I would have thought that as well Dan and I have never seen this kind of an issue in the past.
But as we've gotten out and talked to our AutoZoners who were talking to their customers and talked particularly to our Commercial shops what we're hearing is the road conditions had a big part of that last year that the lack of salt and brine and the things that they do to deal with high levels of snow put less wear and tear on those brake components.
The fewer holes and the potholes on road the less wear and tear in chassis components and the like.
And it's been remarkable how significant those -- how significantly poorer those categories have performed just in the Midwest and the Northeast.
And so at this point in time that's our best thinking.
And as we've said before we're going to know in April.
Frankly if we kind of get to April and they're not improving we were wrong and we've got to figure out what it's going to take to grow in the future.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Are you working on a contingency plan now if sales still don't come back in April? No.
As you talked about everybody's saying the same thing.
So I don't think we're standing on this island by ourselves.
We'll move on to the next question Gary Balter with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It's Simeon for Gary.
You mentioned inflation in the prepared remarks I think you said some cost increases for next year at a slower rate.
In the past we've also talked about innovation driving the ticket and granted that the recent trends are obscured by weather.
But can you talk about where we are in that cycle? Is there more innovation coming through product so that when we see the maintenance repair or some of the deferred maintenance pick back up you could get a bigger inflation or innovation lift? Yes I think that's a good way to think about it Simeon.
I mean we have not seen a lot of inflation and our expectation is that we will not see inflation certainly from a commodity-based product standpoint.
But from an innovation standpoint we continue to see that.
As the newer cars continue to work their way through from an aging perspective we continue to see some -- I'd hate to call it inflation but inflation in the pricing from an innovation standpoint.
So our expectation is that -- and it's very consistent with our model over time is that traffic has been down consistently over time in this industry for a very long period of time and we continue to see either commodity book price inflation which we're not seeing a lot of now or product innovation inflation which we continue to see.
But our expectation is that will continue in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then following on to the question that was asked about infrastructure I think Bill Rhodes mentioned that the speed to market and the end-market availability is important.
And I think the speed-to-market that AutoZone delivers is pretty good but what about the selection? Does the hub model give you the ability to go as deep as you want or as you can in terms of product selection? Yes Simeon and we spend a lot of times looking at that.
And if you look at the sales trends of the SKUs the percentage of sales that we get in the high velocity SKUs versus the tail SKUs it's remarkable how quickly that tail goes down how slow the slower-moving products turn.
But we have to have those slow-moving products because we need them to be able to build a relationship with our customers.
So we believe the thing that we need to do is continue to build out our hub stores.
As I've said in our prepared remarks we now have 77 hub stores that we've expanded the size of so we can significantly increase the assortment.
And as we continue to build those larger expansions we go deeper and deeper so that we can find where that sweet spot is.
Research Division</strong> And are you able to track -- if you don't have a product because it's either not carried is that a number that you track? And is that number -- is it small number or trending down? Yes absolutely we can track it.
And as we continue to improve these hub stores yes it goes down in those hub stores.
Our hub penetration continues to grow and frankly meet -- exceed our expectations.
Our next question is from Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I have a housekeeping question and a bigger picture follow-up.
The AutoAnything acquisition how much does that add in terms of sales in the quarter? Or help us back out how much that ALLDATA and E-Com line was excluding the acquisition? Yes I think AutoAnything was probably sub-$20 million for the quarter overall in sales.
And from an earnings perspective it was negligible impact overall.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if I just -- just backing out a little if I put in $15 million that ALLDATA and E-Commerce line back that out maybe 5% or 10% growth? Is that about right? Yes it would be probably in the neighborhood.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second maybe a little bigger picture is I think in the release and Bill on your prepared comments you talked about getting back to a more normalized volume.
What would you consider normalized volume? That's a great question Greg.
Obviously over the last 4 years our industry had seen significant strength and you've certainly seen it in our same-store sales performance over the last 3 years before the last 12 months.
I think there were clear industry tailwinds during that period of time that benefited all of us.
I think right now we've got some pretty significant industry headwinds.
So my personal point of view is that it's probably somewhere in between.
Research Division</strong> So if we were to say normalized volume was slightly positive still 1% or 2% would you -- [indiscernible] up on that some normal inflation? Yes.
I think the normalized volume is definitely positive.
And I think on the DIY business the components of that may be that customer count continues to be pressured but is offset by the structural increases in average ticket due to the technological advancements in parts and the innovation that Bill Giles was talking about a few minutes ago.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And Bill maybe on the inflation a follow-up....
Greg I can't hardly hear you I don't know if you can speak up.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry just a follow-up on Simeon's question on inflation.
Just as a reminder what was it a year ago? Right now it's basically flattish was it a couple percent a year ago? Yes I'd say it's probably just a couple of percent a year ago maybe a little bit less than that.
And I think the year before that it was much higher.
Our next question is from Aram Rubinson with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> A question just around the types of vehicles that you're seeing.
Is there a way to look at the business by class of vehicle or SUVs versus sedans or age of vehicle? Just trying to get a sense on the shifting vehicle population effect on the business.
And then I had a follow-up.
Yes.
We don't look at it that specific on those things -- the thing we do look out the most is the age of the vehicles but we don't see any material shift as you've seen from AAIA's numbers that the average age of vehicles continues to eke up a little bit I think it went from 10.6 to 10.8.
So I don't think there's any material changes in the mix of products we're selling.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up I had once thought that ALLDATA could be kind of a useful tool in getting into the Commercial business which you've kind of got your network kind of installed in the garages already.
Can you talk about how you either decided to use that or not use that and whether or not it's been effective or maybe it wasn't quite as I -- as it laid out? That's a good question.
I mean we think that ALLDATA is a stand-alone business and it's been very effective for us.
They've got a very high market share from a repair and diagnostic standpoint and they continue to add additional products whether it be shop manager -- market et cetera.
So they've done a great job and continuing to penetrate it.
We continue to seek opportunities to be able to bridge some of the synergies that exist between ALLDATA and our overall Commercial business.
They're not probably as problem as you would think intuitively because they're very different businesses and they're providing different things to the shops very different sales force very different skill set from the sales force perspective.
So I would say that there are some synergies probably not as high as you're thinking.
Our next question is from Chris Horvers with JPMC.
Research Division</strong> I did want to just follow up a bit on the past 2.5 weeks the commentary that you said Bill.
It looks like tax refunds have flattened out here in the past couple of weeks.
So should we interpret that these weeks look a lot more like the first 10 weeks of the quarter you just reported? Or how should we think about that? Yes I'm going to go back to what I've said in the prepared remarks.
I don't want to -- we called out those specific 2 weeks because they were in the quarter and they were vastly different than our other experiences and we felt like we had a good handle on what drove it.
But this time of year there is such volatility in our business because the weather patterns change day-to-day and week-to-week.
What we see is that the overall tax refunds are still substantially behind last year and we don't necessarily know what the trajectory of how people are going to spend those tax refunds are.
I don't want to get in -- any further into that 2.5-week period of time except to say clearly we're not running the negative 8 that we called out before but they're still a lot variability in our sales at this point.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
So is there a way to say -- or how are you thinking about what you get back from these deferred refunds? So is there a way to say is it simple enough to say hey discretionary is x percentage of sales this time of year and that's what we could potentially forego? Or how do you think about it? I think that we don't have a good way to think about it because we haven't experienced it before.
We believe when market flows in the -- when money flows in economy particularly through our kind of customers that they get caught up on a lot of their maintenance and repair work.
And I see no reason that that will happen again this year.
But then you do worry about the timing changes.
Hopefully that will benefit us even more.
If we can get some nice breaks in the weather and people want to get out and work on their car it might be to our benefit.
We just don't know at this point.
Research Division</strong> That's a good segue on the warm weather side do you think that that sequential increase into weeks 11 and 12 last year and likely February and March's is there -- have you done the analysis to say how much of that just warm weather pull-forward out of that April May timeframe? Yes.
Clearly the mix of business that we did last year in those weeks was very different.
We were experiencing a lot of -- we talked last year about the fact that we -- a lot of the spring categories got pulled forward into that period of time.
But the overall trajectory of the business in weeks 11 and 12 was very consistent with the last 5 or 6 years that we'd had.
Now the mix we might have been selling batteries while this last year we were selling brake pads.
But overall we have always seen that significant lift and it didn't happen this year.
Research Division</strong> And then finally Bill Giles maybe could you talk about how you -- the long-term EPS double-digit growth algorithm.
I guess how long would you have to stay flat or negative for that algorithm not to hold true? I think if you look back historically I mean the organization has done a very good job of managing our expense structure in line with our environment that we're performing in.
And so I mean this is a good example of our company and virtually every facet of the organization doing a really good job of assessing their expense structure needs and cutting back where they need to.
And so if you look back even before our business took off in '09 we were successful in growing our EPS growth at a double-digit rate and a flat comp.
And so obviously we don't believe that flat comp is in our future.
We believe the industry will remain healthy and that we will continue to gain market share.
But we certainly believe that we can -- the model that Bill articulated in his prepared remarks is the model that we can operate into the future.
And certainly at a slightly positive comp we can perform very well.
Our next question is from Michael Lasser with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Can you provide us with the mix of business between maintenance failure discretionary for the Commercial side versus I think you've provided the overall? Yes we typically stick with the overall.
In fact I don't even have the Commercial numbers in front of me to give you a view of that.
Although that's going to be probably a little bit more weighted towards the failure than on the DIY side.
But I don't have the -- we don't disclose those numbers exactly.
Clearly the discretionary side would be way down so that would change that.
Research Division</strong> When you look at the performance of sales to existing Commercial customers how did that compare -- how has that compared over time? Has that basically tracked the overall performance of Commercial? Or has that been higher or lower? I would say it has basically tracked the overall performance in Commercial.
I think that what we're seeing is that we're still gaining good traction out of our existing customers and more importantly our older programs continue to perform well.
Obviously we clearly have opportunities based on this quarter's performance to improve our overall performance.
But existing customers continue to do well.
Research Division</strong> And then the last question on that.
Are you also seeing -- because you indicated that some of the newer programs haven't been as productive are you seeing any increases in cannibalization rates as a result? Yes.
I think over time we will see some impact of cannibalization.
That will probably affect the overall numbers but the reality of it is is that as Bill said before we've got a very small market share and we've got a lot of work to do in order to capture more and more market share.
The one thing I would mention on the newer programs I wouldn't so much say that the newer programs are less productive it's that we have a higher percentage of newer programs in the mix.
And as a result of that from a math perspective it winds up taking down your average weekly sales for the total 3 000 programs.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Bill Rhodes for any closing comments.
Great.
Before we conclude the call I'd like to take a moment to reiterate that our business model continues to be solid.
We're excited about our growth prospects for the year.
We will not take anything for granted as we understand our customers have alternatives.
Our culture remains our key point of differentiation from our competition and we must not lose sight of the importance of basic store execution in order to remain very successful.
We have a solid plan to succeed for the remainder of 2013.
But I want to stress that this is a marathon and not a sprint.
As we continue to focus on the basics and focus on optimizing long-term shareholder value we are confident AutoZone will continue to be very successful.
We thank you for participating in today's call.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you very much for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the AutoZone Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
This conference call will discuss AutoZone's second quarter financial results.
Bill Rhodes the company's Chairman President and CEO will be making a short presentation on the highlights of the quarter.
The conference call will end promptly at 10 a.m.
Central Time 11 a.m.
Eastern Time.
Before Mr.
Rhodes begins the company has requested that you listen to the following statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Certain statements contained in this presentation are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use words such as believe anticipate should intend plan will expect estimate project position strategy and similar expressions.
These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends current conditions expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including without limitation: credit market conditions; the impact of recessionary conditions; competition; product demand; the ability to hire and retain qualified employees; consumer debt levels; inflation; weather; raw material costs of our suppliers; energy prices; war and the prospect of war including terrorist activity; availability of consumer transportation; construction delays; access to available and feasible financing; and changes in laws or regulations.
Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 25 2012 and these risk factors should be read carefully.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone's 2013 Third Quarter Conference Call.
With me today are Bill Giles Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer IT and ALLDATA; and Brian Campbell Vice President Treasurer Investor Relations and Tax.
Regarding the third quarter I hope you've had an opportunity to read our press release and learn about the quarter's results.
If not the press release along with slides complementing our comments today is available on our website www.autozoneinc.com.
Please click on Quarterly Earnings Conference Calls to see them.
To begin this morning I want to thank all AutoZoners across the globe for another very solid quarter.
Similar to last year our sales performance included some significant volatility over the 12-week period.
From our perspective the most important takeaways from the quarter were: one trends improved during the last 4 weeks of our quarter; two our sales trends in the most challenged markets also improved; three retail sales improved during these last 4 weeks on both a 1-year and a 2-year basis with positive same-store sales results in that period a trend we have not been able to report for quite some time; four we opened 102 new commercial programs in the quarter and expect Q4 Commercial sales to improve from here; and lastly the capital allocation and earnings model for our company remains strong and intact.
Our ability to manage in good sales environments and not so good has allowed us to deliver 27 consecutive quarters of double-digit EPS growth.
That consistency allows us to be shareholder-friendly through our stock buybacks and bondholder-friendly through a targeted investment grade rating and financial transparency.
We are excited about our opportunities to grow our business in both this quarter and in future periods.
We continue to manage this company for both short-term and long-term optimum performance.
We continue to execute our strategies to improve the customer shopping experience the initiative that we call Great People Providing Great Service! We also grew our commercial program counts sales and profitability opening 102 programs for the quarter.
We expanded 5 additional hub locations during the quarter to take our total remodel hub locations to 82.
These remodels entail adding additional inventory into the market that benefits both our Retail and Commercial businesses.
We also opened 2 new hub locations for the quarter finishing with 154.
Additionally we substantially completed the integration of our purchase of AutoAnything from back in December.
On last quarter's conference call we spoke of sales challenges we saw in the last week of January and the first week of February.
Those weeks' results were what I'll call severely negative and brought our quarterly results down.
While I'm happy to say the money did flow back to consumers throughout the quarter and appear to be essentially flat year-over-year in dollars refunded we didn't feel those 2 weeks were made up at any point during this third quarter.
This quarter started out slightly down for same stores ran negative in March and positive in April.
We do not contribute our performance improvement in April to tax refunds.
In fairness to our March results I need to point out that last year we had our best monthly results in March.
Specifically our northeastern and midwestern markets outperformed our remaining markets in last year's March.
This year these same markets materially underperformed the remaining markets through March.
There was approximately a 600-basis-point gap in performance up until the beginning of April.
I should point out weather patterns during March were not favorable.
We experienced cooler temperatures and snowfall that negatively impacted our results.
Once the weather warmed up a bit results did improve.
For the quarter the northeastern and midwestern markets underperformed our remaining markets in same-store sales by approximately 150 basis points on a total comp-store basis a noticeable improvement from the 500 basis points we have been discussing in previous quarters.
We continue to believe this regional and -- regional underperformance and more recent improvements to be weather-driven.
Last year's mild winter caused a material decrease in what we have classified as maintenance items sold.
Our belief is that this past winter's more normalized weather patterns should benefit us and our industry.
While the category of goods we classify as maintenance decreased year-over-year April's positive same-store sales results were attributable to this category's sales turning positive.
As we look forward to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 we are enthusiastic about the progress we're making on many of our initiatives.
This past year we have spent tremendous time on improving our inventory assortments with the result being reducing out of stocks and increasing our ability to say yes to our customers' requests.
We continue to utilize our hub network as a tool that will improve the 2 metrics mentioned.
As we continue to experience benefits from our hub stores' few additions it provides us with further insight into areas of potential opportunities.
As a result we are performing various tests to determine the optimal levels of inventory in our local stores and our hub stores.
As is customary for us we will learn from our testing and roll out those that make sense financially.
Listeners should expect us to always be learning and pushing ourselves to improve our results.
As previously mentioned this quarter's results marked our 27th consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings per share growth.
We're very pleased with our ability to consistently deliver strong EPS growth through our financial model of steady mid-single-digit EBIT dollar growth or better along with high-single-digit reductions in diluted share count through our share repurchases.
Our goal quarter-over-quarter continues to be to provide consistency to our shareholders our AutoZoners and most importantly our customers.
We feel this targeted consistency in both financial performance as well as execution of our key initiatives results in stability and confidence for all of our key constituents.
Next I'd like to discuss our sales results for this past quarter in more detail.
Our sales were up 4.5% and our same-store sales were down 0.1%.
This quarter's same-store sales results compared to last year's third quarter comps of 3.9%.
Our same-store sales results are a combination of both our domestic Retail and Commercial businesses.
I should point out our total Commercial sales were up 9.7% over last year's third quarter driven by a combination of existing program growth and the addition of 302 net new programs over the trailing 12 months.
In the last few earnings calls we have cautioned listeners that we wouldn't have a good read on our sales patterns until we lap last year's slowdown which began in April.
As highlighted previously April was a strong month.
But one month does not make a trend and the first 2/3 of the third quarter were softer than we had anticipated.
Our stated belief all along was the unusual weather patterns in the winter of 2011-2012 in that particular area of the country were the single largest contributor to the slowdown.
Since performance to date has been consistent with those beliefs we are cautiously optimistic as we head into our all-important summer selling season.
I use the word cautiously because we still have some concerns on the health of the consumer due to continued weakness in the broader economy and the recent reinstitution of the payroll taxes to recent norms.
This morning we want to call out some key accomplishments this past quarter.
We completed 5 additional hub projects this quarter taking our hub resets like to date to 82.
We continue to be quite pleased with the sales benefits from the reset hubs as we have increased the size and/or improved the location allowing us to expand the number of SKUs offered on a same-day basis in the market.
These SKUs have benefited both Retail and Commercial customers.
The proliferation of unique makes and models constantly rolled out each year continues to drive our need to add inventory.
We expect to discuss proper inventory placement for years to come.
We believe our evolving hub strategy better positions us to address this need.
Regarding Mexico.
We opened 7 stores this quarter and finished with 341 stores.
Sales in our other businesses achieved very solid sales results.
Our ALLDATA and eCommerce businesses which include autozone.com and autoanything.com continue to perform well increasing 79.9% over last year.
The significant increase was primarily attributable to the inclusion of AutoAnything which we acquired during Q2 of this fiscal year.
There are great opportunities for eCommerce sales growth on both a business-to-business basis and to individual customers or B2C.
While these businesses are relatively small for us at just 3.5% of our total sales mix we are experimenting to understand where the most potential exists.
At this point we still view our traditional autozone.com and AutoAnything as complements to our walk-in business.
Our objective is to provide exceptional service to all of our customers regardless of how they want to interact with us and we believe that leveraging the Internet is a powerful tool to meet their needs whether they're researching their purchase prior to visiting a store or having their products delivered straight to their home.
With continued aging of the car population we continue to feel positive trends exist for our industry in both DIY and DIFM.
With the recent decline in gas prices we are hoping to see an acceleration of miles driven.
Through February the latest data available this metric has been basically flat year-over-year.
We continue to remain bullish on our industry sales growth opportunities on both Retail and Commercial fronts over the long term.
As the vehicle population remains at an all-time high and consumers continue to look for good values while maintaining their vehicles we see AutoZone's opportunity to sell to these customers only growing.
Now let me review our highlights regarding execution of our operating plan for 2013 1TEAM Delivering WOW! The key priorities for the year: Great People Providing Great Service!; two profitably growing the Commercial business; three leveraging the Internet; four hub store improvements; and five leveraging technology to improve the customer experience while optimizing efficiencies.
On the Retail front this past quarter under the Great People Providing Great Service! theme we continued with our intense focus on improving execution.
We have dedicated great resources to training our AutoZoners on customer service and we feel we've done a great job at differentiating ourselves on this front.
The fifth key priority on leveraging technology is new this year.
We are designing enhancements to improve the information available to our AutoZoners at the point of sale while also making them more efficient and we are in the process of developing that functionality now.
At AutoZone we have a long and strong heritage of leveraging information technology to improve customer service and optimize efficiencies and this priority was added this year to enhance our focus in this area.
In regards to Commercial we opened 100 new -- 102 new programs this quarter.
Year-to-date we've opened 195 versus 287 through the third quarter last year.
We continue to expect to open approximately 300 stores for the year consistent with our annual plan.
Our past quarter's results were not where we would like.
The driver behind the results had not surprised us.
In particular regional performance discrepancies and weather impacted our business.
We continue to see Commercial as a material sales growth driver for us for many years to come.
Our results continue to provide us confidence to be aggressive in adding additional resources and new programs to this important growth initiative.
I'll take a moment now to talk more specifically about our third quarter performance in more detail.
Our domestic same-store sales declined 0.1% for the quarter.
As noted earlier our third quarter which ended May 4 did experience variability in month-to-month sales results.
As we've mentioned in previous quarters our performance in the northeastern and midwestern regions has been materially below that of the remainder of the country.
In fact the separation in results began in April of last year for us.
As we've said previously the category of sales we define as maintenance had the most challenging performance since that began.
With approximately 40% of our sales in this classification sales of this category were soft particularly in the subset of geographic regions previously discussed.
However we saw the sales in this category improve the last month of the quarter.
This improvement we believe is attributable to having more normal winter weather in these regions versus last year and we began to lap last year's slowdown.
This regional difference in results carries through to our Commercial business as well.
We will continue to invest to grow our Commercial business and penetrate a larger percentage of our existing store base.
As I said earlier ALLDATA and eCommerce which now includes AutoAnything had another fine quarter up 80% in sales from this time last year.
AutoAnything's inclusion in this bucket drove the majority of this growth.
This portion of our business while small as a percentage of our overall sales mix continues to experience faster sales growth than the auto parts stores.
We should also highlight another strong performance in return on invested capital as we were able to finish the second quarter at 32.3%.
We are very pleased with this metric as it is one of the best if not the best in all of hard lines retail.
However our primary focus has been and continues to be that we ensure every incremental dollar of capital that we deploy in this business provides an acceptable return well in excess of our cost of capital.
It is important to reinforce that we will always maintain our diligence regarding capital stewardship.
As the capital we invest is our investors' capital.
Before I pass the discussion over to Bill Giles to talk more about our financial results I'd like to thank and state how proud we are of our entire organization's efforts to manage this business appropriately these past few quarters.
We suspected the sales environment was going to be difficult during the first 3 quarters of this fiscal year.
And as is evident in our overall performance we aggressively managed our cost structure.
We are very proud of our organization and all that they continue to accomplish.
We have an amazing team and we are ready.
We are ready to continue to provide WOW! Customer Service to all of our customers and we are ready to continue to prudently manage our cost structure providing our shareholders with the consistency we have exhibited in the past.
Now I'll turn it over to Bill Giles.
Good morning everyone.
To start this morning let me take a few moments to talk more specifically about our Retail Commercial and international results for the quarter.
For the quarter total auto parts sales which includes our domestic Retail and Commercial businesses our Mexico stores and our one store in Brazil increased 2.9% on top of last year's third quarter's growth of 6.7%.
Regarding macro trends during the quarter nationally unleaded gas prices started out at $3.61 a gallon and ended the quarter at $3.54 a gallon a $0.07 decrease.
Last year gas prices increased by $0.27 per gallon during the quarter starting at $3.52 and ending at $3.79 a gallon.
We continue to believe gas prices have a real impact on our customers' abilities to maintain their vehicles and we will continue to monitor prices closely in the future.
We also recognize that the impact of miles driven on cars over 10 years old the current average is much different than on newer cars in terms of wear and tear.
Miles driven were up in January 0.6% but down versus last year 1.4% in February.
And the other statistic we highlight is the number of 7-year-old -- 7 year and older vehicles on the road which continues to trend in our industry's favor.
Lastly another key macro issue facing our customers today is the reinstitution of payroll taxes back to historic norms.
This reduction in our customers' take-home pay just began at the beginning of the new calendar year and at this point combined with the delay in income tax refunds and seasonal weather trends it is hard to objectively quantify the ramifications of this change.
However we believe this is and will continue to have a negative impact on our consumers' ability to spend.
For the trailing 4 quarters total sales for auto parts stores was $1 713 000.
This statistic continues to set the pace for the rest of the industry.
For the quarter total Commercial sales increased 9.7%.
For the third quarter Commercial represented 16.2% of our total sales and grew $32 million over last year's Q3.
Last year's Commercial sales mix percent was 15.4%.
As we have said previously overall we have been pleased with the progress we are making in our Commercial business both operationally and financially and we remain on track with our plans.
We believe there are ample opportunities for us to continue to improve many facets of our operations and offerings and therefore we're optimistic about the future of this business.
We continue to believe we can grow revenues in existing stores and we will continue to open additional Commercial programs.
This past quarter we opened 102 new programs versus 121 programs opened in third quarter of last fiscal year.
We now have our commercial program in 3 248 stores supported by 154 hub stores.
Approximately 900 of our programs are 3 years old or younger.
With only 68% of our domestic stores having any commercial program and our average revenue per programs materially below several of our competitors we believe there is ample opportunity for additional program growth in addition to improved productivity opportunities in current programs.
While we recognize that our Commercial sales productivity per program is well below our peers we do not believe there are any structural impediments that prevent us from achieving similar productivity numbers.
As we look forward we're focused on building upon the Commercial initiatives that have been in place for the last few years.
We have a very talented sales force and we are enhancing training and introducing additional technology to optimize the productivity of this sales force.
We have increased our efforts around analyzing customer purchasing trends and in-stock trends.
We feel our product distribution model is scalable going forward and we are continuing to test additional enhancements to our offerings.
We believe our strategy is the right one for the long run but it will be an evolution.
Our Commercial sales growth has recently been below our aspirations but we continue to be quite optimistic about our long-term growth potential as we believe we have the right strategy and people in place to continue to succeed.
In summary we remain committed to our long-term growth strategy.
We have accelerated the growth of our commercial programs having opened over 900 programs over the past 36 months.
Effectively 28% of the programs are 3 years old or younger.
We believe we are well positioned to grow this business and capture market share.
The regional variances in our Commercial sales results give us comfort our underperforming markets are not the direct cause of something we have specifically done.
We believe we can scale this business in a profitable manner.
We continue to be excited about our opportunities in this business for many years to come.
Our Mexico stores continued to perform well.
We opened 7 new stores during the third quarter.
We currently have 341 stores in Mexico.
We remain consistent with our strategy to open stores at a steady pace while managing our Mexico business for the long run.
We have operated stores in Mexico for over 14 years and we continue to see opportunity for growth going forward.
Our returns and profit growth have been in line with our expectations.
Now regarding Brazil we currently have one store opened and we are in various stages of development on future stores.
Our plans remain to open 10 to 15 stores over the next couple of years and then reevaluate our development as we refine our offerings and prove that our concept works for our customers and is financially viable.
At that point we will talk more on our long-term growth plans.
Recapping our second quarter performance for the company in total our sales for the quarter were $2 206 000 000 an increase of 4.5% from last year's third quarter.
Domestic same-store sales or sales for stores opened more than 1 year were down 0.1% for the quarter.
Gross margin for the quarter was 51.8% of sales up 20 basis points compared to last year's third quarter.
The improvements in gross margin were attributable to higher margins on merchandise growth [ph].
The increased merchandise margins were primarily due to lower acquisition costs.
In regards to inflation we have seen some increases in costs year-over-year but at a much slower pace than last year at this time.
At this point our assumption is we'll experience subdued producer pricing for the balance of the calendar year and therefore we feel costs will be predictable and manageable.
We will remain cognizant of future developments regarding inflation and will take the appropriate adjustments should they arise.
Looking forward we continue to believe there remains opportunity for gross margin expansion within both the Retail and Commercial businesses.
However we do not manage to a targeted gross profit margin percentage.
As the growth of our Commercial business has been the steady headwind on our overall gross margin rate for a few years we have to continuously work strategies to offset this.
Additionally AutoAnything has been a drag on our gross margins as this business model operates at a lower gross margin rate.
Our primary focus remains growing absolute gross profit dollars in our total auto parts segment which for the quarter increased approximately $43 million.
SG&amp;A expense for the quarter was 31.1% of sales lower by 24 basis points from last year's third quarter.
Operating expenses as a percentage of sales decreased primarily due to a gain on the disposal of certain assets and lower incentive compensation.
I want to take a moment to thank our entire team for their diligence on cost control which ultimately was a significant contributor to our performance in Q3.
We continue to believe we are well positioned to manage our cost structure for this foreseeable future.
EBIT for the quarter was $456 million up 6.7% over last year's third quarter.
Our EBIT margin improved to 20.7% or up 44 basis points versus the previous year's third quarter.
Interest expense for the quarter was $42.1 million compared with $39.7 million in Q3 a year ago.
As the fourth quarter will have an extra week we're modeling interest expense to be in the $62 million to $64 million range.
Debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $4 billion or approximately $395 million more than last year's third quarter balance of $3.6 billion.
Our adjusted debt level metric finished the quarter at 2.5x EBITDAR.
While in any given quarter we may increase or decrease our leverage metric based on management's opinion regarding debt and equity market conditions we remain committed to both our investment-grade rating and our capital allocation strategy and share repurchases are an important element of that strategy.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 35.8% flat with last year's third quarter.
We expect our tax rate to be 36.5% to 37% on an ongoing basis.
Net income for the quarter of $266 million was up 6.8% versus the prior year's third quarter.
Our diluted share count of 36.5 million was down 7.7% from last year's third quarter.
The combination of these factors drove earnings per share for the quarter to $7.27 up 15.8% over the prior year's third quarter.
Relating to the cash flow statement for the third fiscal quarter of 2013 we generated $385 million of operating cash flow.
Net fixed assets were up 9% versus last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $89 million and reflected the additional expenditures required to open 43 new stores this quarter capital expenditures on existing stores hub store remodels and work on development of new stores for upcoming quarters.
For all of fiscal 2013 our CapEx is expected to be approximately $400 million.
With the new stores opened we finished this past quarter with 4 767 stores in 49 states the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico; 341 stores in Mexico; and one in Brazil for a total store count of 5 109.
Depreciation totaled $52.9 million for the quarter versus last year's third quarter expense of $49 million.
With our excess cash flow we repurchased $325 million of AutoZone stock in the third quarter.
At the end of the quarter we had $278 million remaining under our share buyback authorization.
Our leverage metric was 2.52x EBITDAR this past quarter.
Again I want to stress we manage to appropriate credit ratings and not any one metric.
The metric we report is meant as a guide only as each rating firm has its own criteria.
We continue to view our share repurchase program as an attractive capital deployment strategy.
Accounts payable as a percent of gross inventory finished the quarter at 111%.
Next I'd like to update you on our inventory levels in total and on a per-store basis.
We reported an inventory balance of $2.8 billion up 6% versus Q3 ending balance last year.
Increased inventory reflects new store growth along with additional investments and coverage for select categories.
Inventory per store was up 2.2% reflecting our continued investments in hard parts coverage.
Finally as Bill previously mentioned our continued disciplined capital management approach resulted in return on invested capital for the trailing 4 quarters of 32.3%.
We have and will continue to make investments that we believe will generate returns that significantly exceed our cost of capital.
As the last point I'd like to point out that this year fiscal year 2013 has an extra week in it.
More specifically the extra week will fall during this fourth quarter.
Already our longest quarter in number of weeks this year's fourth quarter will consist of 17 weeks versus last year's 16 weeks.
As a result our year end this year -- our year will end this year on August 31.
The last time we had an extra week in our financials was fiscal 2008.
We would encourage each of you to review the impact this extra week had on our performance in Q4 2008 to better understand the impact it will have on our fourth quarter and fiscal 2013 results.
Now I'll turn it back to Bill Rhodes.
Thanks Bill.
We are pleased to report our 27th consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth and to report an EPS growth rate of 15.8% for our fiscal third quarter.
Clearly our sales performance has not met our expectations as we have experienced softer sales over the past few quarters.
Based on our recent results we continue to believe we should experience an improvement in sales for the remainder of the year.
The basis for this expectation is the confluence of a more normalized winter and easier sales comparisons combined with strong execution of our plans including enhanced product assortments improved productivity in our existing commercial programs and continued new commercial program growth.
The hardest things to predict for us when it comes to our performance are macro factors and in particular the weather.
Spring arrived much later than normal this year and materially later than last year and it clearly dampened our performance in the first 2/3 of the third quarter.
But we can't control the weather and over time its effects even out.
Ultimately our actions determine our performance and we continue to be pleased with the strategies we have in place and quite pleased with the execution of those strategies.
But that doesn't mean we aren't looking to improve.
We are constantly testing new ideas and innovations to determine what is successful and what isn't.
We will keep you apprised of our developments as they progress.
Again we are excited about our initiatives around inventory assortment hub stores Commercial growth Mexico ALLDATA eCommerce and Brazil.
Our long-term model is to grow new store square footage at a low-single-digit growth rate and we expect to continue growing our Commercial business at an accelerated rate.
Therefore we look to routinely grow EBIT dollars in the mid-single-digit range or better in times of strength and we leverage our very strong and predictable cash flow to repurchase shares enhancing our earnings per share growth into double digits.
We feel the track we are on will allow us to continue winning for the long run.
We believe our steady consistent strategy is correct.
It is the attention to details and consistent execution that will matter.
Our belief is solid consistent strategy combined with superior execution is a formula for success.
Our charge remains to optimize our performance regardless of market conditions and continue to ensure we are investing in the key initiatives that will drive our long-term performance.
In the end delivering strong EPS growth and ROIC each and every quarter is how we measure ourselves.
We are pleased with our earnings per share growth and ROIC for Q3 and we remain committed to delivering on our strategic and financial objectives.
Finally I want to again thank our entire organization for their dedication to our customers fellow AutoZoners stockholders and communities.
Our approach remains consistent.
We're focused on succeeding in the fourth quarter of 2013 and we are excited about our future opportunities.
Thank you for your time.
Now we'd like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today is from Alan Rifkin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions if I may.
First on the Commercial programs.
Can you maybe give a little bit of color on what the productivity levels are for the programs that are under 3 years old since it's such a significant portion compared to the more mature programs? And then I have a follow up please.
Yes Alan I don't want to get into too many specifics on it but clearly they're much less mature and they come out significantly below the existing programs.
The other thing that I think is important and I'm not sure everybody understands is as those programs open many times probably most of the time they also cannibalize the existing programs.
So some of the growth in the productivity of the Commercial programs right now is muted because we do have those 900 stores that over the last 3 years have done some cannibalization of the existing programs.
At the end of the day we're not meeting our aspirations but the underlying performance of the new programs and the existing programs when you take everything into account we're generally pleased with.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So for the select group of markets Bill like the west where you said was better and let's say the southeast where weather really was not an impact did those markets collectively perform on your plan? I think for the first 2/3 of this quarter I would say they were generally aligned with where our expectations were.
In the last 1/3 of the quarter frankly the northeast and midwest is where we really saw very strong performance as they rebounded in a significant way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly real quick the 82 expanded hubs I mean any sort of color as to how much more productive these hubs are? And do you ultimately plan to expand every single one of the 154? Yes.
Our objective is to expand all the 154.
Obviously we've made great progress so far getting 82 opened in less than 3 years -- 82 expanded or relocated in less than 3 years.
As we get farther down the cycle because these are real estate deals we've done the easy ones.
Now we have more complicated ones ahead.
So the pace will likely slow.
As for how they're performing this is the first time that we've ever deployed capital really for our hub stores.
If you think originally all we did was take existing space that was there and leverage it to put the product assortments.
So the easiest way for me to show you that they're meeting our expectations is we continue to make real estate acquisitions and build buildings because they're exceeding our expectation -- meeting or exceeding our expectations.
So we're pretty pleased with them.
Our next question is from Gary Balter with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It's Simeon Gutman for Gary.
Two questions.
First Bill Rhodes you talked a lot about the regionality.
And so I think that that kind of helps explain some of the I guess cyclical versus secular arguments.
Is there anything else you can point to be it age of vehicles or other factoids that they kind of point to that this is -- I guess a year ago's downturn was more cyclical? Yes.
I think we're going to stick with what we said for the last year.
This isn't a new story.
I think the last 3 calls we talked about the fact that we thought last winter the lack of winter in the midwest and northeast last year did not cause the same level of maintenance requirements or failure items because the roads weren't messed up.
So far that prognostication has come to effect but we're 1 month into it.
We've seen April come.
And I also want to reinforce the 2 points that we've made in our prepared remarks we're also a little concerned about the consumer.
This economy is still not booming particularly for the low-end consumer and we've seen them be in a difficult situation now for more than 4 years and they're all still trying to get readjusted to the reinstitution of payroll taxes.
Research Division</strong> So how should we think about that in terms of weighing off -- obviously the weather is driving -- helping the comps and we think will continue to help the comps as you've talked about.
But at what level does that get hurt? Or like what say -- where does that kind of peak out because you still have this macro issue overriding it? Simeon your voice changed.
Hello Gary.
Research Division</strong> Got a Canadian accent.
Gary here's the deal.
That's what you guys do.
You guys are as good at this as we are.
We're going to plan our business conservative like we always do hope for upside and make sure that we continue to deliver strong performance.
I can't tell you sitting here today what the number is and you know that that's not our practice to provide guidance.
Research Division</strong> And last one if the weather markets do get better and maintenance categories start picking up what does that mean for gross margin? Does it bode well for gross margin? How does it mix out? I think overall we've had good performance on gross margin.
Think back that we had some lower acquisition costs this quarter frankly for the last 3 or 4 quarters.
So as we get into Q4 we'll likely begin to anniversary some of the lower acquisition costs that we experienced over the last year or so.
So we expect gross margin in and of itself to remain reasonably healthy.
Also in the spirit of full and fair disclosure AutoAnything will obviously have a negative impact to gross margin.
That impacted us about 40 basis points this quarter.
That's probably a fair number for next quarter as well.
And then at some point we'll anniversary that and move forward.
Like we say we always manage gross profit on terms of dollars not so much rate.
Our next question is from Colin McGranahan with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I know you're tired of talking about the spread between the cold weather markets and not but I'm a little confused here.
So if you can first just get the facts right for me.
Did you say in March there was a 600-basis-point spread between the cold weather markets and the rest but for the quarter was 150 bps? Yes.
What we said Colin was it's been about 500 for the last few quarters.
Q3 to date through the end of March it was 600 basis points and it ended the quarter only with 150 basis points which means it significantly outperformed in the month of April.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry the whole quarter was 150? Or at the end of the quarter it was running 150? The whole quarter was 150.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So that would mean that the cold weather market significantly comped positive above the rest of the house in April? That would be correct.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So how do you -- we think about that in terms of just -- obviously February and March were really bad and the normal spring maintenance that would have happened in March didn't happen because the weather was so bad.
How do we think about that just getting pushed into April? Yes.
I think several things.
Number one I don't want to get too excited and we're not getting too excited about 1 month.
We have variability in our sales all the time week-to-week month-to-month and I don't want that to get overstated by any stretch.
Now there's a couple of things that made it happen in April this year.
Number one the tax refund benefit that we normally see late January early February never materialized.
A lot of times that comes in deferred maintenance and people get out and do those jobs.
That never happened this year.
Also last year March was particularly strong in the northeast and midwest as we called out and April was pretty weak.
Well this year it was very cold and very wet throughout March in that part of the country.
All of a sudden they got some glimmers of improved weather in April and there was pent-up demand they took -- they did it.
But again I don't want to get too crazy about -- or too exuberant about the performance in those markets in April.
One month doesn't make a trend.
We got a long way to go.
We got a lot of sales that we feel like we're owed in that part of the country.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fair.
And then maybe just a bigger picture.
I know that you have for a long time looked at miles driven as the longest-term indicator of the health of the business and especially miles driven on older cars.
Any thoughts on why we haven't seen any real recovery in miles driven since the recession? I think that it really kind of speaks a little bit to -- Bill talked about it before.
I mean we don't really necessarily see the economy picking up.
Unemployment rate is down a little bit but the fact is there's still a significant number of people unemployed and maybe even off of the charts.
So miles driven has been relatively flat as you pointed out.
Gas prices have been moderately flat.
The age of the vehicles continue to increase so that's helpful for our business over the long haul.
Obviously miles driven on a 10-plus-year-old vehicle is more impactful than it is on a brand-new vehicle as far as maintenance and wear and tear is concerned.
So we think that that continues to create decent demand and decent industry tailwinds overall.
But in terms of miles driven it's been relatively flat and we don't anticipate that changing dramatically.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Final quick one market share.
Any sense of how you did? Yes.
We continue to do fine on market share.
Our gaps have closed over a period of time and there have been months where -- in the retail sector where we've lost a little bit of market share.
But they've shown significant improvements as we've seen our sales start to rebound.
Our next question is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bill Giles you commented on your prepared comments that you do not see any structural impediments for your Commercial sales program matching some of your competitors.
I guess you're referring to NAPA and O'Reilly.
When you indicated no structural impediment do you think you can achieve that productivity with your current distribution strategy that does not include same-day fulfillment from your large distribution centers? Although the way to think about it is that we do have same-day delivery out of the hubs.
And so when you hear us talk about the 154 hubs that we have out there the 82 hubs that we have expanded over the last 2 or 3 years and we'll have several more hubs that will continue to be expanded over the next couple of years and we continue to really optimize those hubs both in terms of coverage as well as delivery our objective is really to get those products into the marketplace so they can be delivered on a same-day basis out of the hubs.
And so the distribution centers will be a backup support for that.
But the real key is for us to forward deploy inventory right into the marketplace so that we can get it to the customers as quick as we can.
And we think the hub strategy is the one that will get us there.
And we obviously have work to do.
We're not there yet but you'll see us continue to invest in hubs and you'll see us continue invest in inventory.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> When you look at the 3 000 programs that are in place today do you have a meaningful number that are achieving the same weekly sales volumes as those more established commercial competitors? We certainly have programs out there that are achieving the numbers that you would see from our established competitors without question.
And so obviously from our perspective it's meaningful.
And it also indicates to us that -- and that's kind of how we make that statement is that there's no structural impediments because we actually have programs out there that are actually delivering that.
So we know it is possible.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then the last question I had revolves expenses.
It sounds like there may have been a few one-timers in the quarter got a lower incentive comp talked about a gain on sale of an asset.
What do you think is the sustainable growth rate in SG&amp;A going forward? We're going to manage SG&amp;A -- and you've always heard me say this is that we're going to manage SG&amp;A given the sales environment that we're operating in.
I mean with respect to the sale on asset I mean we always have periodically some sale on assets.
The fact of the matter is the organization really did a good job this quarter as they do most all quarters of really tightly managing the expenses based on the sales environment that we are operating in.
And so there really wasn't a lot of significant fluctuation which is why we called out the ones that we did.
But I think on a long-term basis we're going to continue to tightly manage expenses and we're going to respond to the sales environment that we're competing in.
Our next question is from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Matt Vigneau on for Matt Fassler.
I had one question about inventory.
Would like to ask about the opportunities for incremental investment and your assessments on the returns you're achieving and where the opportunity is greatest within DIY versus Commercial.
Yes.
I would say they're equally opportunistic.
One of the things that we find as we continue to invest in inventory particularly to hubs as well as the individual satellite stores or the individual retail stores themselves is that we get inventory productivity out of both Commercial and DIY which is the beauty of the model overall is that we have an ability to really leverage the inventory from both a DIY and Commercial perspective.
Every time that we add inventory many times it may be focused on Commercial.
The fact is that we get benefits out of both.
And so from a return perspective obviously we have stringent return metrics overall.
But at the end of the day we need to make sure that we've got adequate coverage in the marketplace and we're going to continue to invest in inventory to ensure that we have adequate coverage in the marketplace in order for us to further gain market share.
I don't know if that answers it but that's how we look at it.
Our next question is from John Lawrence with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Bill would you start off with just talking a little bit on the Commercial side? Through this volatility you talked about the last couple of years how would you talk about sales force productivity who they're calling on the chains or the independents and how does that sort of ebb and flow throughout this volatility? Yes.
I think I'd start with how pleased we are with the development of our sales force.
You step back 5 years ago we didn't have a sales force and now we have a very professional sales force.
And our organization has really spent a tremendous amount of time training our sales force to do it the AutoZone way and also providing them with the tools a lot of which are technological tools to make them incredibly efficient and also gives us great insights into where they're spending their time and what are the results when they spend their time in certain areas.
But as far as trying to say where they're spending their time based upon the class of trade I would say they're spending a lot of time on both the national accounts and on the independent up and down the street operators.
Both of those are -- provide us tremendous opportunities and they're both performing fairly well.
Research Division</strong> And secondly could you give us a sense of what percentage of inventory or sales is Duralast products at this point? Our Duralast product continues to be probably just over 50%.
You've seen over time if you allow me to stretch back for a couple of years where we've actually introduced it into some additional categories that previously we may have thought were impossible Wiper Blades being a great example of that.
So as we continue to look forward obviously there's fewer opportunities because we're taking advantage of a lot of those opportunities.
But we still believe there's opportunities for us to continue to introduce the Duralast brand into other categories.
But today it's just over 50% with a slight increase.
Research Division</strong> And lastly AutoAnything.
Bill is there anything -- I know it's early but anything you've seen conceptually strategically that's different than you thought? Or opportunities that you see that you could share at this point? Yes I think that's right John.
It's a little too early to share much.
I mean it's -- we're very excited about the acquisition.
We're very excited about the team at AutoAnything.
We're excited about the customer base that they have the categories that they really penetrate strongly that are opportunistic for us.
And I think the synergies between the 2 organizations are just starting to take place.
So overall we're pleased with the acquisition.
And we think strategically on a long-term basis it'll be a great fit for our customer.
Our next question is from Bret Jordan with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions and one just housekeeping.
What was the SG&amp;A impact on the lower incentive comp in the quarter? Around 10 points or so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess as you look into the current quarter and the closing of the gap on regional performance it was 500-odd bps last year in Q4.
We've got a few weeks of May under our belt.
Is the trend continuing there that you can close that gap going forward? Yes Bret.
I don't want to get into what the trends in May since the end of the quarter are.
We have a very strong practice of releasing our earnings very quickly after the end of the quarter.
So here we are talking about this quarter after 2 weeks and 3 days.
And I just -- I don't think it's prudent for anybody to get into what's going on in the last 2-week trends.
So we tried to give you as much color as possible on April so you could understand that.
But as a general practice we don't want to get into the new quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question sort of following up on John's on the inventory trend and Duralast brand potential.
As you build out the Commercial mix and you add incremental hard parts is that something that is going to be a longer-term headwind to the Duralast mix as a percentage of sales? I mean are the Commercial customers looking for branded product? Or are you getting traction convincing them that the Duralast product line is as good as the branded alternative? No we get a lot of traction actually on the Duralast brand and so we don't believe that that's anything but positive.
And so if we thought that there was a branded product that would make a difference we'd introduce it.
But the fact is and we've done it many times before have found that the Duralast product -- it's a high-quality product and we get it into the hands of our Commercial customers and they see it.
And obviously we back it up with warranties et cetera.
And so that product continues to be received well.
And so we certainly don't see that as a hurdle for us to get over just the opposite.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question.
In AutoAnything and some of the more discretionary product mix that they carry are you saying that category working better across the stores as well as discretionary coming back at all beyond what you've added in the AutoAnything mix? Yes.
We've obviously -- it's relatively new at the moment.
AutoAnything is being operated relatively separate from the AutoZone stores at the moment.
And so we're continuing to evolve and develop AutoAnything.
But there are certainly SKU-intensive categories that exist on AutoAnything that lend themselves to online shopping and so that's our focus at the moment.
Long term there will be some opportunities for us to integrate the 2.
But at the moment they're being operated as a standalone.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you haven't changed.
I've seen some stores that seem to have a heavier discretionary mix in some performance parts and appearance accessories that you're not changing your SKU mix on the Retail format in some markets to sort of test that product out? No more than we would normally.
I wouldn't equate it to an AutoAnything transaction.
Our next question is from Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I've got a follow-up on inflation which is something that used to sort of run around 2% in the industry and then seemed to go away last year.
Could you give us an update on where we are with that and also the promotional environment given that everyone seems to able to buy stuff cheaper than they did a couple of years ago? Yes.
I think you hit it.
I mean the fact is is that I think probably -- you're right.
About 2 years ago we had some inflation last year.
It was relatively moderate.
And so far this year we're seeing it relatively moderate.
And that's why in our prepared remarks as Bill said we're seeing the pricing index not really look as though it's going to be increasing much.
So we don't see inflation being a positive or a negative necessarily.
It's kind of a neutral overall.
From a promotional perspective I would say that we're not really seeing anything different in the marketplace promotionally.
I mean there's certainly a category or a product here and there that might have some increased promotional activity for a short period of time.
But on an overall basis I would say that we're not necessarily seeing any kind of a change in promotional activity per se.
There will always be some price adjustments but not any kind of promotional activity per se.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just looking at the quarter Bill I think in your prepared remarks you mentioned that the 2-year comp was better as well.
Were you referencing April in that regard? Or were you talking just about the quarter? Yes that was specifically about April.
We did have a very strong April and I didn't want people to think it was a one-year lap.
So it was 2 years we've grown same-store sales.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And you -- so now that you look at all the Easter shifts and the weather and all that do you think the base that we're working with now for this quarter is something that's more normal? I hope so.
I think what we've been saying for the last 9 months is once we annualize that crazy winter last year in 2011 and 2012 we would anticipate more normalized run rates.
And so I think we're sticking with that at this point in time.
And then just also taking into -- taking into account also the macro effects that Bill talked about before with the payroll tax that's the one factor that we don't really know on a long-term basis what the impact is to our consumer.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just lastly on SG&amp;A given some of the puts and takes there and how you historically were able to bring that dollar growth down to basically flat or just up 1% or 2% way back when comps were flattish for a sustained period how do you think about SG&amp;A now? It seems like it should just on a dollar basis grow more than it would have 6 or 7 years ago given the growth in Commercial.
Am I thinking about that right? Or...
Yes I think you are.
I think the fact is is that we want to continue to invest in the business.
We want to make sure that we're continuing to deliver WOW! Customer Service and being able to take market share.
So we're all about making sure that we've got a good face to the customer and that we're providing great service.
And we're going to invest properly to do that.
That starts all the way from training to customer service to hubs and to inventory et cetera.
Our final question today is from Aram Rubinson with Nomura.
This is actually Chris Bottiglieri on for Aram Rubinson.
My question is as a newer entrant to the commercial space what changes do you expect to make in order to reach the next level of growth in your existing markets? Do you see that driven more by pricing? Is it going to be a change to sales or service? I think it's going to remain sticking with our strategy.
You've never heard us talk about price being a key driver.
We don't think -- we want to be a trusted partner with our Commercial customers and that means we want to sell them at a reasonable price.
We want to have the inventory that they need.
We want to get it to them as quick as humanly possible and really build a long-term relationship that certainly is broader than price.
All right.
Before we conclude the call I'd like to take a moment to reiterate that our business model continues to be solid.
We're excited about our growth prospects for the year.
We'll not take anything for granted as we understand our customers have alternatives.
Our culture remains our key point of differentiation from our competition and we must not lose sight of the importance of basic store execution in order to remain very successful.
We have a very solid plan to succeed for the remainder of the fiscal year but I want to stress that this is a marathon and not a sprint.
As we continue to focus on the basics and focus on optimizing long-term shareholder value we are confident AutoZone will continue to be very successful.
Before we close also I'd just like to wish everybody a very happy Memorial Day.
And obviously our thoughts are with those folks in Oklahoma who went through so much devastation yesterday.
So thank you for participating in today's call.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the AutoZone conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
This conference call will discuss AutoZone's fourth quarter financial results.
Bill Rhodes the company's Chairman President and CEO will be making a short presentation on the highlights of the quarter.
The conference call will end promptly at 10 a.m.
Central Time 11 a.m.
Eastern time.
Before Mr.
Rhodes begins the company has requested that you listen to the following statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Certain statements contained in this presentation are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use words such as believe anticipate should intend plan will expect estimate project positioned strategy and similar expressions.
These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends current conditions expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including without limitation: credit market conditions; the impact of recessionary conditions; competition; product demand; the ability to hire and retain qualified employees; consumer debt levels; inflation; weather; raw material costs of our suppliers; energy prices; war and the prospect of war including terrorist activity; availability of consumer transportation; construction delays; access to available and feasible financing; and changes in laws or regulations.
Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 25 2012 and these risk factors should be read carefully.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone's 2013 Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
With me today are Bill Giles Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer IT and ALLDATA; and Brian Campbell Vice President Treasurer Investor Relations and Tax.
Regarding the fourth quarter I hope you had an opportunity to read our press release and learn about the quarter's results.
If not the press release along with slides complementing our comments today are available on our website www.autozoneinc.com.
Please click on Quarterly Earnings Conference Calls to see them.
To begin this morning I want to thank all AutoZoners across the globe for another very solid quarter and year.
2013 was a very busy and productive year for us.
We reached 2 amazing milestones in our company's history.
First we surpassed $9 billion in sales finishing at $9.1 billion.
Second we crossed $2 billion in EBITDA another amazing milestone placing us an elite company across retail.
AutoZoners past and present built this business through hard work passion for customer service and dedication and we owe them a great deal of gratitude.
We've been growing our business on a variety of fronts.
Our U.S.
Retail business expanded again in 2013 with the opening of another 153 new stores.
Our Commercial business continues to gain traction growing sales 12.6% for the year with 368 net new programs opened.
We now have the commercial program in 71% of our domestic stores having opened 762 new programs in just the past 2 years.
We continue to expand our presence in Mexico and we've opened stores in Brazil with 3 stores now in operation.
We are expanding our online offerings in both our traditional autozone.com and autozonepro.com websites and we acquired AutoAnything in fiscal 2013.
Along with these strategic investments we spend a lot of time on our core domestic Retail business.
Our DIY business is by far the largest portion of our sales and it is very profitable.
We continue to see significant opportunities for new store growth improved productivity in existing stores and enhancements to our profitability.
This continues to be our #1 priority.
As our Commercial business continues to grow and it is intertwined with our Retail operations we've studied our distribution model closely.
The research we've done has led us to make some changes.
We've determined over time that our hub stores our larger market-centric stores require additional inventory.
Back in 2007 we would have said our hubs should be able to support surrounding stores with on average an additional 20 000 hard part SKUs.
Our research indicates that in many instances that isn't sufficient.
We are being more aggressive with inventory assortments in our hub stores today than in the past.
And due to our recent efforts on expanding the size and improving the location of our hubs we have positioned ourselves to accommodate those larger offerings.
In addition to these increases in hub store inventory levels we are also embarking on tests to substantially increase product availability in all stores.
Those tests are just beginning and while we are certain some of the changes won't provide us with acceptable returns we are confident we will find opportunities to further enhance our same-day inventory availability.
Historically our approach is one of idea generation strategic assessment and then testing.
While all of our tests aren't a success many of them have developed into key long-term strategies.
Our hubs in the new commercial strategy rolled out in recent years are 2 very good examples.
We carefully analyze all of our tests to ensure we are achieving the desired results.
We must continue to manage this organization to provide exceptional service for our customers provide our AutoZoners with a great place to work with opportunities for advancement and we must ensure we do it on a profitable basis to provide strong returns for our shareholders.
That means we must have a high degree of confidence in our plans before executing on a broad basis.
This week in Memphis we are hosting our national sales meeting all week.
And again during my address to the team tomorrow we are introducing the idea of creating customers for life.
We've always been focused on creating customers for life but that will be our annual operating theme this year in order to intensify our focus on it.
We've made significant systems investments and enhancements this past year in order to capture data about our customer's shopping patterns across all of our platforms.
We understand we have to be able to toggle between the store experience and the online experience in order to meet our customer's needs.
We have significant additional work in front of us but the national sales meeting this week we are introducing a new version of Z-net that will begin leveraging this information.
This enhanced system provides our team with additional tools that will allow them to provide our customers with better trustworthy advice and more effectively and efficiently ensure that every customer has what they need to do the job right the first time.
This system will be rolling out to our stores over the course of the first quarter.
We have a very exciting year planned in 2014.
I can confidently say we feel the actions we have taken and the investments we've made in 2013 position us to grow sales in 2014 across all of our lines of business.
While 2013 was a solid earnings year for our company flat same-store sales for the year was disappointing.
There were many factors that influenced our sales performance in 2013 but the bottom line is we didn't meet our goals or aspirations and that's on us.
It is time to grow sales in 2014.
I can promise you our game plan is well developed for the new year and our goal is to grow market share in 2014 while continuing to deliver solid earnings.
Now let's turn to our fourth quarter results.
Our sales increased 12% and on a comparable 16-week basis they were up 5.6%.
Our domestic same-store sales were up 1.0% on a comparable 16-week basis.
While we spent time the last few quarters talking about how the Northeast and Midwestern markets materially underperformed the remaining domestic stores that was not the story this past quarter.
Regionally the Northeast performed better than the overall chain.
However our Midwestern states' performance was still lagging albeit to a lesser degree.
Also we saw our maintenance-related sales accelerate this past quarter while their sales basically finishing on plan.
From our perspective the most important takeaways from the quarter were first certain failure-related merchandise categories underperformed this past quarter due in our belief to mild summer weather across most of the eastern United States.
In particular our air conditioning and battery businesses in this section of the country underperformed.
Normally we over-index in these categories during the summer months.
In fairness the last 2 summers had record-setting heat across most of the U.S.
This year it was milder.
Second this quarter we had slower growth in our average DIY ticket versus last year.
The lack of growth in our ticket was due to difficult comparisons in a select group of categories from the previous year.
Inflation and producer prices was flat this past year and we haven't experienced nearly the same level of commodity-based inflation as we have in recent years.
Therefore our pricing at Retail was basically flat.
We believe this trend will continue at least through the first quarter as pricing from our manufacturers has remained consistent.
Third and encouragingly our customer count trends improved significantly in Q4.
While they were still negative on the quarter we noticed a nice trend across certain non-weather-related merchandise categories and across the country.
Fourth we opened 173 new commercial programs in the quarter versus 107 programs last year.
This acceleration in openings during the quarter allowed us to open 368 net new programs for the full year reaching 71% of our domestic store base.
To put our growth in this business in perspective at the end of 2010 we reported $880 million in sales compared to $1.46 billion in 2013 up 66% in 3 years.
And lastly the capital allocation and earnings model for our company remains strong and intact.
Our ability to effectively manage this business in good sales environments and not so good has allowed us to deliver 28 consecutive quarters of double-digit EPS growth.
That consistently -- that consistency allows us to be shareholder-friendly through continual earnings growth and bondholder-friendly through a targeted investment-grade rating and financial transparency.
We are excited about our opportunities to grow our business in both this quarter and future periods.
We continue to manage this business for both short-term and long-term optimum performance.
We continue to execute on our strategy to improve the customer shopping experience.
We expanded 10 net additional hub locations during the quarter take our total remodeled hubs to 92 locations.
These remodels entail expanding the size and capacity of these locations ensuring they're in the right physical location and adding additional inventory into the market that benefits both our Retail and Commercial businesses.
We also opened 1 new hub location finishing with 155.
Lastly I'd like to address the cadence of our same-store sales performance during this past quarter.
In total performance was generally consistent throughout the quarter slightly stronger at the beginning of the quarter than the end.
August was the weakest performing period for us but we saw the results most challenged in regions that experienced cooler weather relative to last year.
This was particularly evident in those categories I mentioned earlier air conditioning and batteries.
Overall we have been encouraged by customer count trends and we believe the initiatives we have in place will allow us to gain share in both Retail and Commercial.
As our sales results weren't meeting our expectations during 2013 we performed some extensive strategic assessments.
We learned a great deal as a result of this work and we have accelerated the number of tests across the organization.
I mentioned the expanded hub assortments earlier.
These tests will take time to implement and evaluate but many of them are in market today.
We've completed one of those tests and are implementing it currently.
This test was a refinement to our individual store inventory assortment methodology.
We are leveraging more data than ever before which allows us to have better store level product assortments.
We are rolling this out by category and it will take about a year to complete.
As is customary for us we will continue to learn from our initiatives and roll out those that make sense financially.
As previously mentioned this quarter's results marked our 28th consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings per share growth.
We're very pleased with our ability to consistently deliver strong EPS growth through our financial model of steady mid-single-digit EBIT dollar growth or better along with high single-digit reductions in diluted share count through our share repurchases.
Our goal quarter-over-quarter continues to be to provide consistency to our shareholders our AutoZoners and our customers.
We feel this targeted consistency in both financial performance as well as execution of our key initiatives results in stability and confidence for all of our key constituents.
Next I'd like to discuss our sales results for this past quarter in more detail.
Our sales were up 12% for the full quarter and 5.6% on a 16-week basis.
And our sales -- our same-store sales were up 1%.
This quarter's same-store sales results compare to last year's fourth quarter comps of 2.1%.
I should point out that our total Commercial sales were up 17% over last year's fourth quarter and 11% on a 16-week basis driven by a combination of existing program growth and the addition of 368 net new programs over the trailing 12 months.
Over time we do expect to open more hub locations but we believe our strategy on inventory deployment at the store level allows us to keep the number of openings at a moderate level.
Our strategy is a steady one.
Everyone's model is a little different.
Our goal is to say "yes " more and more frequently in an economically prudent manner.
Regarding Mexico we opened 21 stores this quarter and finished with 362 stores.
Sales in our other businesses achieved very solid sales results.
Our ALLDATA and E-Commerce businesses which includes autozone.com and AutoAnything continued to perform well increasing 93.6% over last year.
The significant increase was primarily attributable to the inclusion of AutoAnything which we acquired during Q2 of this fiscal year.
There are great opportunities for E-Commerce sales growth on both a business-to-business basis and to individual customers or B2C.
While these businesses are relatively small for us at just 3.5% of our total sales mix on the quarter we are experimenting to understand where the most potential exists.
At year end because of the long-term importance of this customer base and the integrated nature of our online and offline we have decided to change the reporting on how we calculate our domestic same-store sales.
Starting this fourth quarter we have included our autozone.com business into our same-store sales calculation.
The change is not significant.
However we felt this change was warranted as autozone.com complements our store walk-in business.
Again this change only affects our autozone.com sales and excludes the sales generated from AutoAnything.
Our objective is to provide exceptional service to all of our customers regardless of how they interact with us and we believe that leveraging the Internet is a powerful tool to meet their needs whether they are researching their purchase prior to visiting a store or having their products delivered straight to their home.
With the continued aging of the car population we continue to be optimistic regarding trends for our industry in both DIY and DIFM.
While new car sales have been very strong these past 2 years we have seen those traded-in vehicles be resold to new owners who are repairing or enhancing their "new vehicle." With gas prices flat year-over-year this -- well this last fourth quarter we see miles driven flat as well.
Historically a healthier economy has led to more miles being driven.
We expect that trend to reemerge.
We remain bullish on our industry sales growth opportunities on both the retail and commercial fronts over the long term.
As the vehicle population remains at an all-time high and consumers continue to look for good values while maintaining their vehicles we see AutoZone's opportunity to sell to these customers only growing.
Now let me review our highlights regarding the execution of our operating theme for 2013 1TEAM Delivering WOW!.
The key priorities for the year were: Great People Providing Great Service! profitably growing our Commercial business leveraging the Internet hub store improvements and finally leveraging technology to improve the customer experience while optimizing efficiencies.
On the Retail front this past quarter under the Great People Providing Great Service! theme we continued with our intense focus on improving execution.
We have dedicated great resources to training our AutoZoners on customer service and we feel we continue to do a great job differentiating ourselves on this front.
The fifth key priority on leveraging technology was new this year.
As previously mentioned the enhancements to improve the information available to our AutoZoners at the point of sale while also making them more efficient are in process and we look forward to updating you on the results in upcoming conference calls.
We put a great focus on innovation and leveraging information technology to improve customer service and optimize efficiencies.
Behind the scenes we have reset our expectations on technology investment and challenged ourselves to make sure our offerings are relevant across all shopping platforms.
We realize as customers have become much more tech and mobile-savvy we have to have a sales proposition that touches all the ways they desire to interact with us.
Our current and future technology investments will lead to sales growth across all of our businesses.
In regards to Commercial we opened 173 programs during the quarter.
For the year we opened 368 versus 394 last year.
Our expectation is we will continue to open a generally consistent amount of new programs in future years.
The reacceleration of program openings during the fourth quarter was due to our increased confidence in our model due to the performance of our extensive new programs opened over the last couple of years.
As we continue to improve our product assortments and availability and as we make other refinements to our offerings we expect that the estimated sales potential from the market will only grow.
Our results continue to provide us confidence to be aggressive in adding additional resources and new programs to this important growth initiative.
We should also highlight another strong performance in return on invested capital as we were able to finish 2013 at 32.7%.
While slightly below last year's ending ROIC excluding the acquisition of AutoAnything we would have been slightly higher than last year.
We are very pleased with this metric as it is one of the best if not the best in all of hard lines retail.
However our primary focus has been and continues to be that we ensure every incremental dollar of capital that we deploy in this business provides an acceptable return well in excess of our cost of capital.
It is important to reinforce that we will always maintain our diligence regarding capital stewardship as the capital we invest is our investor's capital.
Before I pass the discussion over to Bill Giles to talk about the financial results I'd like to thank and state how proud we are of our entire organization's efforts to manage this business appropriately and prudently.
We have an amazing team and our initiatives for 2014 are really exciting.
We are ready to continue to provide WOW! Customer Service to all of our customers and we are ready to continue to prudently manage our cost structure providing our shareholders with the consistency we have exhibited in the past.
Now here's Bill.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
To start this morning let me take a few moments to talk more specifically about our Retail Commercial and international results for the quarter.
For the quarter total auto parts sales which includes our domestic Retail and Commercial businesses our Mexico stores and our 3 stores in Brazil increased 10.3% on a 17-week basis.
During the quarter nationally unleaded gas prices started out at $3.54 a gallon and ended the quarter at $3.61 a gallon a $0.07 increase.
Now last year gas prices decreased $0.01 per gallon during the fourth quarter starting at $3.79 a gallon and ending at $3.78.
We continue to believe gas prices have a real impact on our customer's ability to maintain their vehicles and we will continue to monitor prices closely in the future.
We also recognize that the impact of miles driven on cars over 10 years old the current average is much different than on newer cars in terms of wear and tear.
Miles driven were basically flat for the quarter through the last month recorded which is June.
The other statistic we highlight is the number of 7-year-old and older vehicles on the road which continues to trend in our industry's favor.
Another key macro issue facing our customers today is the reinstitution of payroll taxes back to historic norms.
This reduction in our customers' take-home pay began at the beginning of the new calendar year and at this point it has been difficult to objectively quantify the ramifications of this change.
However we believe this is and will continue throughout the year to be a headwind to our consumers' spending habits.
For the trailing 4 quarters total sales for auto parts stores was $1.7 million.
This statistic continues to set the pace for the rest of the industry.
For the quarter total Commercial sales increased 17.3%.
On a comparable basis Commercial sales increased 11%.
For the fourth quarter Commercial represented 16.4% of our total sales and grew $75 million over last year's Q4.
Last year's Commercial sales mix percent was 15.6%.
As we have said previously overall we've been pleased with the progress we are making in our Commercial business both operationally and financially and we remain on track with our plans.
We believe there are ample opportunities for us to continue to improve many facets of our operations and offerings and therefore we are optimistic about the future of this business.
We continue to believe we can grow revenues in existing stores and we will continue to open additional commercial programs.
This past quarter we opened 173 new programs versus 107 programs opened in our fourth quarter of last fiscal year.
We now have our commercial program in 3 421 stores supported by 155 hub stores.
Approximately 1 000 of our programs are 3 years old or younger.
With only 71% of our domestic stores having a commercial program and our average revenue per program materially below several of our competitors we believe there is ample opportunity for additional program growth in addition to improved productivity opportunities in current programs.
While we recognize that our Commercial sales productivity per program is well below our peers we believe the maturation of our marketing programs plus the inventory assortment additions we are making will allow us to close the gap.
As we look forward we're focused on building upon the commercial initiatives that have been in place for the last few years.
We have a very talented sales force and we are enhancing training and introducing additional technology to optimize the productivity of this sales force.
And we've increased our efforts around analyzing customer purchasing trends and in-stock trends.
We will continue to test additional enhancements to our offerings and distribution model in order to better serve customers.
In summary we remain committed to our long-term growth strategy.
We have accelerated the growth of our commercial programs having opened almost 1 000 programs over the past 36 months.
Effectively 29% of the programs are 3 years old or younger.
We believe we are well positioned to grow this business and capture market share and we believe we can scale this business in a profitable manner.
We continue to be excited about our opportunities in this business for many years to come.
Our Mexico stores continued to perform well.
We opened 21 new stores during the fourth quarter and 41 for the full year.
We currently have 362 stores in Mexico.
Our returns and profit growth continue to be in line with our expectations.
Now regarding Brazil we opened 2 stores in the quarter and have 3 stores opened at the end of the year.
Our plans remain to open 10 to 15 stores over the next couple of years and then reevaluate our development as we refine our offerings and prove that our concept works for our customers and is financially viable.
At that point we will talk more on our long-term growth plans.
Recapping this quarter's performance for the company.
In total our sales were $3 095 000 000 an increase of 12% from last year's fourth quarter.
Domestic same-store sales or sales for stores opened more than one year were up 1% for the quarter.
Gross margin for the quarter was 51.8% of sales flat compared to last year's fourth quarter.
Now while flat improvements in gross margin were attributable to lower acquisition costs offset in part by the inclusion of the recent acquisition of AutoAnything.
Gross margins are similar across both the 16-week and 17-week period.
In regards to inflation we've seen a modest decrease in cost year-over-year.
This is different than in past years.
At this point our assumption is we'll experience subdued producer pricing headwind -- producer pricing heading into the calendar year and therefore we feel costs will be predictable and manageable.
We will remain cognizant of future developments regarding inflation and we'll take the appropriate adjustments should they arise.
Looking forward we continue to believe there remains opportunity for gross margin expansion within both Retail and Commercial businesses.
However we do not manage to a targeted gross margin percentage.
As the growth of our Commercial business has been the steady headwind on our overall gross margin rate for a few years we have not bothered to call out the headwind quarterly.
It is an element of our business model and we understand we have to manage that headwind as the business grows.
Additionally AutoAnything has been a slight drag on the gross margins as this business model operates at a lower gross margin rate.
Our primary focus remains growing absolute gross profit dollars in our total auto parts segment.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 31.3% of sales lower by 29 basis points from last year's fourth quarter.
The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of sales was due in part to leverage gained on the 17th week of sales.
I do want to take a moment to thank our entire team for their diligence on cost control which has always been the key part of our corporate DNA.
We continue to believe we are well positioned to manage our cost structure in response to our sales environment.
EBIT or earnings before interest and taxes for the quarter was $636 million up 13.6% over last year's fourth quarter.
Our EBIT margin improved to 20.6% or up 29 basis points versus the previous year's fourth quarter.
Excluding the extra week our EBIT was $596 million up 6.5%.
Interest expense for the quarter was $60.9 million compared with $58.1 million in Q4 a year ago.
Debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $4 billion -- $4.1 billion or approximately $420 million more than last year's balance of $3.7 billion.
Our adjusted debt level metric finished the quarter at 2.5x EBITDAR.
While in any given quarter we may increase or decrease our leverage metric based on management's opinion regarding debt and equity market conditions we remain committed to both our investment-grade rating and our capital allocation strategy and share repurchases are an important element of that strategy.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 35.5% flat with last year's fourth quarter.
We expect our annual rate to be closer to 37% on an ongoing basis as the deviation result is primarily driven by the resolution of discrete tax items as they arise.
Net income for the quarter of $371 million was up 14.7% versus the prior year's fourth quarter.
Excluding the extra week net income was up 7.4% at $348 million.
Our diluted share count of 35.6 million was down 6.9% from last year's fourth quarter.
The combination of these factors drove earnings per share for the quarter to $10.42 up 23.2% over the prior year's fourth quarter.
And again excluding the extra week EPS was $9.76 a share up 15.4% over last year's fourth quarter.
Relating to the cash flow statement for the fourth fiscal quarter we generated $519 million of operating cash flow.
Net fixed assets were up 8% versus last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $156 million and reflected the additional expenditures required to open 97 new stores this quarter capital expenditures on existing stores hub store remodels and work on development of new stores for upcoming quarters and information technology investments.
For all of fiscal 2013 our CapEx was approximately $415 million.
With the new stores opened we finished this past quarter with 4 836 stores in 49 states the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico; 362 stores in Mexico; and 3 in Brazil for a total store count of 5 201 stores.
Depreciation totaled $71.3 million for the quarter versus last year's fourth quarter expense of $66.7 million.
With our excess cash flow we repurchased $560 million of AutoZone stock in the fourth quarter.
At year end we had $468 million remaining under our share buyback authorization.
Our leverage metric was 2.5x this past quarter.
Again I want to stress we manage through appropriate credit ratings and not any one metric.
The metric we report is meant as a guide only as each rating agency has its own criteria.
We continue to view our share repurchase program as an attractive capital deployment strategy.
Accounts payable as a percent of gross inventory finished the quarter at 116%.
Next I'd like to update you on inventory levels in total and on a per-store basis.
We reported an inventory balance of $2.9 billion up 9% versus the Q4 ending balance last year.
Increased inventory reflects new store growth along with additional investments and coverage for select categories.
Inventory per store was up 4.8% at $550 000 per store reflecting our continued investments and hard parts coverage.
This per-store amount was up only slightly from Q3's $547 000 per store.
Finally as Bill previously mentioned our continued disciplined capital management approach resulted in return on invested capital for the trailing 4 quarters of 32.7%.
We have and will continue to make investments that we believe will generate returns that significantly exceed our cost of capital.
Now I'll turn it back to Bill Rhodes.
Thank you Bill.
We're pleased to report our 28th consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth and for the year to report an EPS growth rate of 18.3% or 15.6% on a comparable 52-week basis.
Our company has continued to be successful over the long run.
That success is attributable to our approach of leveraging our unique and powerful culture and focusing on the needs of our customers.
We focus on executing at a high level consistently which we believe can be a competitive advantage.
To execute at a high level we have to consistently adhere to living the pledge.
We cannot and will not take our eye off of execution.
While we study the external environment and react where appropriate we must stay committed to executing day in and day out on our game plan.
Success will be achieved with an attention to detail and exceptional execution.
Before I conclude I want to take this opportunity to reflect on fiscal 2013.
We were able to build on past accomplishments and deliver some impressive results.
In recognition of the dedication passion and commitment of our AutoZoners we grew both our Retail and Commercial businesses this past year.
With this growth we were able to achieve and surpass the $9 billion annual sales milestone.
We opened our first stores in Brazil.
While in early stages of development we couldn't be more excited about our opportunities in this highly populated country with lots of our kind of vehicles.
Third we acquired AutoAnything in December of last year providing us access to a second arguably best-in-class dot-com brand.
Culturally the 2 companies couldn't be a better fit.
We look forward to learning from and growing our businesses together.
Both our inventory assortment testing and hub store remodels continue at an accelerated rate and their benefit to the sales continue.
We are talking more than ever about innovation.
As the industry leader it is imperative that we stay ahead making sure every aspect of our offerings is improved from inventory assortments to our Commercial offerings to leveraging the power of information technology enhancements.
We can leave no stone unturned.
At the end of the day our customers have choices and we must innovate to ensure that they turn to us for their vehicle needs.
Again we are very excited about our initiatives around inventory assortment hub stores Commercial growth Mexico ALLDATA E-Commerce and Brazil.
Our long-term model is to grow new store square footage at a low single-digit growth rate and we expect to continue growing our Commercial business at an accelerated rate.
Therefore we look to routinely grow EBIT dollars in the mid-single-digit range or better in times of strength.
And we leverage our very strong and predictable cash flow to repurchase shares enhancing our earnings per share growth in the double digits.
We feel the track we are on will allow us to continue winning for the long run.
We believe our steady consistent strategy is correct.
It is the attention to details and consistent execution that will matter.
Our belief of solid consistent strategy combined with superior execution is a formula for success.
Our charge remains to optimize our performance regardless of market conditions and continue to ensure we are investing in the key initiatives that will drive our long-term performance.
In the end delivering strong EPS growth and ROIC each and every quarter is how we measure ourselves.
We are pleased quite pleased with our EPS growth and our return on invested capital for Q4 and we remain committed to delivering on our strategic and financial objectives.
I can't wait to get back to our terrific leadership team this morning at our national sales meeting.
This team is comprised of exceptional leaders.
I can't thank them enough for all they do for our entire organization.
We are launching our Creating Customers for Life theme and I know these leaders combined with our talented team of more than 70 000-plus AutoZoners will do just that.
Now we'd like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bill looks like your Commercial sales per program adjusting for the extra week declined slightly in the year just ended.
In the past you've noted that AutoZone may be suffering from some diminishing returns in the new programs.
It sounds like now there is an epiphany that perhaps the problem was more inventory coverage.
Do you think the issue is that hubs are not as competitive as full line distribution centers operated by your competitors? Or are you indicating the problem is just the breadth of assortment in the hubs is the challenge? Let me just start by talking a little bit about -- Dan I would say that we're happy with the productivity of the commercial programs particularly the new programs.
I think -- also keep in mind that as we mentioned we've got -- probably almost 30% of our programs are 3 years old or less and we've opened close to 800 programs in just the last 2 years.
So just given an overall maturation curve you're going to see a little bit of depression on the productivity of the commercial programs taken as a whole.
So I would say that we continue to be pretty pleased with the progress of the commercial programs overall.
And I think from a hub perspective we view that more as an evolution.
When we added more inventory into those hubs we recognized that that was an opportunity and so this continues to evolve.
We think there are real opportunities for us to add more inventory into the marketplace continue to expand our coverage.
As we've talked about in the past we learned that as we added inventory for -- to help support the Commercial business by adding later model coverage we found that that actually helped the DIY business as well.
And so we think there's better and more opportunity for us to leverage the existing infrastructure that we have out there at a higher rate than we have up to this point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And you'd noted that the inventory per store is up a little more than 4% year-over-year but that's about the same rate of growth in the prior quarter.
Once you lay in these new inventory initiatives how do you see that inventory per store rate increasing? And does that come at the expense of the amount of the share buybacks as you invest that cash in inventory instead of buybacks? Yes.
And always keep in mind our first priority is to be -- to driving EBIT and to drive return on invested capital.
And so we will do what is financially viable.
But to cut to your real -- answer to your real question is yes we anticipate that inventory on a per-store basis is going to increase likely over the next year or 2 as we continue to test more opportunities for us to increase inventory coverage in the marketplace.
But again as you know our DNA is more of a test and then roll out where it's financially viable.
So our expectation is that yes inventory on a per-store basis will continue to increase slightly over the next year or so and we'll just continue to manage that.
Obviously we hope that that's going to continue to drive EBIT dollars or we wouldn't be doing it.
The next question is from Alan Rifkin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A question for Bill.
Bill with the increased emphasis on adding inventory and hard parts in particular how should we be thinking about the long-term effects on gross margin given the fact that this category is typically above the corporate average? Yes Alan.
I'm not sure which Bill.
Bill Rhodes will take this one at the start.
If you want to hear from Giles just ask for it.
I think generally the gross margin differences between hard parts and sales for our categories generally are not that significantly different.
So I think you won't see any material change in our gross margin rate as a result of being more aggressive in hard parts coverage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A question for Bill Giles.
What was the effect of deflation on comps if any? We haven't really quantified that overall so I'd be guessing a little bit.
But it was certainly probably over 1 point or so over the last couple of quarters.
We really saw a fair amount of inflation through fiscal year '12 probably '11 and '12 which kind of helps quite a bit from a comp store sales comparison if you will.
But for fiscal year '13 we've begun to anniversary some pretty good increases in inflation and we're just not seeing that right now.
And frankly we're not seeing that on the horizon either.
So we will be up against easier compares but we will not necessarily have a tailwind on that.
So I'd be guessing Alan but I'd give it probably that rough estimate.
Research Division</strong> And one more if I may.
In an effort to just try to quantify what the effect has been on your revenues of expanding the hubs really looking at the 92 expanding hubs versus the 60-some-odd that are not are the comps for the expense supported by the stores -- excuse me are the comps for the stores supported by the expanded hubs significantly greater than the comps for the stores for the hubs that you have not yet expanded? Yes.
I would say they are definitely greater.
Definition of significant I'm not sure I would go there.
But as you know we would forecast what our expectations are for each one of those both what the hub store itself is going to do plus all the satellites that are attached to that hub store.
And as we rolled all through those 92 stores it has been remarkably close to what our expectation was.
So we're quite pleased with them.
And yes they're performing better.
And as we get the rest of them up we anticipate that they'll perform better as well.
The next question is from Simeon Gutman with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can we elaborate a little bit or dig in on some of the initiatives that we talked about? I know hard parts is one of them.
Then the test that was mentioned is that separate and exclusive from the greater assortment? And is that test Commercial-focused or DIY-focused? I think you also mentioned Z-net enhancements.
And any other current initiatives that are on plan for next year? Yes Simeon.
We went into some discussions about what we're doing on the inventory assortment front.
We did some pretty significant strategic assessments back last winter and end of this spring.
And as a result of that we found some opportunities where we could -- where we believe we could significantly enhance our productivity.
So starting in about May we launched a variety of tests.
Some of them are competing tests but one of them is the mega hub or expanding our hubs even greater than we are today.
One of them is what I talked about a test where we took a large group of stores and used our latest and greatest thinking on the data and leveraging the data for inventory store-level assortments at every individual store.
That test proved to work very well and so we are beginning to roll that one even as we speak.
It will take about a year for -- because we're going to roll it off with category reviews.
It will take about a year for it to get out there.
But the vast majority of it should happen between now and February.
So we're just trying a lot of different things.
We're very excited.
Some of them are going to work; some of them aren't going to work.
As I mentioned some of them are competing against each other.
So we'll see what happens.
It's a little too early to tell yet but we're confident we found some opportunities to further enhance.
The other part that you asked about was Z-net.
As we mentioned about a year ago we added leveraging information technology as one of our key priorities.
And our information technology team has gone to work really collaboratively particularly with our store operations team and we're very excited about what we're doing.
We're just now this week introducing this new version of Z-net to our leaders at the national sales meeting and they are very excited about what they see.
So we're excited about what we have in front of us.
Research Division</strong> And just to follow up to something that Alan asked a second ago and I think this is implied in your comments but just wanted to make sure.
The inventory that's been added to some of the hubs or the expand that's been happening over the last year that's what's increasing the productivity meaning those SKUs are the ones that are increasing the productivity of those stores where you've added it? I would say the vast majority -- well I would say the majority of the benefit is coming from those SKUs but there's also a market basket effect.
So if we have the radiator we also get some of the ancillary parts that were already there that go with that radiator if that makes sense.
Research Division</strong> Yes it does.
And then one more bigger picture.
If you look at the Commercial opportunity we see and we hear the trade data of how fragmented the industry looks.
But looking closer to your markets and I guess AutoZone is in almost every market but looking at it on a more detailed level can you give us a sense of the competition there? Are there these wholesale distributors that are still part of that fragmentation? Or are you budding up against the bigger the larger players the publics as well as the NAPAs and the CARQUEST? Now we are absolutely competing against a wide variety of competitors from WDs to local jobbers to individual-owned stores to the people that are public that we always talk about.
Yes.
Keep in mind also Simeon we've got about a 3% market share.
So we're in control of our own destiny.
The next question is from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Three quick ones I think.
First of all if you could go into a little more detail as to the enhancements to Z-net are they graphics? Is it reference information? Is it sort of next steps for associates to take with consumers? Because Z-net obviously when hit will certainly -- gave you guys a different form factor and such.
And I know some of your competitors have also enhanced their POS and their direct assistance.
So can you tell us what you're doing here that you think will move the needle? I would say that on that it's probably more reference just to use your own terminology.
I think that we're providing better information for the AutoZoners to provide better service on completing a job maybe to your point on what the next steps are et cetera.
But for us it's all about making sure that the customer gets exactly what they need to do the job right.
And we believe that we're adding some enhancements particularly for individual jobs that will allow the AutoZoners to make sure that happens.
Research Division</strong> Any sense from your early tests of the kind of impact that that can have where you introduced it? I would say it's really early.
We tested it very lightly because it's more of a technology.
It wasn't a significant investment.
And then we're going to roll it out relatively quickly.
So we'll see.
It can only be a plus.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Second quick question.
You talked about in addition to inventory talked about a couple of operating initiatives.
How should we think about the costs of those initiatives? Are they incremental? Will they show up in any way? Or have they basically been absorbed already? I wouldn't say they've been absorbed because we haven't rolled out everything overall.
So there's going to be some elements of it that are going to be relatively low cost where we're going to be able to leverage our existing infrastructure at a pretty high level.
There may be some increased operational costs as we move some inventory.
That would probably show up maybe in SG&amp;A.
But I don't think that right now today we're indicating that we're going to see material cost increases.
And we know we certainly would be well out in front of that with you guys if we saw that.
But today we don't see that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then finally I know you said that the addition of dot-com to your same-store sales calculation was not a big deal.
Any sense as to the rough order of magnitude of the contribution? I'd say it's like around 10 basis points maybe? So it's not...
Research Division</strong> So truly material? Yes.
The next question is from Bret Jordan with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on some of the inventory questions and talk about expanding the coverage.
Are you looking at branded coverage to meet the Commercial hard parts demand as well or are we looking at keeping the percentage weighting in Duralast fairly constant? Yes.
I would say we're planning to keep the percentage weighting in Duralast very constant.
This is about expanding our ability to say yes not adding choice.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess as 71% of the stores now have commercial and you look at the store base maybe some of them don't really apply to commercial.
What do you think the potential maximum percentage is if the footprint were to stay the way it is today? I think if you had 5 of us in a room we'd all have 5 different points of view.
We don't know the answer to that yet.
We believe it's not 100%.
We believe it's significantly above where it is today.
Whether that's 80% 85% or 90% I don't think we know the answer.
And frankly as we continue to improve our offering we think it will be higher and higher.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess one last question.
I mean just from a housekeeping standpoint what percentage of the mix would be done in the Duralast brand basket now? That's probably around 50%.
The next question is from Michael Lasser with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I believe Bill Rhodes made a comment that you want to say "yes " more frequently in an economically prudent manner.
It seemed like that's going to be more relevant on -- or a little more relevant on the Commercial side.
And perhaps to be very relevant in that market you would have to accept lower turns may require a greater distribution capacity a deeper inventory investment.
So how do you balance the desire to want to be more relevant in that market with your current return profile that's obviously very nice? Yes I think it's a great question Michael.
And I would start with yes we have 32.7% return on invested capital.
We do not hold incremental investments to that 32.7%.
If we have something that will exceed our 15% internal rate of return we're going to go for it.
So that's why we're going with all these tests.
We also don't want to go out there and launch something big until we understand the ramifications of it.
So that's why we've put these myriad of tests out there and we have great testing methodologies where we can look at tests versus control; look at the cost; look at any capital if there is any; and then determine: is this the right investment for us over the long term or is it not? So I think our approach works really well.
And it's the same approach we use to develop the current Commercial model and the same approach we use to develop the hub store model.
Research Division</strong> So if you are seeing evidence from your tests that you may need to push further on your distribution capacity that's something that you would not rule out? I wouldn't rule out anything.
If we can find something that's economically viable and have a high degree of confidence that it's going to work over the long term we would look at this -- all kinds of different strategies.
I want to be very careful that does not mean that's what we're going to go do.
We have a myriad of tests that are out there where we're looking at how do we improve but also make sure that it's prudent from a financial point of view.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
My last question is on the DIY side.
Can you talk about how you thought your share your market share trended during the most recent quarter? And what were some of the puts and takes on your ability to either gain or perhaps the circumstances which you lost a little share? Yes.
I would say we probably had a minimal loss on market share overall probably over the past year or so.
And I think that that's regained a fair amount of energy and focus in the organization.
We're really excited about the things that we've put together as we kind of head forward into next year.
So I don't know what the puts and calls are necessarily.
There's a lot of things that we know that we can do better on internally and we think the things we articulated today are what we're going to focus on to regain market share.
The next question is from Greg Melich with ISI.
Research Division</strong> I only have 2 questions.
One is so I think you mentioned a strong traffic trend or an improving traffic trend while still negative.
Could you give us a little more on that? Was that talking through the quarter or sequentially versus last quarter? I would say through the quarter versus last year overall.
And I would say that what we saw was that traffic had a little bit of an improvement from a trends perspective.
And so actually tickets been a little bit more of a challenge and we talked about that a little bit earlier relative to the inflation factor.
Research Division</strong> So it'd be fair to say if your costs improved 110 basis points sequentially the traffic improved more than that? Yes.
That's a good way to look at it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second is the AP inventory getting all the way to 116%.
Is that a function of the new SKUs you're adding and how they turn in their terms? Or is that just sort of a timing of when the year ended? Or can we actually use that kind of rate going forward? I would look at it from the standpoint I think it's a lot of great work from the merchandising organization in order to balance out terms in some of the inventory that they're adding.
Relative to going forward I think we'll continue to see a little bit of pressure on that number as we add inventory over time.
So we're thrilled we're at 116%.
We think that's a real -- certainly an industry-leading number for us.
We're proud of that number.
But we're not trying to chase that number at the risk of not having the appropriate inventory coverage.
Research Division</strong> So put another way as we add the inventory for the hubs we shouldn't assume that the payable terms is going to cover all that investment? I would say that's probably right over time.
But in the short term it definitely will.
The next question is from Brian Nagel with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just one question I guess really for Bill Giles.
Looking at the gross margins and you made some -- made comments about -- in your prepared comments about the gross margin but just maybe so I can understand better.
If you look at the trajectory through the course of the year and it seemed like your gross margin gains moderated pretty meaningfully towards the end of the year recognizing you don't manage towards the rate just help me understand the kind of puts and takes with that what basically caused that moderation? I think that the moderation I would attribute it more to the prior year activity than the current year activity.
I think we've had pretty good improvement on lower acquisition costs et cetera.
I suspect that we had a slightly higher rate of lower acquisition costs coupled with probably some increase in inflation and ultimately will always help margin a little bit.
And those things didn't anniversary themselves this year.
So I think overall when I looked at it we're flat for last year.
x AutoAnything we're probably up maybe 40 basis points or so.
So we still have a very strong margin and a growing margin.
The other element of that we mentioned many times is as we continue to grow the Commercial business it is a natural headwind for us.
And we're growing at an accelerated rate versus our DIY business.
That is a pretty significant headwind in gross margin.
The next question is from Christopher Horvers with JPMC.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to follow up on the gross margin question.
So as you think about inflation going forward with a lack of inflation going forward and presumably some deflation is it in categories where the pricing is sticky where perhaps you could see some tailwind related to that particularly as it interacts with the LIFO calculation? Or does the I guess modest deflation put pressure going forward on the gross margin? I would say that at the moment we're not believing that we'll have significant inflation or deflation per se.
I don't think that we're going to necessarily have significant deflation.
So and when you think about it a lot of this inflation occurred in fiscal year '11 and '12.
'13 didn't really have a lot.
If there really isn't a lot of inflation or deflation in fiscal year '14 then it should be -- not have a significant comparable impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then I guess once you get past the anniversary AutoAnything December 19 or so so really some of the pressure on gross margin goes away.
So we could see some modest gross margin expansion once you fully lap AutoAnything? I think that's a fair way to look at it.
That's exactly right.
That would be one aspect a pressure point that would become anniversary-ed when we lap it.
And like Bill said as we continue to grow Commercial that creates a little bit of headwind.
And then we always have opportunities to improve sourcing so that can be a tailwind.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then the last question on sales.
You mentioned the Northeast was a stronger performer relative to other regions.
Was that region hit particularly around the cooling weather to suggest that that region also decelerated into August? And then is there a lingering impact overall in the business as you get past the AC season? Doesn't the mix suggest that maybe things got a little bit better here in September? Or is there a lingering impact on batteries? How do you think about that overall? Yes.
I think the reason we wanted to call out the Northeast and the Midwest in particular was that they had been performing so significantly different than the rest of the country for the last 15 months or so.
Basically what we're saying is we said all along that we thought that was related to the winter of 2011 2012.
That seems to have been right.
Now the Northeast performed pretty well this quarter.
The Midwest continued to be challenged but not nearly at the rate that it was before.
So I wouldn't read too much into that.
As far as the batteries and air-conditioning sales yes those were a little bit more challenged particularly in the Eastern United States during the summer months.
They'll become less and less important as we move into October.
But then we'll get into December where batteries and other failure-related categories will be very important.
Research Division</strong> So would you assess the August being a little slower than the start of the quarter mainly around the weather in those categories? It was modestly slower and it was certainly mild.
So I think that's a good conclusion.
Okay.
Before we conclude the call I'd like to take a moment to reiterate that our business model continues to be solid.
We are excited about our growth prospects for the year.
We will not take anything for granted as we understand our customers have alternatives.
Our culture remains our key point of differentiation from our competition and we must not lose sight of the importance of basic store execution in order to remain very successful.
We have a solid plan to succeed this fiscal year but I want to stress that this is a marathon and not a sprint.
As we continue to focus on the basics and focus on optimizing long-term shareholder value we are confident AutoZone will continue to be incredibly successful.
We thank you for participating in today's call.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you very much for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the AutoZone Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
This conference call will discuss AutoZone's first quarter financial results.
Bill Rhodes the company's Chairman President and CEO will be making a short presentation on the highlights of the quarter.
The conference call will end promptly at 10 a.m.
Central Time 11 a.m.
Eastern Time.
Before Mr.
Rhodes begins the company has requested that you listen to the following statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Certain statements contained in this presentation are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use words such as believe anticipate should intend plan will expect estimate project position strategy and similar expressions.
These are based on assumption and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends current conditions expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including without limitation: credit market conditions; the impact of recessionary conditions; competition; product demand; the ability to hire and retain qualified employees; consumer debt level; inflation; weather; raw material costs of our suppliers; energy prices; war and the prospect of war including terrorist activity; availability of consumer transportation; construction delays; access to available and feasible financing; and changes in laws or regulations.
Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31 2013 and these risk factors should be read carefully.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone's 2014 First Quarter Conference Call.
With me today are Bill Giles Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer IT and ALLDATA; and Brian Campbell Vice President Treasurer Investor Relations and Tax.
Regarding the first quarter I hope you've had an opportunity to read our press release and learn about the quarter's results.
If not the press release along with slides complementing our comments today are available on our website www.autozoneinc.com.
Please click on Quarterly Earnings Conference Calls to see them.
To begin this morning I want to thank all AutoZoners across the globe for another very solid quarter.
This morning we reported our 29th consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings per share growth.
That's an amazing accomplishment and it highlights the consistency in our industry our impressive business model and most importantly the dedication and superior execution of our team of more than 70 000 passionate AutoZoners.
Regarding the quarter we've embarked on several key initiatives and tests and we are proceeding aggressively.
As we discussed in our last quarterly call we are testing several new inventory initiatives.
I also mentioned we would be introducing a new version of Z-net that has now been deployed.
Over the last couple of years we've reset our expectations in regard to technology investments in an effort to leverage technology to enhance the customer experience and leverage operating efficiencies.
The enhanced Z-net is the first of those efforts to be implemented.
Finally I mentioned our goal is and remains to be growing market share in 2014 while continuing to deliver solid earnings.
Our organization understands the importance of balancing investments and returns and we have to invest our time and capital accordingly.
Over the last several months we have significantly increased the pace of strategic assessments design of potential enhancements deployment of tests and implementation of new concepts or initiatives.
This is vitally important work.
It is intellectually stimulating but it's also very hard work.
I want to say a special thank you to the many AutoZoners across the organization who have redoubled their efforts to complete these very important efforts.
Each of these AutoZoners has a full-time job in addition to this work.
They have worked very hard are doing a great job and are leaving no stone unturned.
Their pace of progress has been amazing to me.
For the quarter we reported a total sales increase of 5.1% while same-store sales were up 0.9%.
This overall sales performance was generally consistent with our Q4 results but our DIY performance was a bit worse than Q4.
Part of the deterioration in DIY was due to a calendar shift resulting from our 53rd week.
Our DIY same-store sales would have been 87 basis points higher if we were comparing to the same weeks last year.
In Retail we experienced stronger trends in our failure-related categories while we saw weaker trends in the sales floor and more discretionary categories.
These trends were pretty consistent nationally.
In Commercial our business accelerated nicely and the trends were generally consistent throughout the quarter and regionally.
Our Commercial business is predominantly a hard parts business and consistent with our DIY results these categories also performed well in Commercial during the quarter.
Our consumer remains under pressure.
We have yet to anniversary the reinstatement of payroll taxes which occurred at the beginning of the calendar year and the government shutdown during the quarter was not helpful.
However there are some macro factors that have been helpful.
Gas prices have begun to abate and we believe this can have a positive effect on our customer's ability to spend on routine maintenance.
With approximately 10 billion gallons of gasoline consumed monthly in the U.S.
any sizable move in price can have a material stimulus on the economy.
Currently gas prices are approximately $3.30 a gallon or about $0.15 a gallon below last year at this time.
As we are heading into what is forecast to be a more normal winter weather pattern we are optimistic.
We would assume the most pronounced effects would be felt in the Midwest and Northeast markets.
We mentioned during our last quarterly conference call that we lost some share in retail.
I'm pleased to report today our data is telling us we're slightly gaining share in retail.
While the data reflects only the last couple of months we feel the initiatives we're working on are making a difference.
We've enhanced our electronic catalog to better serve our customers by further highlighting related items necessary to do the complete job.
We believe these enhancements will improve the customer experience and will complement the knowledge of our AutoZoners.
This new system was implemented throughout our domestic store base in Q1.
While training on the new system is ongoing the feedback we are receiving from AutoZoners is very encouraging.
Regarding DIY ticket and traffic trends.
Our trend didn't change materially from last quarter.
Our traffic counts continued to be challenging but improved from the trends we experienced from April 2012 to April 2013.
The more significant change from historical trends has been a much slower growth rate in average ticket than we have experienced over the last several years.
We haven't experienced the same rate of growth in commodity-based inflation that we have seen in recent years.
Currently we don't see any indications of that trend changing materially in the short term.
While that is very good news for our customers it has certainly challenged our results.
If the winter weather projections come to fruition that could certainly benefit our traffic trends.
Overall we can't control the macro factors that impact our business and that is why we have intensified our efforts on enhancing our offerings.
Ultimately we control our destiny and we are excited about the many initiatives we have underway or intent.
We're pleased with the progress we are making in our Commercial business which showed an acceleration in growth versus last quarter.
Our sales increased 13.9% from last year's first quarter.
And as you can see we opened more programs this quarter.
The 125 programs we opened this quarter marks the largest number of openings we've had in a first quarter in the last decade.
While some of these openings simply reflect a pulling forward of program openings from Q2 we expect to open a similar number of programs throughout the year as we did last year.
Our all other businesses increased approximately 75% over last year as a bulk of this increase was driven by the yet-to-anniversary acquisition of AutoAnything we completed at the end of the calendar year 2012.
To remind our listeners this segment of business includes AutoAnything autozone.com and ALLDATA.
Regarding all these businesses we've introduced the idea of being more digitally integrated.
As the auto parts landscape continues to evolve it's important we think more broadly.
Therefore we've made this one of our 4 strategic growth priorities along with Retail Commercial and International.
We have a tremendous amount of data and content available to us across all of our segments.
We are making a priority to combine forces across the board and look at our customers their opportunities and challenges on a more holistic basis.
This remains an early-stage effort but we believe this can be an important and significant opportunity for us to deepen customer relationships and grow sales.
I'd like to spend a few minutes updating you on some of our newest initiatives and test their focus on improving inventory availability.
We have several tests underway at various stages.
It is important to note that some of these tests compete against each other as we are working to identify the most economical means of increasing our ability to fulfill our customers' needs.
Our first initiative was tested last spring in summer and it is in the process of being implemented.
We have improved our algorithms that determine store SKU placement.
This includes adding additional inventory while simultaneously removing unproductive inventory.
Net-net it will increase our store level inventory.
In the first quarter about 40% of our per store inventory growth is attributable to this initiative.
We are deploying these new assortments by category and it will take about a year to complete but the majority will be in our stores by the spring-selling season.
We've also been testing additional inventory in our hub stores.
We continue to find the opportunities to add productive inventory to all of our hub stores and we expect this to continue especially as we further penetrate the highly fragmented and hard parts-focused commercial market.
Additionally we are testing a much deeper product offering in a select few hub stores and these locations are leveraging that inventory across a wide network of additional hubs and satellites.
This allows us to significantly broaden the depth of the product offering closer to the customer.
We are also testing both broader SKU assortment in our distribution centers as well as more frequent deliveries to both select hub and satellite stores.
All of these efforts are designed to assess the most effective way to service our customers' needs and to reduce the amount of unproductive activity we have transferring products from store to store.
It is still very early but we have learned as expected that more inventory closer to the customer increases sales.
We don't yet know if it is a wise financial decision or the most economical way to accomplish this objective.
That's why we're running these tests.
We expect to continue these tests for the majority of this fiscal year.
We will modify some expand some and likely implement others.
Ultimately we believe we have opportunities to improve but it is important that we find the optimal solution.
We will keep you abreast of developments in this area as we progress.
We continue to execute on our strategies to improve the customer shopping experience.
We expanded 8 additional hub locations during the quarter to take our total remodeled hub locations to 100 locations.
These remodels entail expanding the size and capacity of these locations ensuring they're in the right physical location and adding additional inventory into the market that benefits both Retail and Commercial.
We also opened 2 new hubs locations finishing with 157.
Over time we do expect to open more hub locations but we believe our strategy on inventory deployment at the store level allows us to keep the number of openings at a moderate level.
With the continued aging of the car population we continue to be optimistic regarding trends for our industry in both DIY and DIFM.
While new car sales have been very strong these past few quarters we have seen those traded-in vehicles be resold to new owners who are repairing or enhancing their "new vehicle." With gas prices declining a bit recently on a year-over-year basis we believe miles driven can increase heading into 2014.
Historically lower gas prices and an improving economic outlook have led to more miles being driven.
We expect that trend to reemerge.
We remain bullish on our industry sales growth opportunities on both the Retail and Commercial fronts over the long term.
As the vehicle population remains at an all-time high and consumers continue to look for good values while maintaining their vehicles we see AutoZone's opportunity to sell to those customers only growing.
Now let me review our operating theme priorities for 2014.
Our overarching theme this year is Creating Customers for Life and the key priorities for the year are: one Great People Providing Great Service!; two profitably growing our Commercial business; three leveraging the Internet; four leveraging technology to improve the customer experience while optimizing efficiencies; and five improving inventory availability.
On the retail front this past quarter under the Great People Providing Great Service! theme we continue with our intense focus on improving execution.
With the rollout of our new Z-net software we spent a great deal of time training AutoZoners on the system enhancements.
We've tried to make the system as intuitive as possible but along with change we have to spend time teaching and discussing those changes.
We also learned from our store AutoZoners how to improve the way the information is presented on the screen.
This mutual respect for operations and technology will lead in our belief to a superior selling tool in our stores.
We should also highlight another strong performance in return on invested capital as we finished Q1 at 32.7%.
While slightly below last year's Q1 ROIC excluding the acquisition of AutoAnything we would have been slightly higher than last year.
We are very pleased with this metric as it is one of the best if not the best in all of hard lines retail.
However our primary focus has been and continues to be that we ensure every incremental dollar of capital that we deploy in this business provides an acceptable return well in excess of our cost of capital.
It is important to reinforce we will always maintain our diligence regarding capital stewardship as the capital we invest is our investor's capital.
Now let me turn the call over to Bill Giles.
Bill? Thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone.
To start this morning let me take a few moments to talk more specifically about our Retail Commercial and international results.
For the quarter total auto parts sales which includes our domestic Retail and Commercial businesses our Mexico stores and our 4 stores in Brazil increased 3.6% over the 12 weeks.
Regarding macro trends during the quarter nationally unleaded gas prices started out at $3.61 a gallon and ended the quarter at $3.29 a gallon a $0.32 decrease.
Last year gas prices decreased similarly at $0.35 per gallon during the first quarter starting at $3.78 and ending at $3.43 a gallon.
We continue to believe gas prices have a real impact on our customers' abilities to maintain their vehicles and we will continue to monitor prices closely in the future.
We also recognize that the impact of miles driven on cars over 10 years old the current average is much different than on newer cars in terms of wear and tear.
Miles driven data reported by the Department of Transportation are available only through September.
However for July through September the data shows positive trends up between 1.3% and 1.6% each of the 3 months.
The other statistic we highlight is the number of 7-year-old and older vehicles on the road which continues to trend in our industry's favor.
Another key macro issue facing our customers today is the reinstitution of payroll taxes back to historic norms.
This reduction in our customers' take-home pay began at the beginning of the new calendar year and it has been difficult to objectively quantify the ramifications of this change.
However we believe this is -- and will continue through December to be a headwind to our consumers' spending habits.
For the trailing 4 quarters total sales for auto parts stores was $1 744 000.
This statistic continues to set the pace for the rest of the industry.
For the quarter total Commercial sales increased 13.9%.
And for the first quarter Commercial represented 16.7% of our total company sales and grew $43 million over last year's Q1.
Last year's Commercial sales mix percent was 15.4%.
As we have said previously overall we have been pleased with the progress we are making in our Commercial business both operationally and financially and we remain on track with our plans.
We believe there are ample opportunities for us to continue to improve many facets of our operations and offerings and therefore we are optimistic about the future of this business.
We believe we can grow revenues in existing stores while opening additional commercial programs.
This past quarter we opened 125 new programs versus 37 programs opened in our first quarter of last fiscal year.
We now have our commercial program in 3 546 stores supported by 157 hub stores.
Approximately 1 070 of our programs are 3 years old or younger.
With only 73% of our domestic stores having the commercial program we believe there is further opportunity for additional program growth in addition to improved productivity opportunities in current programs.
Further we recognize that our Commercial sales productivity per program is well below our peers.
However we believe the maturation of our marketing programs plus the inventory assortment additions we are making will allow us to close the gap.
As we look forward we're focused on building upon the commercial initiatives that have been in place for the last few years.
We have a very talented sales force and we are enhancing training and introducing additional technology to optimize the productivity of the sales force.
We have increased our efforts around analyzing customer purchasing trends and in-stock trends.
We've also seen with our inventory assortment tests ongoing an improvement in hard parts sales to commercial customers.
Historically we've seen retail sales impacted as much or more by inventory additions to stores.
The more recent tests are showing commercial customers are disproportionately taking advantage of these inventory additions.
This is exciting to us as we believe we're on the right track when it comes to our ability to climb the call list to become the customers' first call.
In summary we remain committed to our long-term growth strategy.
We have accelerated the growth of our commercial programs having opened over 1 000 programs over the past 36 months.
Effectively 30% of the programs are 3 years old or younger.
We believe we are well positioned to grow this business and capture market share.
Our Mexico stores continued to perform well.
We opened 1 new store during the first quarter.
We currently have 363 stores in Mexico and our returns and profit growth continue to be in line with our expectations.
Regarding Brazil we opened 1 new store in the quarter and have 4 stores opened at the end of the quarter.
Our plans remain to open approximately 10 stores over the next couple of years and then reevaluate our development as we refine our offerings and prove that our concept works for our customers and is financially viable.
At that point we will talk more on our long-term growth plans.
Recapping this past quarter's performance for the company.
In total our sales were $2 094 000 000 an increase of 5.1% from last year's first quarter.
Domestic same-store sales or sales for stores opened more than one year were up 0.9% for the quarter.
I will point out here on a shifted basis our same-store sales were slightly higher at 1.5%.
While this is a larger percentage than the unshifted comp number we feel over the year things even out and probably not worth making a large point of.
The difference of approximately 0.5 point of comp came from the retail portion of the business due mainly to losing a summer week comparison this year and picking up a late fall week in November.
Gross margin for the quarter was 51.9% of sales up 3 basis points versus last year's first quarter.
The improvement in gross margin was attributable to lower acquisition costs that were offset primarily by the inclusion of the recent acquisition of AutoAnything.
In regards to inflation we have seen modest decreases in costs year-over-year.
This is different than in past years.
At this point our assumption is we'll experience subdued producer pricing heading into the calendar year and therefore we feel costs will be predictable and manageable.
We will remain cognizant of future developments regarding inflation and we'll make the appropriate adjustments should they arise.
Looking forward we continue to believe there remains opportunity for gross margin expansion within both the Retail and Commercial business.
However we do not manage to a targeted gross margin percentage.
As the growth of our Commercial business has been the steady headwind on our overall gross margin rate for a few years we have not specifically called out the headwind quarterly.
But rather we recognize that it is an integrated part of our business model.
Additionally AutoAnything has been a drag on our gross margin as this business model operates at a lower gross margin rate.
As we anniversary our acquisition of AutoAnything during Q2 our margin comparisons will become more consistent.
Our primary focus remains growing absolute gross profit dollars in our total auto parts segment.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 33.5% of sales lower by 5 basis points from last year's first quarter.
The slight improvement in operating expenses as a percentage of sales was primarily due to a shift in the timing of advertising expenditures.
I just want to take a moment to thank our entire team for their diligence on cost control which has always been a key part of our corporate DNA.
We continue to believe we are well positioned to manage our cost structure in response to our sales environment.
EBIT for the quarter was $384 million up 5.6% over last year's first quarter.
Our EBIT margin improved to 18.3% or up 8 basis points versus the previous year's first quarter.
Interest expense for the quarter was $42.4 million compared with $41.1 million in Q1 a year ago.
Debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $4 174 000 000 or approximately $370 million more than last year's Q1 balance of $3 802 000 000.
Our adjusted debt level metric finished the quarter at 2.5x EBITDAR.
While on any given quarter we may increase or decrease our leverage metric based on management's opinion regarding debt and equity market conditions we remain committed to both our investment-grade rating and our capital allocation strategy and share repurchases are an important element of that strategy.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 36.1% lower than last year's first quarter of 36.8%.
This quarter benefited from the settlement of certain discrete tax items.
Net income for the quarter of $218 million was up 7.2% versus the prior year's first quarter.
Our diluted share count of 34.7 million was down 7.7% from last year's first quarter.
The combination of these factors drove earnings per share for the quarter to $6.29 up 16.2% over the prior year's first quarter.
Relating to the cash flow statement for the first fiscal quarter we generated $357 million of operating cash flow.
Net fixed assets were up 8% versus last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $83 million and reflected the additional expenditures required to open 9 new stores this quarter.
Capital expenditures on existing stores hub store remodels work on development of new stores for upcoming quarters and information technology investments.
For all of fiscal 2013 our CapEx was approximately $415 million and we'd expect our CapEx to be in line with that for fiscal year 2014.
With the new stores opened we finished this past quarter with 4 843 stores in 49 states the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico; 363 stores in Mexico; and 4 in Brazil for a total store count of 5 210.
Depreciation totaled $55.8 million for the quarter versus last year's first quarter expense of $50.7 million.
With our excess cash flow we repurchased $292 million of AutoZone stock in the first quarter.
At quarter end we had $177 million remaining under our share buyback authorization.
Our leverage metric was 2.5x this past quarter.
Again I want to stress we manage through appropriate credit ratings and not any one metric.
The metric we report is meant as a guide only as each rating firm has its own criteria.
We continue to view our share repurchase program as an attractive capital deployment strategy.
Accounts payable as a percent of gross inventory finished the quarter at 116%.
Next I'd like to update you on our inventory levels in total and on a per-store basis.
We reported an inventory balance of $2.9 billion up 9% versus the Q1 ending balance last year.
Increased inventory reflects new store growth along with additional investments and coverage for select categories.
Inventory per store was up 5.4% at $566 000 per store reflecting our continued investments in the hard parts coverage.
Finally as Bill previously mentioned our continued disciplined capital management approach resulted in return on invested capital for the trailing 4 quarters of 32.7%.
We have and will continue to make investments that we believe will generate returns that significantly exceed our cost of capital.
Now I'll turn it back to Bill Rhodes.
Thank you Bill.
We are pleased to report our 29th consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings per share growth.
Our company has continued to be successful over the long run.
That success is attributable to our approach to leveraging our unique and powerful culture and focusing on the needs of our customers.
We focus on executing at a high level consistently which we believe can be a competitive advantage.
To execute at a high level we have to consistently adhere to living the pledge.
We cannot and will not take our eye off of execution.
Success will be achieved with an attention to detail and exceptional execution.
Before I conclude I want to reiterate that our initiatives around inventory assortment hub stores commercial growth Mexico ALLDATA E-Commerce and Brazil are all very exciting to us.
We feel these initiatives will lead to increasing sales for 2014.
While our industry sales according to NPD data made available to us have been slower we expect the less robust growth is more from the near-term macro pressures than long-term structural change.
It didn't surprise us that our retail sales results remained sluggish this past quarter as several macro headwinds had yet to lap themselves.
Based on our read of the trajectory of the macro influences combined with our existing and exciting new initiatives we are optimistic about our sales for the balance of the year.
Our long-term model is to grow new store square footage at a low single-digit growth rate and we expect to continue growing our Commercial business at an accelerated rate.
As we continue to execute on our financial model we look to routinely grow EBIT dollars in the mid-single-digit range or better in times of strength.
And we leverage our very strong and predictable cash flow to repurchase shares enhancing our earnings per share growth into double digits.
We feel the track we are on will allow us to continue winning for the long run.
We believe our steady consistent strategy is correct.
It is the attention to details and consistent execution that will matter.
Our belief of solid consistent strategy combined with superior execution is a formula for success.
We are investing in the key initiatives that will drive our long-term performance.
In the end delivering strong EPS growth and ROIC each and every quarter is how we measure ourselves.
We remain committed to delivering on our strategic and financial objectives.
Before we move to the question-and-answer period I'd like to take this opportunity to recognize and say goodbye to one of our great leaders.
In early January Harry Goldsmith Executive Vice President General Counsel and Secretary will be retiring.
Harry has provided sage advice to our company and its leaders for the past 20 years and his contributions have been invaluable.
He will certainly be missed.
But he has built a strong team that will continue to prosper after his retirement.
As we thank him for his service we want to wish Harry and his family all the best in their future endeavors.
Now we'd like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today is from Simeon Gutman with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Bill just curious what you're thinking in terms of competitive response to some of the changes that are happening around you.
Does AutoZone need to accelerate its position in the Commercial arena? Or is it sort of pay-as-you-go and slow and steady as far as just trying to build the business and then benefit from potential disruption? Yes.
All right.
I don't know what's going on with that phone.
Great question.
Simeon would you mind going on hold if this is on your line? [Technical Difficulty] Terrific question.
And Simeon I'll come back to you once I answered to see if you have any follow-ups.
There are some pretty significant changes that are going on in our industry.
Frankly when we look at those number one we have terrific competitors both on the retail side and the commercial side across-the-board.
And our retail and commercial competitors are going to get better over time.
It doesn't matter whether there's a major transition -- transformational acquisition or if they're just out there doing what they do everyday.
We will certainly monitor what happens on the landscape.
There's a lot yet that we don't know how that acquisition is going to be implemented.
We'll certainly monitor and stay close to it.
But the bottom line is we have what we believe is a very robust strategy.
And regardless of what others are going to do it's more important that we focus on what we're going to do and how we get better.
As I mentioned in the prepared comments we really have taken on kind of a step-change in looking at new initiatives and tests and we're very excited about those.
I think we need to focus on what we're doing and let everybody else do whatever they're going to do.
Simeon do you have a follow-up? Research Division</strong> Yes.
One follow-up but it's not to that it's a different question.
I'm sorry if the phone is coming in choppy.
So 2013 turned out pretty solid despite some choppiness on the DIY side.
Everything is pointing to that maybe we'll see a little bit of a pickup here in the near term.
But if we don't playing the other side of that if things stay choppy could the business still see a mid-teens type of earnings growth or high single-digit EBIT growth if the DIY business stays under pressure next year? Well I think I'd go back to one of the things that I said towards the end of our comments is that our approach going in is we're going to grow square footage in the low single-digit range and then grow Commercial on accelerated rate which we believe is a formula to drive mid-single-digit growth rate in EBIT.
And then we're going to add our share repurchase on top of that which will comfortably get us in the double digits.
Whether or not we can grow in the teens or the mid-teens that's always an uphill battle for us.
But I'd say when you step back and look at what we've done over the last several years we've been able to accomplish that.
Following up on that though one challenge that we do have this year is the second quarter last year was particularly challenging for us and we very aggressively managed our expenses.
As the sales environment has improved a bit we think it's important that we get up -- get caught up on a little bit of the things that we're behind on as we make sure that we don't slow down the momentum that's building in this.
So I think you can look for us to be a little bit less aggressive than we were last year this time on the operating expenses.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] I guess at the expense of reining in some of the costs that will stay on plan? I'm sorry I didn't hear the first part of that.
Research Division</strong> New store growth new store openings.
New store growth we're a little bit behind as we enter the year.
That's not atypical for us.
We'll be on the 150 stores range in the United States and roughly 40 in Mexico and still progressing in Brazil although that's a little harder to forecast.
The next question is from Chris Bottiglieri with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> It's Aram.
Chris maybe I should have you ask the question because I've obviously got some problems.
Can you do me a favor and just talk about the gross margin a little bit? Your competitors have made huge amounts of inroads getting gross margin rate closer to yours.
And I know you said earlier you don't manage the business to a gross margin rate but if we were to adjust the income statements for the warehouse and distribution costs that you both include I would say the O'Reilly's gross margin is probably higher than yours even though they've got a lot more commercial and a lot less private label.
Wondering if you can talk about whether you've got an opportunity to improve that over time or if there's some other reason I should think about as to why that spread might exist? I think the way we're looking at our gross margin is that we've had some improvement in this past quarter and frankly over probably the last 3 quarters on lowering some of our acquisition costs.
Clearly we haven't seen some of the inflation aspects that we have experienced in years past which helped drive a little bit some of the retail increases which can be beneficial to gross margin.
As we mentioned before AutoAnything has probably a drag to the tune of 37 to 40 basis points per quarter for the last 3 quarters.
So that masked some of the productivity that the merchant organization has done in terms of improving their overall gross margin.
And then keep in mind that we're obviously growing our Commercial rate -- Commercial business at an accelerated rate which also as that we mentioned in the prepared comments continues to be a little bit of a headwind on our gross margin rate overall.
That business gets to be a bigger piece of the pie but we've dealt with that for several quarters several years and we've done a good job of being able to demonstrate improvement in gross margin in spite of that.
So we look at our gross margins relatively healthy it continues to grow.
I think we're doing a great job from a sourcing perspective.
I think we -- our supply chain organization runs a pretty tight ship.
We clearly had some headwinds from AutoAnything but again we're kind of focused on dollars and not so much the rate.
LLC</strong> So Bill I appreciate that comment.
I guess I was just trying to make sense more of the level than the pace of change and I just would have thought that kind of level-for-level that you guys would be with the private label and the commercial mix difference I guess I would have thought that you guys would be kind of head and shoulders above but -- so that was kind of one thing.
And then the second question I had is around the average ticket moderating.
Can you talk to us about kind of the age of the vehicles that your parts are servicing and maybe the size of job if that's been the issue or if it's really more like-for-like price deflation or disinflation? Yes I don't think it has anything to do with the mix of products that we're selling based on the age of vehicles.
It's really in the last several years we had fairly significant inflation in commodity-based products oil-based products steel-based products lead-based products and really at an accelerated rate over what we've seen in the past.
And so we had some fairly significant average ticket growth.
That has not only waned it's basically ceased.
And in some cases as Bill just mentioned it's going backwards.
And so it's put a short-term or mid- to short-term headwind on the average ticket.
We don't think it's something that's structural over the long term once we anniversary it in another couple of quarters.
We think it will probably go back to a more normalized rate.
The next question is from Michael Lasser with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious about how you are communicating some of the changes you're making to your business to your customers.
So with the inventory investments are you messaging that to the Commercial customers? And if not now do you plan to do that over time especially as there should be or potentially could be some business up for grabs in the dislocation following some of the M&amp;A activity? Yes I think that's a terrific question.
Number one a lot of the changes that we are making are tests so they're discrete tests in discreet markets.
And while we don't want to go out on a macro basis and talk about it because we don't know if those tests are going to be successful we don't know what the ultimate outcome will be the people on the ground in the local market are certainly going out and sharing with their customers what the changes are.
Once we finish and I've talked about the inventory availability tests we have going on it's going to take us about the balance of this fiscal year I think and we believe until we have that figured out where we're going.
Once we have that solved then we will have a more robust communication plan and marketing plan either leveraging our very talented sales force or other mechanisms.
But it's too yet -- it's too early yet to do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My follow-up question was on the inflation topic.
Given that it's just been such an important theme this year is there a way you can potentially quantify what the impact has been over the last few quarters to your comp? And do you -- how do you expect that to unfold as we enter calendar 2014? I mean it's been between 1% and 2% off of its historical norms.
Sometimes in the last couple of years it's even higher than that.
But over what the long-term trajectory of average ticket growth has been it's been between 100 and 200 basis points off of that.
As far as winter debates we've been dealing with it now in a big way for the last couple of quarters.
Once we anniversary that hopefully it will subside some and start increasing back at more normalized rates.
The next question is from Matt Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My first question relates to your comment on advertising spending.
I know you spoke about SG&amp;A sort of more theoretically as you thought about the year.
You did talk to a shift in ad expenses out of Q1.
Can you talk about perhaps when and how you intend to redeploy those dollars? And any rough sizing will also be very helpful.
Yes I think we probably called down if I recall in the press release it was somewhere around 10 basis points or so.
And it's really just a shift Matt from Q1 to Q2.
So I suspect some of those dollars will be spent more in Q2 and it's really just more of a timing shift than anything else.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And in terms of your inventory investment to date the incremental inventory has been basically completely funded by your payables ratio and I guess you have yet to find a ceiling as to how long that can continue.
As you continue to build the inventory and it sounds like it's working for you would you expect to continue to have neutral working capital implications from that decision? I think we'll have to see exactly how these tests work out and how much inventory we will continue to add and we will continue to add inventory over the next several quarters.
So our -- we would love to have it to be a neutral working capital impact but we'll have to see how that shakes out.
It may have a little bit of pressure on working capital but I would suspect if it does it will probably be a year or 2 from now.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then third and finally you spoke explicitly about your retail or DIY market share and I realize that there might be third-party data sources that made that a bit more accessible to you.
The real pickup to your point in rate of change seem to be in commercial where you saw some nice acceleration in the underlying commercial same-store sales.
Do you have a sense as to whether that is a market share dynamic for you? Or would that in your view relate to some pickup in the market overall? Yes I'd say a couple of things Matt.
Number one we've been gaining commercial share very consistently over a long period of time.
Over the last 12 months before this quarter our rate of growth had slowed in Commercial.
That reaccelerated in this quarter.
However on the Retail side where we had grown market share for 3 years over the last 12 months we were not growing market share and we were losing some market share.
We began to reemerge with growing market share over the last couple of months.
That doesn't make a trend yet but we're encouraged by it.
So I would say it was really a pickup in share in both is what we saw.
The next question is from Bret Jordan with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on the inventory build that I think you commented that some of the less productive inventory in the store was being replaced with some of the new inventory.
And I guess as we look at maybe expectations on inventory turn as you're building this can you offset what in theory I guess would be slower-turn inventory because it's the incremental product that it was not the high velocities that you would normally stock.
Will you be able to offset some of that slowing inventory turn off the build by taking out some of this unproductive inventory you're finding in the stores? I would say in fairness probably not completely.
I think if we can make a tradeoff in order to be able to have more inventory locally in the marketplace to be able to say yes on a more frequent basis that's ultimately what we're trying to do.
We believe that on a long-term basis that will improve market share.
So I wouldn't say that we are going to do exactly what you just said but I would not necessarily think that it's going to increase our inventory turn.
I would add one thing too Bret.
As these new algorithms that we've created we have a high degree of confidence in them.
But we're being more aggressive on the inventory adds than we are on the deletes.
If we add inventory too early in the life cycle of the vehicle it's no big deal.
It will be in the life cycle 2 years from now.
We want to -- we're doing about 1/2 of the deletes now and we'll come back and do the other 1/2 next year.
So that will also be a little bit of a pinch point for us over the next 12 to 18 months.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess have you said what you think logistically you can get personal or inventory updates.
It sounds like we're going to build for a few quarters now.
I guess inventory up 9% year-over-year.
Is that sort of a growth rate we might see for the next -- for the balance of the year? Or give us a sort of an idea where we might shake out at the end of the day.
I wish I could give you more clarity.
The inventory growth that we had this quarter we said about 40% of it was due to the new rollout of algorithms.
We anticipate that will continue -- that portion of it will continue for the next 3 quarters.
The big unknown is we have these big tests that were out there trying to understand increasing inventory in hub stores trying other hubs -- increasing the assortment in hub stores even farther and they will service other hub stores and these daily or -- excuse me more frequent deliveries out of our distribution centers.
We just don't know where that's going to go right now.
As we get towards the end of the tests we will be as clear as we can be with you where that's headed but it's just too early to make that call right now.
The next question is from Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> On that -- follow-up to that inventory per store question is there a way to track how much of that inventory investment let's say attributed to Commercial comps or DIY comps or overall comps this past quarter? Internally yes.
Externally we wouldn't disclose that necessarily.
So we're going to be able to track what we believe the lift in sales is for that incremental inventory by channel.
But we're seeing as we always have when we've added inventory improvement in both sides of the business.
So it's not an effort to improve inventories strictly for one particular side of the business.
Both Retail and Commercial both benefit from the increase in inventory.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But you did mention that the Commercial side seems to be responding more to the hard parts.
So it sounds like there's a little bit more lift on the Commercial side.
Well they're concentrated on the hard parts side of the business so yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the DIY share side is there a way to -- can you look at that data regionally to see where -- were you losing share in certain regions and is that -- is it coming back and stemming and then coming back in those similar regions? The market share information that we have has changed over the last couple of years.
We used to have very detailed information of very broad set of our direct competitors that allowed us to see very granular information at the category level and at the regional level.
That went away I guess almost 2 years ago now.
So in that data set we can only see national information based upon hard parts and nonapplication-specific parts.
There is another data set that is a broader group of retailers includes some mass and other sectors outside of us that's sales floor only.
And we can see on the sales floor-only things on a very large regional basis.
But because the data is not that big it's not that helpful for us to dig in on a regional basis.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then on the -- that 10-basis-point advertising shift out of 1Q to 2Q just so we understand is there more expenses on top of that shift that you're referring to or the pressure on expenses I guess versus what you saw this quarter year-over-year.
Is it strictly related to advertising or is there also more payroll and other expenses coming in? I think the way we articulated is think about the advertising as kind of a standalone and there should be a little bit of a shift from Q1 to Q2.
I don't want to anticipate our overall advertising expenditures to be dramatically different this year versus last year in totality but there may be a shift between the quarters.
I think one of the things that Bill was highlighting earlier was that we were aggressive on some of our expense control in Q2 last year that as we look back on it and know some of the things that we're doing now with the initiatives with a more normalized winter with a little bit of sales momentum that we want to be able to keep that in track.
And so we're going to manage our expenses mindfully but at the same time we're going to want to be able to deliver great customer service and continue to focus on capturing market share.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then the last one just in terms of AP to inventory I mean how high is high? Did you ever think that you would get to 115%? Obviously the inventory per store additions is actually diluting that down a bit so the underlying trend seems to be higher there.
Is there an upper boundary of where you think that number can go? Again no problem.
I don't know if there's an upper boundary per se.
Although we're mindful of the fact that again we want to be able to say yes on a more frequent basis.
So winning for us is going to be driving commercial sales and driving retail sales and not necessarily getting to a specific AP to inventory ratio per se.
I think as we look over time and we determine what the appropriate inventory levels are it's really going to be a function of whether inventory turns slows a little bit.
And if inventory turns slows a little bit then the AP to inventory ratio will begin to cap out at some point in time and moderate.
So we feel great about what we've accomplished.
The merchandising organization has done an outstanding job of helping them manage to those kinds of industry-leading numbers and we'll continue to push it.
But I don't expect to see a significant amount of upside to that just yet.
The next question is from Seth Basham with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> You guys mentioned a moderation in average ticket on the DIY side.
But help me understand better what's going on in the Commercial side as you're adding inventory? Are you seeing average ticket increasing? And is that being driven by number of units in the basket or price or something else? Yes.
Number one we don't focus nearly as much on average ticket and customer account in Commercial.
We're trying to bundle as much as we can in every single delivery.
And so that can have some fluctuations that aren't necessarily demand-based like they are on the Retail side.
What I would tell you is that the commodity piece is certainly a much smaller part of the business than the commercial piece.
So the loss of that commodity-based inflation would not be seen at the same -- to the same degree in Commercial.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
I guess the reason I asked is because if you're getting more units from that basket your profitability on each delivery is probably going to move up.
I want to understand as you make these inventory investments and get additional sales how does profitability coincide with that incremental capital you're spending and what's going to happen to returns on capital over the next 2 quarters? We can barely hear you.
Research Division</strong> Sorry.
Let me repeat that.
What I'm trying to understand is as you're making investments in inventory at the same time you're trying to grow your commercial sales you're going to make more profitable sales if you had more units in that basket per transaction.
And I want to understand that balance.
Are you going to see returns on capital moderate over time or are you going to be able to offset that with improved profitability on your commercial sales? Yes obviously any growth that we get into Commercial business is in and of itself very additive to return on invested capital.
The real question is going to be what comes out of these inventory investments that we make over time.
And as I said earlier some of that's yet to be known.
The bigger piece to me on the broadening the inventory assortment is not necessarily that it's additive to the basket.
What we're trying to do is be able to answer our Commercial customers' call and say yes every time.
And in some cases it's not about a basket play as it is about getting that next phone call when they have an odd part.
And so I don't necessarily think it will be as much about basket as it will be about just moving up the call list for that Commercial customer.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Lastly a follow-up on SG&amp;A.
You guys mentioned incremental expenses in the next quarter.
Does -- do any of those expenses have to do with plans for the Affordable Care Act? Did you make any changes to the way your labor mix is between part-time and full-time or do anything else that might impact your health care costs going forward? That's a good question.
No we're not really doing anything structurally in response to the Affordable Health Care Act.
I would say that overall though in the short term we expect to have some increase in costs as a result of the act.
I don't think it's going to be material.
We're more interested to see how the legislation plays itself out over the next couple of years.
I think it will have a bigger impact 2 to 3 years from now than it will for the next 12 months.
So we don't expect it to be a big storyline in the fiscal year 2014 for us.
The final question today is from Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I want to start with just a housekeeping one Bill.
The weak shift that impacted DIY which quarter does that come back in? I assume the second or third quarter just given the seasons? Yes it will kind of mute itself out over the year but kind of pick up a little bit of it in the second quarter.
It's just that the bigger impact of that fourth quarter which is the summer month swapping that out for a November week is the biggest or the most dramatic switch.
But it will kind of mute itself out throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then another comment you made about the leverage ratio the 2.5x net-to-EBITDAR you mentioned that you managed through a credit rating and not a leverage number.
And I just wondered if your discussions with the rating agencies have shifted at all especially given advance and the sort of leverage they're taking on and the rating they've kept while doing that? No no changes.
I just wanted to be clear that we want to be at around this BBB stable credit metric.
That's what we focus on.
Predominantly each of the credit agencies have their own individual metrics as they determine how they're going to rate us.
And so we just used 2.5 as a rounded number for you guys in order to do your models.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the inventory increase it sounds like your -- I can see why it wouldn't hurt AP-to-inventory ratio today.
But if it's slow-turn inventory and you're now buying it the reason you mentioned 1 to 2 years is that's sort of on the back end.
If the stuff hasn't sold in a year or 2 it's because it's slow-returning.
Is that how we should think about it when we model it out? Yes and just keep in mind that we're talking in test mode at the moment.
So we'll determine exactly how much we wind up adding and where it is and what the impact is going to be and have more knowledge about it as we begin to roll it out.
And as Bill said we'll probably spend the next several quarters working through the test determining what works well.
But the quick answer is yes that would be one way to think about it.
If it plays out that way that if it does slow-turn it would probably happen a year or 2 from now just given the nature of our overall turn.
But again we're all about putting inventory into the local market in order to say yes on more frequent basis.
We want to drive sales.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then lastly on Commercial sort of to tie that together if I take the program growth and the total dollar growth I get that they're pretty much the same.
And I know new programs have less productivity.
But assuming that that encompass sort of low to mid-single digit in Commercial if that's the metric to watch when would you expect this inventory if the test is working to actually start to inflect that upwards? I think it's going to take us a while to number one get this inventory into the marketplace.
As I've mentioned it's going to take about a year even to get it out there.
Once we get it out there than we can have a more comprehensive campaign -- marketing campaign to talk to our customers about it.
So I think we need to be careful not to be looking forward in the next quarter or 2.
I think it will build over time but it may not be as material as being able to highlight it at the macro level.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Bill Rhodes for closing comments.
Yes before we conclude the call I'd just like to take a moment to reiterate that we have a long and strong heritage of consistent impressive performance.
We are currently working on a variety of exciting new initiatives and tests that we believe will enhance our performance over time.
Ultimately our AutoZoners have delivered year in and year out and I'm highly confident they will continue to do so.
Thank you for participating in today's call and we'd like to wish everyone a very happy and healthy holiday season and a prosperous new year.
Thanks for participating today.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you very much for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the AutoZone conference call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question and answer session of the conference.
Please be advised today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
This conference call will discuss AutoZone's third quarter financial results.
Bill Rhodes the company's Chairman President and CEO will be making a short presentation on the highlights of the quarter.
The conference call will end promptly at 10:00 am Central time 11:00 am Eastern time.
Before Mr.
Rhodes begins the company has requested that you listen to the following statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Certain statements contained in this presentation are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use words such as believe anticipate should intend plan will expect estimate project position strategy and similar expressions.
These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends current conditions expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including without limitation credit market conditions the impact of recessionary conditions competition product demand the ability to hire and retain qualified employees consumer debt levels inflation weather raw material costs of our suppliers energy prices war and the prospect of war including terrorist activity availability of consumer transportation and construction delays access to available and feasible financing and changes in laws or regulations.
Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31 2013 and these risk factors should be read carefully.
Mr.
Rhodes you may now begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone’s 2014 Third Quarter conference call.
I hope everyone had a wonderful Memorial Day weekend.
With me today are Bill Giles Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer IT and ALLDATA and Brian Campbell Vice President Treasurer Investor Relations and Tax.
Regarding the third quarter I hope you’ve had an opportunity to read our press release and learn about the quarter’s results.
If not the press release along with slides complementing our comments today is available on our website <a href="http://www.autozoneinc.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.autozoneinc.com</u></a>.
Please click on Quarterly Earnings Conference Calls to see them.
To begin this morning I want to thank all AutoZoners across our organization for delivering another solid quarter operationally and financially.
This morning we reported our 31<sup>st</sup> consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings per share growth.
While past success is no guarantee for future performance this consistency in earnings is something we strive to attain each and every quarter.
This morning we’ll discuss our sales results and provide you some details on regional and product sales trends.
We’ll also provide some detail on the cadence of sales throughout the quarter.
Next we will update you on our various initiatives.
We’re very excited about all the initiatives being worked and believe our progress can benefit the company’s sales and earnings trajectory for years to come.
For the quarter we reported a total sales increase of 6.2% while same store sales were up 4%.
In retail we experienced same store growth in both traffic and ticket although ticket growth continues to be subdued versus historical growth rates due to the lack of inflation.
As expected during the quarter the deferrable maintenance categories that were challenged during the harsh winter rebounded nicely while the failure-related categories that were so strong during the winter continued to grow but at slower rates than in the second quarter.
These category sales trends also existed in commercial as well but weren’t as pronounced as they were in retail.
Overall domestic commercial sales growth accelerated to 14% this quarter versus 12% last quarter.
We continue to be pleased with our progress in commercial and we see tremendous opportunities for additional growth through further penetration of existing customers and acquisition of new customers.
For the quarter we opened 137 new programs to finish with 76% of our domestic stores operating commercial.
This brings our year-to-date openings to 311.
We expect to open approximately 400 programs this fiscal year.
While weather has been a big topic throughout the retail sector recently we felt weather in general didn’t have a material impact on our results.
We felt the bigger story was the rebound in the deferrable maintenance categories; however our west coast markets were challenged for the quarter and we attribute that to milder wetter weather conditions in those markets.
During the quarter our sales trends were strongest during the first part of the quarter when winter initially subsided and tax refunds began in earnest.
Tax refund season has become a more important driver of our business in recent years as our customers’ discretionary spending has been more challenged.
During the latter part of the quarter our sales fluctuated consistent with the weather patterns.
We continually to believe our customers are financially strained.
One recent additional pressure point has been the increase in gas prices.
During the quarter gas prices increased $0.29 and are currently $0.07 higher than the same time last year.
Based on the dialog we see across retail the low end consumer seems to be particularly challenged.
Our all other businesses sales increased 7% over last year.
The deceleration versus the last several quarters is due to the annualization of the Auto Anything acquisition in December.
The all other segment of businesses includes Auto Anything.
AutoZone.com and ALLDATA.
These businesses performed in line with our expectations.
Now I’d like to review our initiatives for the year.
Our operating theme this year is creating customers for life and the key priorities for the year are: great people providing great service; two profitably growing our commercial business; three leveraging the internet; four leveraging technology to improve the customer experience while optimizing efficiencies; and five improving inventory availability.
On the retail front this past quarter under the great people providing great service theme we continued with our intense focus on improving execution.
We continued to enhance our operating systems to make them as intuitive as possible.
We also continued to invest more payroll in our stores.
Last year we managed expenses especially tight as our sales results were below our expectations.
This year as we expected sales to improve with all of our initiatives we wanted to make sure we represented our brand well so we added payroll.
One area of specific emphasis the last few years has been on the safety of our AutoZoners.
We felt our rate of injuries in our stores and in our vehicles were unacceptable.
We owe it to every AutoZoner to provide a safe working environment.
While these efforts are nowhere near complete I’m quite pleased and impressed by our team’s relentless focus on safety and our performance in this area has shown significant improvement.
After a strategic review in the winter of 2012-2013 last spring we began to design develop and implement tests focused on improving our local market inventory availability.
Our markets are designed to improve inventory coverage in all stores increase the frequency of replenishment from our distribution centers offer broader assortments from our hub stores leverage the broadest assortment in select hub stores increase stores’ inventory holding capacity and finally improve our overnight delivery of hard-to-find products.
I’d first like to congratulate all the AutoZoners that are working on these initiatives.
We have made more progress in the last 12 months than I would have expected.
To date we have learned a tremendous amount.
Most of our efforts have had encouraging results but this has led us to develop additional tests.
We are in a position today to have a definitive point of view on the ultimate outcomes.
It will likely take several additional quarters.
One of the initiatives was to improve the hard parts placement methodology in all stores.
We completed our testing last spring and began implementing last summer.
As of the end of Q3 the majority of this effort is complete.
We have been pleased with our results to date as the new items we have added have performed generally consistent with our expectations.
While this effort certainly adds additional product it also removes unproductive inventory at an accelerated rate compared to our previous methodology.
In this initial phase we decided to be less aggressive with the deletes than the additions.
Based on our performance to date we anticipate deleting the balance of those unproductive items over the course of the next year concurrent with our category reviews.
Regarding increased frequency of delivery from our distribution centers and/or leveraging select hub stores with expanded assortments we have substantial work and testing to complete but the initial results are encouraging.
These initiatives are somewhat competing initiatives and our current focus is to determine the optimal methodology.
Additionally we are beginning to test different delivery frequencies to determine the most effective approach.
Also this quarter we opened a few stores with a quote-unquote new prototype.
To the casual observer not much has changed as the majority of the changes are in the back room and are focused on increasing the holding capacity in the hard parts area.
This change significantly increases our holding capacity and we will be migrating to this new plan in the fourth quarter for new stores.
The combination of these tests has led to increased inventory and additional costs.
Again we have learned a tremendous amount and we are encouraged by our results but we still have substantial testing to complete.
We will keep you abreast of developments in future calls.
Additionally we expanded our total hub locations by one finishing at 161 and we continued to expand or relocate hubs.
We have now expanded or relocated 120 hubs.
We expect to continue to open a modest number of new hubs and our expansion relocation efforts are also continuing.
As we mentioned on last quarter’s earnings call we’ve introduced the idea of being more digitally integrated and we made this one of our four strategic growth priorities along with retail commercial and international.
While in an early stage we believe this can be an important and significant opportunity for us to deepen customer relationships and grow sales.
At this point in the evolution of our online offering we’re focusing more on data compilation and building a knowledge portal than on current sales.
Today shoppers use our websites for educating themselves on what they need for their vehicles and they continue to buy the vast majority of what they need from our stores.
Our objective is to satisfy our customers’ needs regardless of how they want to interact with us.
As we head into the final quarter of our fiscal year we remain optimistic on our prospects.
Although we have some concerns about the health of the consumer due to ongoing financial strains and increasing gas prices we are pleased with our execution and excited about our ongoing strategies.
We are encouraged by increasing traffic counts and the increases we have experienced in the deferrable maintenance categories which we expect to continue through the summer.
Additionally our acceleration in commercial further builds our confidence in our strategies and tactics to address this vitally important growth vehicle.
Over the long term we remain bullish on our industry’s sales growth opportunities in retail commercial international and on the digital front.
As our results highlight we are intensely focused on delivering consistent performance investing more aggressively in times of strength and managing our expense structure tightly during more challenging periods.
We also reported another strong performance in return on invested capital as we finished Q3 at 32.4% slightly ahead of last year.
We are proud of this metric as it is one of the best if not the best in all of hard lines retailing.
However our primary focus has been and continues to be that we ensure every incremental dollar of capital that we deploy in this business provides an acceptable return well in excess of our cost of capital.
It is important to reinforce that we will always maintain our diligence regarding capital stewardship as the capital we invest is our investors’ capital.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Bill Giles.
Bill? Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
To start this morning let me take a few moments to talk more specifically about our retail commercial and international results.
For the quarter total auto parts sales which includes our domestic retail and commercial businesses our Mexico stores and our four stores in Brazil increased 6.1% over the 12 weeks.
Regarding the macro trends during the quarter nationally unleaded gas prices started out at $3.38 a gallon and finished the quarter at $3.67 a gallon.
Last year gas prices decreased $0.07 per gallon during the third quarter starting at $3.61 and ending at $3.54 a gallon.
We continue to believe gas prices have a real impact on our customers’ abilities to maintain their vehicles and we will continue to monitor prices closely in the future.
We also recognize that the impact of miles driven on cars over 10 years old the current average is much different than on newer cars in terms of wear and tear.
Miles driven data reported by the Department of Transportation are available only through February.
January was down 1.3% while February was down 0.8%.
The other statistic we highlight is the number of seven-year and older vehicles on the road which continues to trend in our industry’s favor.
Another key macro headwind last year was the payroll tax reinstitution.
While we do not expect to benefit this year we simply are anniversarying a negative event from last year.
It is hard to gauge what benefit this has had or will have on our traffic but it won’t be an additional pressure point like last year.
For the trailing four quarters total sales per auto parts store was $1 767 000.
This statistic continues to set the pace for the rest of the industry.
For the quarter total domestic commercial sales increased 14%.
Domestic commercial sales represented 17.3% of our total company sales and grew $50 million over last year’s Q3.
Last year’s commercial sales mix as a percent was 16.2%.
We believe there are ample opportunities for us to continue to improve many facets of our operations and offerings and therefore we are optimistic about the future of this business.
Year-to-date through Q3 we have opened 311 new programs versus 195 programs last fiscal year.
We now have our commercial program in 3 732 stores supported by 161 hub stores.
With only 76% of our domestic stores having a commercial program and our average revenue per program below several of our competitors we believe there is further opportunity for additional program growth in addition to improved productivity opportunities in current programs.
The tests on inventory that we have conducted provide us with information on how to close the gap with competitors that are more productive in commercial than we are today on a per-outlet basis.
With the support of additional inventory available in markets and a more seasoned sales force we believe we have long runway to grow both traffic and ticket with our commercial customer base.
As Q3 showed improvements from Q2 we believe we’re on the right track to continue to show growth.
In summary we remain committed to our long-term growth strategy.
We have accelerated the growth of our commercial programs having opened 1 200 programs in the past 36 months which is 32% of the programs are three years older or younger.
We believe we are well positioned to grow this business and capture market share.
Our Mexico stores continue to perform well.
We opened seven new stores during the third quarter.
We currently have 374 stores in Mexico.
Our returns and profit growth continue to be in line with our expectations.
Regarding Brazil we currently are operating four stores and our plans remain to open approximately five more stores over the next year and the pause our development as we refine our offerings and prove that our concept works for our customers and is financially viable.
At that point we will talk more on our long-term growth plans.
Recapping this past quarter’s performance for the company in total our sales were $2 342 000 000 an increase of 6.2% from last year’s third quarter.
Domestic same store sales or sales for stores open more than one year were up 4% for the quarter.
As Bill mentioned earlier this quarter’s results were very much in line with last quarter’s.
We continue to evaluate our inventory additions and the impacts we’re having on sales results.
We feel we’re well positioned for the upcoming quarter to grow sales.
Gross margin for the quarter was 52% of sales up 17 basis points versus last year’s third quarter.
The improvement in gross margin was attributable to the higher merchandise margins and lower shrink expense partially offset by the higher supply chain costs associated with current year inventory initiatives.
In regards to inflation we continue to see modest decreases in cost year-over-year and this is different than in past years.
At this point our assumption is we’ll experience subdued producer pricing for the foreseeable future and therefore we feel costs will be predictable and manageable.
We will remain cognizant of future developments regarding inflation and will make the appropriate adjustments should they arise.
Looking forward we continue to believe there remains opportunity for gross margin expansion within both the retail and commercial businesses; however we do not manage to a targeted gross margin percentage.
As the growth of our commercial business has been a steady headwind on our overall gross margin rate for a few years we have not bothered to call out the headwind quarterly – it is an integrated part of our business model.
Our primary focus remains growing absolute gross profit dollars.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 31.5% of sales higher by 39 basis points from last year’s third quarter.
The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of sales was primarily due to the higher store payroll and the benefit recorded last year for the net gain on disposal of certain assets.
We continue to believe we are well positioned to manage our cost structure in response to our sales environment.
EBIT for the quarter was $479 million up 5% over last year’s third quarter.
Our EBIT margin was 20.5%.
This represented a decrease of 22 basis points versus the previous year’s third quarter.
Interest expense for the quarter was $36.2 million compared with $42.1 million in Q3 a year ago.
Debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $4 378 000 000 or approximately $380 million more than last year’s Q3 balance of $4 billion.
Our adjusted debt level metric finished the quarter at 2.5 times EBITDAR.
While in any given quarter we may increase or decrease our leverage metrics based on management’s opinion regarding debt and equity market conditions we remain committed to both our investment-grade rating and our capital allocation strategy and share repurchases are an important element of that strategy.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 35.6% slightly lower than last year’s third quarter of 35.8%.
This quarter benefited from certain discrete tax items.
Net income for the quarter of $285 million was up 7.4% versus the prior year’s third quarter.
Our diluted share count of 33.7 million was down 7.7% from last year’s third quarter.
The combination of these factors drove earnings per share for the quarter to $8.46 up 16.4% over the prior year’s third quarter.
Related to the cash flow statement for the third fiscal quarter we generated $463 million of operating cash flow.
Net fixed assets were up 6.3% versus last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $102 million and reflected the additional expenditures required to open 37 new stores and four relocations this quarter capital expenditures on existing stores hub store remodels work on the development of new stores for upcoming quarters and information technology investments.
For all of fiscal 2014 our CAPEX is expected to be approximately $440 million.
With the new stores opened we finished this past quarter with 4 901 stores in 49 states the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico 374 stores in Mexico and four in Brazil for a total store count of 5 279.
Depreciation totaled $58.1 million for the quarter versus last year’s third quarter expense of $52.9 million.
With our excess cash flow we repurchased $420 million of AutoZone stock in the third quarter.
At quarter-end we had $307 million remaining under our share buyback authorization.
Our leverage metric was 2.5 times this past quarter.
Again we want to stress we manage to appropriate credit ratings and not any one metric.
The metric we report is meant as a guide only as each rating firm has its own criteria.
We continue to view our share repurchase program as an attractive capital deployment strategy.
Accounts payable as a percent of gross inventory finished the quarter at 114%.
Next I’d like to update you on our inventory levels in total and on a per-store basis.
We reported an inventory balance of $3.1 billion up 12% versus the Q3 ending balance last year.
Increased inventory reflects new store growth along with additional investments and coverage for select categories.
As we highlighted earlier we have been focused on improving our local market inventory availability.
There are several aspects of this initiative including improving the placement methodology of hard parts at the store level which through Q3 is largely completed.
This activity contributed to an increase in inventory per store which was up 8.6% at $594 000 per store reflecting our continued investments in hard parts coverage.
Finally as Bill previously mentioned our continued disciplined capital management approach resulted in return on invested capital for the trailing four quarters of 32.4%.
We have and will continue to make investments that we believe will generate returns that significantly exceed our cost of capital.
Now I’ll turn it back to Bill Rhodes.
Thanks Bill.
We’re pleased to report our 31<sup>st</sup> consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth.
Our company continues to be successful due to a long-term focus.
We focus on delivering exceptional customer service and executing at a high level consistently which we believe is a competitive advantage.
To execute at a high level we have to adhere to living the pledge.
Like our operating theme for this fiscal year states we must focus on creating customers for life.
We cannot and will not take our eye off of execution.
Success will be achieved with strong attention to detail.
The initiatives we are working on around inventory assortment hub stores commercial growth Mexico ALLDATA ecommerce and Brazil are all very exciting to us.
We feel these efforts will lead to increasing sales for many years to come.
While our industry sales according to MPD data made available to us were higher than last year’s results we must remain focused on enhancing every facet of our business.
While it is exciting to see our industry doing well we cannot become complacent.
We are just starting to implement our initiatives and while encouraged we still have a tremendous amount of work in front of us to determine the optimal approach.
Our long-term model is to grow new store square footage at a low single-digit growth rate and we expect to continue growing our commercial business at an accelerated rate.
As we continue to execute on our financial model we look to routinely grow EBIT dollars in the mid-single digit range or better in times of strength and we leverage our very strong and predictable cash flow to repurchase shares enhancing our earnings per share into double digits.
We believe our steady consistent strategy is correct.
It is the attention to details and consistent execution that will matter.
Our belief is a very thoughtful operating strategy combined with superior execution is a formula for success.
We are investing in the key initiatives that will drive our long-term performance.
In the end delivering strong EPS growth and ROIC each and every quarter is how we measure ourselves.
We remain committed to delivering on our strategic and financial objectives.
Now we’d like to open up the call for questions.
Thank you very much.
Question for Bill Rhodes – can you maybe just provide a little bit of color on performance of the hubs that have so far been expanded relative to the ones that remain to be expanded? What do the productivity differences look like between the two? And then I have a follow-up if I may.
Yes thanks Alan.
They’re fairly significant.
Now what happens in many of the cases is the hubs as they were didn’t have the space necessary to have the entire parts assortment that we wanted to have in those hubs and so when we relocate them we make sure—or expand them we make sure that they have the physical space to hold all the inventory that we want.
That inventory we’ve already determined in the other locations is productive inventory so it’s just a function of getting the space.
So they performed fairly significantly better.
Any quantification of significantly better? I mean are the expanded ones doing 20% better than non-expanded or is it higher or lower than that? I don’t have the quantification in front of us.
What I can share with you is like any other investment that we have the expansions are generating a 15% after-tax IRR because that’s what we hold them to so that’s not only the inventory load but also the expense that goes into the remodel or move as well as the additional square footage.
Okay and one follow-up if I may.
With respect to trying to increase the frequency of delivery if you look at your product assortment what proportion of your products would you say need to be available for delivery same day versus one day versus maybe two days and where are you relative to that today? One of the interesting facts is 70% of the SKUs that are in our stores have one piece on the shelf so what that means is if we sell it during the week we’re out of it for up to eight days.
So what we’re finding in the daily replenishment model is that the biggest benefit comes from the items that are stock one and stock two and so the frequency of delivery allows us to be in-stock much quicker.
Now one of the things we’re doing is we’re testing five day a week delivery.
Now we’re going to go out and that’s why we’re saying we don’t know what we’re going to do we’re going to go out we’re going to test other cycles – two times a week three times a week to determine what the optimal approach is.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you.
Just following up on Alan’s question is there a way to measure with your customers the fill rate that you’re getting in these expanded hubs? Are you asking are we able to— Well I know you measure it but could you give us some quantification that way in terms of what percent of the orders are you satisfying from the customers versus what you were before you added the inventory? I think one of the ways to think about it Gary from a hub perspective is what we look at is the lift that we get out of the satellite stores that are basically pulling merchandise and product from the hubs.
In essence that was product that they might not otherwise have been able to say yes to so I won’t be able to quantify that for you right now but the fact is that as Bill said before we’ve got our return metrics that we are looking at to determine what kind of lift each satellite store gets as we expand the hub and add more inventory into the hub and that’s kind of how we measure it going forward so that ultimately is showing up in your comp store sales performance as well.
Thanks and then just to follow up and I’ll get off – Bill you talked about the seven-plus like your type of vehicles has been growing and continuing growing but there’s some concern about the five- to seven-year-olds as the 2009’s now start hitting the equation.
What are your thoughts on that? Yes there’s a little bit of a dip in that five- to seven-year-olds but the more important point is that the number of registered vehicles hasn’t really changed significantly so we still have the same number of vehicles out on the road and so you do have a little bit of a dip if you will if you look at the timeline.
But for us the advantage is that we do continue to see vehicles age and that’s helpful for us and so we’re finding that our cycles or our lifecycle of product is actually getting expanded out a little bit further.
Great thank you very much.
Thanks a lot.
Good morning.
Thanks a lot for the color that you offered us on the composition or the mix of business as you made your way through the May quarter.
As you think about the August quarter and you think about the weather that you’ve experienced year-to-date particularly the after effects of the tough winter and you think about failure and for maintenance product how do you envision the mix evolving – I know it’s somewhat forward weather dependent – and if you could talk about the gross margin implications of that outlook.
Okay.
The best analog that I think we have for what a harsh winter will or will not do for your business performance is two years ago Matt when we had a very mild winter.
If you remember we called out for some time that that mild winter really hurt us and it particularly hurt us in the deferrable maintenance categories.
Well now we’re coming off of a very harsh winter.
When we came into this quarter we said we anticipated that the failure items would slow down a bit which they did and we anticipated that we would see an increase in the deferrable maintenance categories – think about brake systems chassis and the like.
That’s what we saw.
Our expectation is that those trends will continue for some time and certainly through the summer months.
As to the ramifications on our gross margin it’s not material one way or the other.
We typically – and I don’t think we have ever called out – that we’ve had a shift in product mix that has been a key driver of our gross margins.
Great and then a second question that I want to ask a brief one – so obviously you disclosed commercial total revenues and it’s sort of to us to think about what the comparable store trajectory might be like and to do that we need to think about the productivity of the new unit.
Can you talk about as you’ve moved deeper into the base with the commercial rollout how the sales per new commercial program has been evolving over the past couple or three years relative to recent trend? Yes I would say it’s remarkable that the new stores – and we track them out period out to 13 periods how are they doing on both sales and EBIT – and it’s remarkable the consistency of those new store openings although they are getting slightly better year-over-year-over-year which is counterintuitive.
You would think that they would be performing worse because hopefully we’ve opened the best programs earlier on in the life cycle but I think as we get better in commercial and as we learn how to open programs better they are getting marginally better even as we go to the less desirable programs although they are very desirable.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you so much.
Hi thanks.
I have two questions one on sales and a follow-up on inventory.
You talk about sales through the quarter starting strong with tax refunds and weather and failure and then getting more volatile towards the end.
Could you help us with the magnitude of that? Was the early part of the quarter 2x what the end of the quarter was? Yes I would say probably.
I wouldn’t say exactly 2x but I think it certainly softened up a little bit towards the tail end of the quarter and that’s always an odd time of the year anyways.
We’re kind of past the tax season before the summer season really gets started so it’s not unexpected for us to have a bit of sales volatility during that last period of the third quarter and we experienced it this year.
I think part of it was that we just started out very strong.
I would also add if you recall this quarter’s call last year we talked about a strong April and the fact that we maybe we were getting out of the challenges that we had experienced.
so April was a particularly tougher comparison versus last year.
Got it and would it be fair to say that traffic was positive through the whole quarter even though it maybe got a little more volatile towards the end? Yes I think that’s fair to say.
Okay great.
And then my follow up was Bill you mentioned your comments on inventory that now were largely complete in terms of the additional items going in for commercial and that we would now sort of flush out the slower turning SKUs in the ensuing near during normal negotiations.
What does that do to gross margin and working capital as you go through that? Yes and just to clarify in some of these product placements we’re largely done.
We still have some more things to do from a hub perspective et cetera in terms of adding inventory et cetera so I still think we have some opportunities to improve our coverage overall.
I think from a gross margin perspective we wouldn’t anticipate that the inventory additions would have a significant impact on our gross margin rate by themselves necessarily.
I mean obviously we continue to believe there’s opportunity for us to improve gross margin rates and I think from a working capital perspective we obviously reported AP to inventory of 114% this quarter versus 111% last year and as we’ve said before we don’t anticipate our AP to inventory percentage increasing significantly going forward.
We do believe that there will be a little bit of pressure on AP to inventory or working capital as we move in the next six 12 18 months or so but we believe that we can kind of maintain close to these levels.
That’s great.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks.
A question for Bill Rhodes regarding inventory productivity.
You noted that inventory per store is up a little over 8.5% yet if you look at gross profit dollars per store they were up slightly more than 4%.
So I guess my question when you look at the let’s say the (indiscernible) ROI on these new SKUs are you seeing diminishing returns from before you began the program? Clearly.
The inventory that we’re adding today is significantly less productive than the inventory that’s in our base assortment – no question about it.
But when we run our models we are very confident that even though it’s less productive that it can be a productive investment for us and we’re pretty pleased with how they’re performing so far.
Then as a follow up I believe this is the first instance since the fourth quarter of 2009 that operating margin rate declined year-over-year.
Interestingly you achieved very good sales growth in 4Q ’09 as well but it does raise questions that with your operating margins well above the industry average – obviously the highest in the industry – do you think we’re beginning to see a peak in operating margin rate? In the spirit of full and fair disclosure last quarter we had a declination in operating margin as well so that’s— Okay oh yes.
But you’re right though – ’09 was the previous spot Dan.
At the end of the day we’re focused on growing operating profit dollars at high returns so that’s ultimately what we’re focused on.
We want to grow sales gain market share and we want to deploy our capital which includes inventory and expenses in a manner which continues to generate high returns so that is ultimately our objective.
So we’re not 100% focused on just increasing our EBIT margin necessarily quarter-in and quarter-out although we’ve done a very good job of that consistently over the years.
So is this the peak? I don’t know the answer to that question.
We’re not focused on the EBIT margin per se.
We’re focused on operating profit dollars and generating high returns.
<br>If I may I would add one thing – in 2005 when we created our reinvestment plan our operating margins were at an all-time high of 17.5%.
They went down to about 17% in 2006 and everybody was saying okay this is the beginning of the migration back to the mean in the industry.
Clearly over time we found ways to be more productive and increased our operating margin almost 250 BPs above that point in time so I have a high degree of confidence that this team will continue to find ways to make this business more productive but we’re not going to get focused particularly on a quarter-to-quarter basis if we have some deterioration in the operating margin as long as we’ve got good returns.
Great thank you.
Thanks good morning.
I think when you started talking about testing changes that you’re making in commercial business about two quarters ago you thought it would take about a year to assess and complete the tests.
Is this still the timeline and once you do decide to take a direction how long will it take to implement? And then just in addition to that how does private label come into play with the testing of your commercial strategies and the increases in inventory? Okay.
On the first one as far as the timeline I think we’ve been fairly vague about the timeline because we don’t know what we don’t know and I say that to say we had an initial test on daily deliveries.
Now we’re saying wait a minute – we need to go test different frequency of delivery so that’s going to push out our timeline a little bit.
But each initiative is not necessarily dependent upon the other so we’ve already finished what we call the optimal hurdle which is store SKU placements.
We’ve now gone into a new prototype – we’ve made a decision on that and we’re moving forward so every one of them is not necessarily going to be on the same timeline.
But the bigger broader ones which by the way whatever decisions we make could have significant implications we want to be careful and we want to make sure that we’ve got the right amount of information and that we have a long enough testing period so it’s reliable.
As far as how private label plays into this number one we don’t consider it private label.
We think Duralast is the best and strongest brand in the automotive aftermarket and I hope you’re enjoying our new marketing featuring Chuck Liddell.
But I don’t see that any of this testing to date has proven to change any of our strategies.
I’ll remind you that we have some very strong brands that are national brands in our stores both on the sales floor and in hard parts and where we find that there’s a good value proposition that the customer thinks is important we will carry a brand be it a Duralast brand or someone else’s brand.
Thank you.
Thanks good morning.
So two follow-up questions – first on the gross margin can you talk about the outlook there? And you had some pressure in the supply chain from the inventory additions that you put into the stores.
Does that continue and is it related to that deleting process that you mentioned earlier in the script? Not so much the deleting process as it is just the overall increase in inventory movement if you will and so I would expect us to continue to have a little bit of pressure on supply chain costs for the next few quarters.
From a margin perspective we continue to believe—we haven’t had a lot of inflation in the last probably year and a half and sometimes inflation can be your friend from a gross margin perspective so we’ve done better—you know our merchandising organization has done some really good things in order to try to improve cost from sourcing and optimizing how we’re getting product into the country so I think that there continues to be some opportunity for us to continue to grow our gross margin rate.
Obviously the Duralast product continues to do well and as we continue to increase its penetration that will also help improve gross margin rate overall.
So although we have some pressures here and there I think we feel pretty positive about our gross margin rate going forward.
And on the deleting side does that create some sort of markdown risk at the store level that you need to clean out the SKUs that you don’t want? Typically not.
Many of the deletes we’re able to push through the system and sometimes we’re able to push it back to the vendors as well so historically deletes has not resulted in necessarily margin pressure.
And then the follow-up on the commercial sales per store it was according to our calculation down a couple percentage points year-to-year so just following up on that productivity question was there anything else that would have driven it down on a year-to-year basis besides the comments provided previously? Not too much other than just the number of stores that we’re opening on a quarterly basis.
I think we probably accelerated our commercial program growth rate on a quarterly basis higher this year than we did last year.
Okay thanks very much.
Hey good morning.
A quick question a follow-up I guess on two questions around brand and Duralast versus national brand.
Do you have more national brand inventory in stock this quarter versus a year ago? Is there any change in the weighting? I wouldn’t say it’s material.
There’s pushes and pulls in various categories but I wouldn’t say there’s any material change.
Okay and then a follow-up – you commented on the new prototype store allowing more hard parts in the box.
Could you describe that a little bit more maybe how much incremental product can get into the store and what type of investment is involved in reformatting? Well number one we haven’t made any decisions to go quote-unquote reformat.
These are for the new stores that we’re going to be opening some of them in the fourth quarter.
Certainly after the fourth quarter they’ll all be opening with this new prototype.
It has a little bit incremental capital and expense to open the new store but not material but it will carry more than 20% additional hard parts than the current prototype that we have today.
Now over time we’re going to see how it performs.
We have some stores that do very high volumes so some of these elements we might want to go back and put them in there but we haven’t made any of those decisions at this point in time.
Okay and then one last question.
On your internet sales volumes did Auto Anything or the online initiative grow at a faster rate than the category? I guess all other was up 7%.
Did the online sales exceed that? I’d say a little bit yes.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Hi good morning.
I wanted to follow up on the inventory issue as well.
I think a couple questions ago someone asked about the productivity of the new inventory you’ve put into stores but maybe I’ll ask the question – if you look at the incremental inventory you’ll be continuing to put in the stores for a longer period of time now is there a way to think about what type of sales benefit should be derived from that? Maybe said another way what type of sales are not occurring because the inventory is not there? Yes I think in essence Brian that’s what we’re trying to figure out at some level so obviously we can quantify internally the productivity that we’re getting out of our adds to date but the real question will be is when we’ll be more expansive on our rollout of inventory and execute some of these tests that we’re talking about as to what that will ultimately mean in sales.
So I couldn’t give you a number today as to exactly what that would be but obviously we’ll continue to monitor it internally.
Got it.
Then just as a follow up to that you continue to—the AP leverage is quite remarkable.
Will that change or will AP leverage kind of stay where it is even as you put more inventory in? I think as we put more inventory in the question is going to be the productivity of the inventory as a group overall and so as inventory turns slow a little bit if they do then that will put a little bit of pressure on your AP to inventory ratio slightly.
Obviously our merchandising organization continues to work with our vendors in order to optimize turns so that we’ll continue to work hard at maintaining our AP to inventory ratio where it’s been historically.
But I think looking forward we don’t necessarily expect it to increase at the levels it has historically.
Got it thanks.
Hi thanks.
Good morning.
Had a question around labor – I think you mentioned in the release you were adding labor to some stores.
Can you help us think if that’s more DIY oriented more commercial oriented and then I had a follow-up for you.
Thanks.
Yes.
Number one I would say it’s both and we’ve really moved to managing our labor more on a holistic basis rather than just DIY or commercial over the last year or so as part of our one team strategy to make sure that we’re serving all of our customers exceptionally regardless of how they interact with us.
When you think about the labor increase this year and it happened in the second quarter and it happened in the third quarter the biggest reason for the labor increase is we really managed labor very tight last year and in some respects we are annualizing that very aggressive management of labor because we had very tough sales trends.
One thing I’m proud of this organization we’ve performed very well regardless of industry headwinds or tailwinds and last year we had to be very aggressive.
So we’re just annualizing that – there’s no change in strategy really.
So there’s no change in where you’re let’s say sourcing your parts pros from? Is there a mix of internal versus external and if that should change? And then the follow-up I had was also around just the general harsh winter that we had as you were coming into this quarter I’m just wondering whether or not you thought the harsh winter weather would have given you kind of even more benefit than you ended up getting or how it compared to the expectations you might have had coming in.
Yes I would say number one we’re not sourcing our people from any different sources than we have on a historical basis.
Secondly I would say that our sales performed a little bit better in the third quarter than our expectations particularly when the winter subsided and the tax refunds were flowing.
We had some tremendous weeks in that period of time so I would say it rebounded quicker.
And then we’ve been encouraged by the deferrable maintenance categories and how they’ve continued to perform throughout the quarter.
In thinking about how to compare against the year from now if this was more favorable than you might have thought and then I’ll hop off.
I’ll say the second quarter is going to be a daunting sales quarter.
I mean we just had a tremendous weather pattern and our failure categories were off the charts in the second quarter.
Now on the other side our deferrable maintenance categories were down so it will be what it will be.
We’re up to the challenge regardless of what we’re lapping next year.
All right thank you.
Best of luck.
Good morning.
Thanks a lot for taking my questions.
I’m curious about what performance metric you’re seeking to maximize with all the different initiatives you having going – the availability inventory payroll.
Is it return it is margin it is sales? What are you seeking to maximize and how do you think you’ll get there? Well as we’ve said for a long time our two performance metrics are EBIT dollar growth and return on invested capital.
That’s been our incentive compensation program for 12 or 13 years now.
It continues to be.
So if you think about what we’ve decided are the most important metrics those are it.
Okay and then my second question—sorry go ahead? Go ahead.
My second question was on some of the comments you made around productivity of your commercial programs.
The new ones continue to do better so I guess inherently that means some of the more mature ones are degrading a little bit.
Is there any—a is that true and b are there any common characteristics about what’s driving the degradation in performance in some of the older commercial programs? Thank you.
I would not infer that the older commercial programs are degrading; in fact they’re continuing to grow.
What’s happening is we’ve opened what 1 400 new locations over the last four years so our maturity of the commercial programs is fairly significantly different than it was four years ago.
So I would not read anything into the average weekly sales being relatively constant – they’re all moving in the right direction.
We just have a higher percentage of new programs.
Good morning guys.
Bill would you comment a little bit—not to beat a dead horse with this inventory issue but can we just talk a little bit about when you talk about those maturity of programs I guess the other factor is now that you’re at 76% hub sort of commercial program penetration is what we’re talking about is finding that optimization point to whether you can go to 90% commercial programs or I guess the other way to look at it is how variable are these programs across the country when you open them in terms of breadth of inventory say compared to three or four years ago with import parts et cetera? Yes it’s a great question John.
Number one I wouldn’t say across the country that there’s great variation.
I would say it depends on the market and the demographics so they perform differently in dense urban environments than they do in suburban environments versus the way they do in rural environments.
They do different in heavy Hispanic or African-American or Caucasian environments.
But what we’re finding as we go deeper and deeper is every—more and more stores have the potential than we thought so we’re continuing to grow at a pretty rapid rate.
We’re not closing a lot of programs – in fact very very few and I think as we continue to improve our commercial business then we find that we can operate in places we didn’t think we could before.
So I don’t think we know—well I will tell you we do not know what the ultimate answer is.
I think we suspect it’s higher than we ever thought it was before and the better we get hopefully those expectations will continue to go up.
And the last question there is when you’re in a new market is that incremental part that we’re talking about here that maybe stocked out today with this incremental inventory can you move up on a call list when you have that incremental part? Does that help? Absolutely.
You know when you first engage with a customer you don’t start at number one at least not on very many occasions.
A lot of times you’ll start as fourth or fifth call.
Well if nobody else in town has it now you’ve got an opportunity to impress that customer so they call you with something they didn’t think you would have and you have it and then you give them prompt great service and guess what? Now you’ve got a chance to start moving up that list.
And all those tests are just trying to optimize the capital required to get that there? That’s correct.
Thanks a lot.
And the expense structure as well.
It’s a pretty heavy math problem honestly.
Great thanks.
Okay.
Before we conclude the call I’d just like to take a moment to reiterate what separates us from other players in our industry.
It’s of course our culture which is very special.
Being part of the AutoZone family is very unique across the retail landscape.
We are currently working on a variety of exciting new initiatives that we discuss and test and that we believe will enhance our performance over time.
Ultimately our AutoZoners have delivered year-in and year-out and I’m highly confident with them leading the charge our future is incredibly bright.
Thanks for participating in today’s call.
Have a great day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and welcome to the AutoZone Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question and answer session of the conference.
Please be advised today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
This conference call will discuss AutoZone's fourth quarter financial results.
Bill Rhodes the Company's Chairman President and CEO will be making a short presentation on the highlights of the quarter.
The conference call will end promptly at 10:00 am Central time 11:00 am Eastern time.
Before Mr.
Rhodes begins the company has requested that you listen to the following statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Certain statements contained in this presentation are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use words such as “believe ” “anticipate ” “should ” “intend ” “plan ” “will ” “expect ” “estimate ” “project ” “positioned ” “strategy” and similar expressions.
These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends current conditions expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including without limitation: credit market conditions; the impact of recessionary conditions; competition; product demand; the ability to hire and retain qualified employees; consumer debt levels; inflation; weather; raw material costs of our suppliers; energy prices; war and the prospect of war including terrorist activity; availability of consumer transportation; construction delays; access to available and feasible financing; and changes in laws or regulations.
Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the “Risk Factors” section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31 2013 and these Risk Factors should be read carefully Mr.
Rhodes you may now begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone’s 2014 Fourth Quarter conference call.
With me today are Bill Giles Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer IT and ALLDATA and Brian Campbell Vice President Treasurer Investor Relations and Tax.
Regarding the fourth quarter I hope you’ve had an opportunity to read our press release and learn about the quarter’s results.
If not the press release along with slides complementing our comments today are available on our website www.autozoneinc.com.
Please click on Quarterly Earnings Conference Calls to see them.
To begin this morning I want to thank all AutoZoners' across the globe for another solid quarter and year.
2014 was a very busy and productive year for us.
We’ve been growing our business on a variety of fronts.
Our U.S.
retail business expanded again in 2014 with the opening of another 148 new stores.
Our commercial business continues to gain traction growing sales 12.8% on a 52-week basis with 424 net new programs opened.
We now had a commercial program in 77% of our domestic stores having opened 792 new programs in just the past two years alone and we continued to expand our presence in Mexico.
This quarter we celebrated the opening of our 400th store in Mexico.
We opened one additional store in Brazil and now have five stores in operation.
We currently have approximately 8% of our total stores outside of U.S.
and we believe we have growth opportunities in the United States and beyond for many years to come.
We also expanded our online offerings in both our traditional autozone.com and autozonepro.com website as well as AutoAnything in fiscal 2014.
ALLDATA introduced several new products and also continued its expansion in Europe this past year.
Along with these strategic investments we spent a lot of time on our core domestic retail business.
Our DIY business remains the largest portion of our sales and continues to generate tremendous returns.
We continue to see significant opportunities for new store growth and improved productivity in our existing stores.
This continues to be our number one priority.
As our commercial business continues to grow and it is intertwined with our retail business we continued to identify opportunities to optimize our inventory placement and distribution strategy in order to respond to the ever increasing challenge of parts proliferation in our industry.
We began testing a new methodology last year to improve our hard parts placement techniques in all stores.
During this past fiscal year we completed our testing and implemented this new approach.
We’ve been able to add additional products while removing unproductive inventory at an accelerated rate compared to our previous methodology.
This has resulted in an increase to our store level inventory.
This increased movement of inventory has also resulted in higher distribution cost.
We’ve been pleased with our results today but continue to rely on the new process.
As we’ve mentioned during our last quarterly call we’ve been testing different delivery frequencies primarily from our distribution centers.
We’ve been encouraged by the preliminary results although we still have more work to do in order to determine the optimal go-forward strategy.
Our tests have shown us that increased delivery frequency increases sales and improves inventory productivity by reducing safety stock.
We now have implemented additional test to validate our initial findings and provide us with sufficient data to develop the optimal approach.
While we are more aggressive with our inventory additions this past year we feel future investments will be more targeted and refined.
We believe our growth and inventory for our store will continue but in a more modest pace than last year.
As we carefully analyze all of our test we expect to have more to discuss in each of the next several quarters.
As we continue to manage this organization to provide exceptional service for our customers to provide our AutoZoners with a great place to work with opportunities for advancements.
We must ensure we do it on a profitable basis to provide strong returns for our shareholders.
This process requires us to have a higher degree of confidence in our plans before executing on a broad basis.
We’ll be holding our national sales meeting in Memphis next week.
All week and again during my address to the team as the conclusion of the events we are introducing the idea of “Why every customer every where”.
We have always been focused on service but this annual operating things adds intensity and renewed focus.
We spent significant systems; we’ve made significant systems enhancements and investments this year in order to capture data by our customers shopping patterns across all of our platforms.
We understand we have to be able to toggle between the store the shop the phone and online in order to meet our customer’s needs.
We also emphasize our ongoing inventory availability test and what they will mean for availability in 2015.
I’d like to take a moment to discuss our pending acquisition of Interamerican Motor Corporation doing business in the market place as IMC.
They are the second largest distributor of OE quality import replacement parts in the United States.
They specialize in parts coverage for European and Asian vehicles.
While considerably smaller than the number one participant in the industry IMC with 17 branches today offers an impressive growth opportunity for us.
Not just because of the parts coverage but also because of the strong management team.
They are an exceptional team.
We do not believe there is a significant overlap with our current commercial customer base and IMC.
This new customer base is one of the reasons we are excited about this acquisition.
This is a segment of the service repair population that demand OE quality.
While we are comfortable with our ability to grow our current business with our existing model IMC will be a nice compliment our commercial strategy.
We expect to open a handful of IMC locations in the new fiscal year while also making the IMC parts catalog available to our domestic store base as soon as possible.
We also believe we can help IMC improve its store level economics.
I do want to stress we will be diligent with our growth strategies here and make sure our financial hurdles are reached as we grow.
We look forward to welcoming the entire IMC team to the AutoZone family soon.
<i></i> Now let’s turn to our fourth quarter results.
Our sales decreased 1.5% but on a comparable 16-week basis they were up 4.5%.
Our domestic same store sales were up 2.1%.
This quarter sales results can be summed up in one word “inconsistent”.
While May was quite strong and June was decent July was not as strong.
August improved but results were still quite inconsistent from one week to the next.
We attribute much of this volatility to both unique weather and the belief that the low end consumer continues to struggle.
We are happy to have run both positive retail and commercial comp sales for the quarter but expected a stronger sales performance in Q4 than we delivered.
Regionally the Northeast and Midwest performed better than the overall chain; however these two markets experienced similar volatility to the rest of the country in July and August.
While our failure-related merchandised categories continued to perform well our maintenance related categories were below our expectations.
We attribute much of this category’s underperformance to an unseasonably mild weather in July and August.
Secondly in regards to traffic versus ticket in the DIY business traffic was negative while ticket was up.
The decline in traffic was primarily attributable to the slow down of our maintenance product sales.
After growing lower than our historical moments over the last year average ticket growth accelerated in Q4.
Third we opened 113 new commercial programs in the quarter versus 173 programs last year.
For the year we opened 424 net programs for the full year reaching 77% of our domestic store base.
To put our growth in the commercial business in perspective at the end of 2011 we reported $1.08 billion in total sales compared to $1.61 billion in 2014 up 50% in three years.
Lastly I always like to recognize how effective our team delivers consistent earnings in good sales environments and not so good and that practice has allowed us to deliver an impressive 32 consecutive quarters of double digit EPS growth.
That consistently allows us to be both shareholder friendly with solid earnings growth and bond holder friendly through a targeted investment grade rating and strong cash flow.
We continued to manage this business for both short term and long term optimum performance.
As part of our strategy of increasing inventory levels in local markets closer to our customers this past quarter we opened five additional hub locations.
Overtime we do expect to open more hub locations but we believe our strategy on inventory deployment at the store level allows us to keep the number of openings at a moderate level.
Regarding Mexico we opened 28 stores this quarter and reached a milestone of surpassing the 400 store mark.
Our sales in the other businesses for the quarter were down slightly year-over-year on a 16 versus 17 week basis; however as a reminder ALLDATA and e-commerce which included AutoZone.com and AutoAnything make us this segment of sales.
Regarding online sales opportunities there continue to be great opportunities for growth on both the business to business and two individual consumers or B to C.
While these businesses are small for us at just 3.6% of our total sales mix on the quarter we expect these businesses to grow at a faster rate than our brick and mortar business for the foreseeable future.
With the continued ageing of the car population we continue to be optimistic regarding the trends of the industry in both the DIY and DIFM.
While new car sales have been very strong these past two years we have seen those traded in vehicles to be resold to new owners who are repairing or enhancing their new vehicles.
With gas prices on average flat year-over-year for the fourth quarter we see miles driven relatively flat as well.
As prices at the pump have recently been declining we expect this to benefit our customers especially those most financially strapped.
The low end consumer benefits the most from lower gas prices relative to income this trend is encouraging.
I know of [familiar] pumps many investors had asked us about our expectations for 2015 relative to the more difficult comparisons our industry will have in the upcoming winter months.
For us our second and third quarter results are more difficult comparisons.
However we are optimistic we can grow on all our upcoming quarters while certain markets outperformed during the winter this past year others under performed.
We believe we should improve in those regions.
As our history has shown we managed this business focusing on both the long term and the short term and we felt our sales would be challenged in the short term if we felt ourselves to be shown in the short term due to difficult comparisons we wouldn’t make material changes to our plan or operations.
We will continue to balance short term and long term performance and will be keenly focused on delivering consistent strong performance and extending our streaks of 32 consecutive quarters of double digit EPS growth.
Now let me review our highlights regarding execution of our operating themes 2014 creating customers for life.
The key priorities for the year were : one great people providing great service; two profitably growing our commercial business; three leveraging the internet; four leveraging technology to improve the customer experience while optimizing efficiencies; and five improving inventory availability.
On the retail front this past quarter under the great people providing great service theme we continued with our intense focus on improving execution.
This past year we rolled out improvements to our electronic parts catalog.
While this has rolled out to our chain earlier in the calendar year we learned some things as the year went off.
We made some modifications along the way.
These changes were around how we displayed product on the screen and presented all the items necessary to do the job right.
These upgrades and our other ongoing ones to the systems we believe have created the best selling tool in our industry.
And our store AutoZoners agree we look forward to updating you on the results in upcoming conference calls.
Behind the scenes we have reset our expectations on technology investments and challenged ourselves to make sure our offerings are relevant across all shopping platforms.
We realize as customers have become much more tech and mobile savvy we have to have a sales proposition that touches all the way as they desire to interact with us.
Our current and future technology investments will lead to sales growth across all our businesses.
In regards to commercial we opened 113 programs during the quarter.
For the year we opened 424 versus 368 last year.
Our expectation is we will continue to open new programs and grow our percentage of stores with commercial programs although our pace of growth will likely moderate.
As we continue to improve our product assortment and availability and as we make other refinements to our offerings we expect that the estimated sales potential from the market will grow.
Our results continued to provide us confidence to be aggressive in adding additional resources and new programs to this important growth initiative which also highlight another strong performance in return on invested capital as we were able to finish 2014 at 31.9%.
We are very pleased with this metric as it is one of the best if not the best in all of hard lines retail.
However our primary focus has been and continues to be that we ensure every incremental dollar of capital that we deployed in this business provides an acceptable return well in excess of cost to capital.
It is important to reinforce that we will always maintain our diligence regarding capital stewardship as the capital we invest is our investors’ capital.
Before I pass the discussion over to Bill Giles to talk about our financial results I’d like to thank and state how proud we are of our entire organizations efforts to manage this business appropriately and prudently.
We have an amazing team and our initiatives for 2015 are exciting.
With our ongoing supply chain initiatives as well as an incorporation and expansion of our acquisition of IMC we are ready to continue to provide wide customer service to all our customers and we are ready to continue to prudently manage our cost structures to providing our shareholders with a consistent feat we have exhibited in the past.
Now here’s Bill.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone.
To start this morning let me take a few moments to talk more specifically about our retail commercial and international results for the quarter.
For the quarter total auto parts sales which includes our domestic retail and commercial businesses our Mexico stores and our five stores in Brazil increased 4.5% on 16 week per 16 week basis.
Including last years extra week our sales decreased 1.5%.
Now regarding the macro trends during the quarter nationally unleaded gas prices started out at $3.67 a gallon then ended the quarter at $3.46 a gallon a $0.21 decrease.
Last year gas prices decreased $0.07 per gallon during the fourth quarter starting at $3.54 and ending at $3.61 a gallon.
We continue to believe gas prices have a real impact on our customers’ abilities to maintain their vehicles and as cost reductions help all Americans we hope to benefit from some increase and disposable income.
We also recognize that the impact of miles driven on cars over 10 years old the current average is much different than on newer cars in terms of wear and tear.
Miles driven increased in both May and June; July and August data is not available yet.
The other statistic we highlight is the number of seven-year and older vehicles on the road which continues to trend in our industry’s favor.
For the trailing four quarters total sales per auto parts store was $1 724 000.
This statistic continues to set the pace for the rest of the industry.
For the quarter total commercial sales increased 5.3%.
On a comparable basis commercial sales increased 11.5%.
For the fourth quarter commercial represented 18% of our total sales and grew $27 million over last years Q4.
Last year’s commercial sales mix percent was 16%.
This past quarter we opened a 113 new programs versus 173 programs opened in our fourth quarter of last fiscal year.
We now have our commercial program in 3 845 stores supported by 166 hub stores.
Approximately 1 200 of our programs are three years old or younger.
Let me take a moment and discuss our commercial program performance.
While our average sales per program is below some peers in our industry at $8500 it has grown more than 30% since 2009.
It’s important to highlight that we accelerated our new program growth over the past few years as approximately 30% of our programs are younger than three years old.
These openings have impacted our average sales metric and cannibalized some of our older programs.
However our focus is on growing market share and improving our service levels by having more programs closer to our customers.
Looking specifically at our matured programs those at least five years old they averaged $10 000 in weekly sales this past year and also experienced steady growth each of the last five years.
This year’s growth versus last year slowed in these programs but were nicely positive.
We still have significant opportunity to open additional programs over the next several years at the same time we will remain focused on improving the productivity of all our existing programs.
But obviously -- we feel very good about the success we’ve had and profitably growing the commercial business.
With our inventory additions and the support of the IMC acquisitions we are well positioned to grow our base business.
Over the last several years a significant amount of our focus has been on opening new programs and that will continue to be the case albeit at a slightly moderated case.
However we are hiking our emphasis on increasing sales and our more mature store base in fiscal 2015.
We have a very talented sales force and we are enhancing training and introducing additional technology to optimize the productivity of the sales force.
We have increased our efforts around analyzing customer purchasing trends and inside trends.
In summary we remain committed to our long term growth strategy.
We believe we are well positioned to grow this business and capture increased market share.
For the [trailing] at this point our assumption is -- I’m sorry.
Let me just move onto for Mexico for a second.
Our Mexico stores continue to perform well.
We opened 28 new stores during the fourth quarter and 40 for the full year.
We currently have 402 stores in Mexico.
Exceeding 400 stores that’s a terrific milestone and we congratulate all AutoZoners involved with Mexico on this achievement.
We look forward to years of growth here.
Our returns and profit growth continue to be in line with our expectations.
Now regarding Brazil we opened one store in the quarter and have five stores opened at the end of the year.
Our plans remain to open a few more stores and then we find our offering improved our concept works for our customers and is financially viable.
While sales growth has been very encouraging we are operating currently at a loss.
Business that’s expected to having such a small store base and carrying distribution center and overhead they can handle far more stores.
Once we refine our offerings and operations and evaluate the performance we will talk more on our long term growth plans.
Recapping this past quarters performance for the company in total our sales were 3 billion plus $50 million and increased to 4.5% on a comparable 16-week basis from last years fourth quarter.
Domestic same store sales or sales for stores open more than one year were up 2.1% for the quarter.
Gross margin for the quarter was 52.3% of sales up 48 basis points.
The improvement in gross margin was attributable to lower acquisition cost and lower shrink expense partially offset by higher supply chain costs associated with current year inventory initiatives.
In regards to inflation it has been basically non-existent year-over-year.
This is different than in past years.
At this point our assumption is we’ll experience subdued producer pricing pet events of the calendar year and therefore we feel costs will be predictable and manageable.
We will remain cognizant of future developments regarding inflation and we’ll make the appropriate adjustments should they arise.
Looking forward we continue to believe there remains opportunity for gross margin expansion within both the retail and commercial businesses; however we do not manage to a targeted gross margin percentage.
As the growth of our commercial business has been on a steady headwind on our overall gross margin rate for a few years we have not specifically called out the headwind quarterly – it is part of our business model and we understand we have to manage that headwind as the business grows.
Additionally IMC will be a [side] track on gross margins as this business model operates at a lower gross margin rate.
Our primary focus remains growing absolute gross profit dollars in our total Auto parts segment.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 31.6% of sales higher by 37 basis points from last year’s fourth quarter.
The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of sales was primarily due to a combination of de-leverage from the 17th week of sales last year higher incentive compensation and planned information system investments.
IMC will also have a slight impact on SG&amp;A dollars in the upcoming quarters while these expenses will cause slight de-leverage and we expect they will have lasting benefits to the overall organization.
We continue to believe we are well positioned to manage our cost structure in response to our sales environment.
EBIT for the quarter was $630 million down 0.9% over last year’s fourth quarter.
Our EBIT margin improved to 20.7%.
Excluding the extra week our EBIT margin was up 22 basis points and our EBIT dollars grew by 5.7%.
Interest expense for the quarter was $49.4 million compared with $57.4million on a comparable basis in Q4 a year ago.
Debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $4 344 000 000 or approximately $160 million more than last year’s balance of $4 187 billion.
Our adjusted debt level metric finished the quarter at 2.5 times EBITDAR.
While in any given quarter we may increase or decrease our leverage metrics based on management’s opinion regarding debt and equity market conditions and we remain committed to both our investment-grade rating and our capital allocation strategy and share repurchases are an important element of that strategy.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 35.7% up from last year’s fourth quarter.
We expect our annual rate to be close to the 36.7% on an ongoing basis as the deviation result was primarily driven by the resolution of discrete tax items that arise.
Net income for the quarter was $374 million excluding the extra week net income was up 7.4%.
Our diluted share count of 33.1 million was down 7% from last year’s fourth quarter.
The combination of these factors drove earnings per share for the quarter to $11.28 up 15.6% over the prior year’s fourth quarter on a comparable basis.
Related to the cash flow statement for the fourth fiscal quarter we generated $370 million of operating cash flow.
Net fixed assets were up 8% versus last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $176 million and reflected the additional expenditures required to open 113 new stores this quarter.
Capital expenditures on existing stores hub store remodels work on the development of new stores for upcoming quarters and information technology investments.
For all of fiscal 2014 our CapEx was approximately $440 million.
With the new stores opened we finished this past quarter with 4 984 stores in 49 states the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico 402 stores in Mexico and five in Brazil for a total store count of 5 391.
Depreciation totaled $79 million for the quarter versus last year’s fourth quarter expense of $71 million inline with recent growth quarters.
With our excess cash flow we repurchased $188 million of AutoZone stock in the fourth quarter.
This is lower than last year’s buyback as the extra week last year and the EBITDA it generated provided additional leverage capacity.
At year-end we had $869 million remaining under our share buyback authorization and our leverage metric was 2.5 times.
Again I want to stress we manage to appropriate credit ratings and not any one metric.
The metric we report is meant as a guide only as each rating firm has its own criteria.
We continue to view our share repurchase program as an attractive capital deployment strategy.
Accounts payable as a percent of gross inventory finished the quarter at 115%.
Next I’d like to update you on our inventory levels in total and on a per-store basis.
We reported an inventory balance of $3.1 billion up 10% versus Q4 ending balance last year.
Increased inventory reflects new store growth along with additional investments and coverage.
Inventory per store was up 5.8% to $582 000 per store reflecting our continued investments in hard parts coverage.
This first store amount was down from Q3 to $594 000 per store.
Finally as Bill previously mentioned our continued disciplined capital management approach resulted in return on invested capital for the trailing four quarters of 31.9%.
We have and will continue to make investments that we believe will generate returns that significantly exceed our cost of capital.
Now I’ll turn it back to Bill Rhodes.
Thank you Bill.
We are pleased to report our 32nd consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth and for the year to report an EPS growth rate of 16.3% on a comparable 52-week basis.
Our company has continued to be successful over the long run.
That success is attributable to our approach of leveraging our unique and powerful culture and focusing on the needs of our customers.
To execute at a high level we have to consistently adhere to living the pledge.
We cannot and will not take our eye off the execution.
While we study the external environment and react where appropriate we must stay committed to executing day-in and day-out on our game plans.
Success will be achieved with an intention to detail and exceptional execution.
Before I conclude I want to take this opportunity to reflect on fiscal 2014.
We were able to build on past accomplishments and delivered some impressive results in recognition of the dedication passion and commitment of our AutoZoners.
I want to highlight that in 2014 we grew sales in all of our businesses.
With this growth we were able to achieve and comfortably surpass the $9 billion annual sales milestone for the first time on a 52-week basis.
As previously mentioned we opened our 400 stores in Mexico.
We reached a definitive agreement to acquire IMC.
We believe IMC is the right business at the right time for us.
The management team at IMC is exceptional and we can’t wait to grow the business for many years to come.
Our inventory availability testing and hub store remodels have been nothing short of incredible.
We’ve learned a tremendous amount and believe our findings will lead us to more productive models.
We are talking more than ever about innovation as the industry leader it is imperative that we stay ahead; making sure every aspect of our offering has improved from inventory assortments to our commercial offerings to leveraging the power of information technology enhancements.
We can leave no stone unturned.
We invested more in information systems infrastructure this past year than in recent memory an investment that will pay dividends for years to come.
At the end of the day our customers have choices and we must innovate to ensure they turn to us for their vehicle needs.
Again we are excited about our initiatives around inventory assortment hub stores commercial growth Mexico ALLDATA ecommerce Brazil and now IMC.
Our long-term model is to grow new store square footage at a low single-digit growth rate and we expect to continue growing our commercial business at an accelerated rate.
Therefore we look to routinely grow EBIT dollars in the mid single-digit range or better in terms of strengths.
And we leverage our very strong and predictable cash flows to repurchase shares enhancing our earnings per share into double digits.
We feel the track we are on will allow us to continue wining for the long run.
We believe our steady consistent strategy is correct.
It is the attention to details and consistent execution that will matter.
Our belief is solid consistent strategy combined with superior execution is a formula for success.
Our charge remains to optimize our key -- our performance regardless of market condition and continue to ensure we are investing in the key initiatives that will drive our long-term performance.
In the end delivering strong EPS growth in ROIC each and ever quarter is how measure ourselves.
We are pleased with our results this past year but we much remain committed to delivering on our strategic and financial objectives.
I can’t wait to sit down and talk with our leadership team at our upcoming national sales meeting.
This team is comprised of the best leaders in our industry.
We are launching our – while every customer everywhere [same] and I know our leaders combined with our talented team of more than 70 000 AutoZoners will do just that.
Now we’d like to open up the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) The first question is from Alan Rifkin with Barclays.
Thank you very much and congratulations on another nice year.
Thank you.
First question for Bill Rhodes I mean as you look longer term we suspect to IMC.
How should we think of that company long-term as a proportion of your revenues and how will you integrate this at all in a little bit more detail with both your store base as well as Auto Anything? Thank you.
Yes.
Thank you Alan.
It’s a great question.
First of all I want to update everybody that as on last Friday we received HSR clearance.
And so we are working towards closing the deal and hopefully can do it in the next week or so.
So at this point in time our integration efforts as you would expect as we’re going to the regulatory approval process has been minimal.
But we’ll start working that diligently as we go forward.
With respect to our growth plans they currently have 17 branches and there are considerable opportunities for growth.
You can look at the other key player in the industry and they have over 100 branches.
So we look to rollout additional branches.
Three of their branches are new this year and are off to a great start.
So we’re encouraged about the long term with them.
Additionally we think that they can be leverage particularly with our other stores AutoZone stores on both the retail and the commercial side.
They have a product offering that we don’t have today.
So we are very excited about them joining the family and hopefully that’s going to happen in the next week or so.
Okay.
Thank you.
And one follow up if may for either of the Bills.
Is there any structural reason why your less mature commercial stores which are doing 8500 a week cannot get to the level where some of your more mature units are doing which is over 10 000 a week? Yeah.
Let me clarify that.
The 8500 was on average all of our stores Alan.
So we got the more mature stores are averaging 10 000.
The newer stores are even below the 8500 level.
But we’ve been very pleased that we continue to grow at a very rapid pace opening almost 800 new programs in the last two years that those new programs are continuing to perform at or above where they start where the older program started.
So we believe we have a long-term opportunity for them to be very productive.
We also believe the stores that are doing over 10 000 are nowhere near where they need to be.
We had continued growth opportunities with them.
Okay.
But just to clarify Bill so even though some of the units which you’ve added most recently you still that collectively over the longer term that can achieve revenue levels and profitability levels of some of your more mature ones? Yes.
Yes.
That’s absolutely fair.
Thank you very much.
And hopefully beyond that Alan.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from John Lawrence with Stephens.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Hi John.
Yeah.
Bill would you comment to follow on Alan’s question just a little further.
That gap of some of those clients or stores that where you don’t have that merchandise or that line card available.
Can you just give us a sense of some of those stores and what you have available for those that you don’t have today and how big of any opportunity – how large of an opportunity is that? The IMC product offering is vastly different than ours.
It is a branded offering that is OE quality OE manufactures that we don’t necessarily have in our product offering today.
There are certain customers think about the high-end BMW or Mercedes shops that want to use those products and use them pretty much exclusively.
We don’t do business with many of those shops today.
However we do have a lot of shops that are doing that kind of work and then in certain cases want those kinds of products.
This will now allow us in our commercial program to sell those cases to our existing – those products to our existing customers as well.
Great.
Thanks.
And just a follow-up for Bill Giles.
On the G&amp;A as far as technology investments and incentive comp should those stay about the same level going forward? Let’s say that obviously from a management team perspective we hope the incentive comp continues to go up.
But I would say that from an IT perspective we will continue to expect to have some investments in IT over the next fiscal year or so.
As Bill highlighted earlier the several things that we’ve done from a store system structure perspective in order to enhance the information that we’ll provide in our AutoZoners which is ultimately providing to our customers.
So we think there’s some real opportunity for that as well as tying all of our customer information together so we have a better visibility on the activities of our customers.
Thanks.
Good luck and congrats.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Thanks.
Bill we’ve had five consecutive quarters that inventory per square foot is grown between call it 4.5% to 8.5%.
I would have thought by now that these initiatives would have had enough time to get some traction and generate better sales productivity.
It sounds like you’re continuing to refine the test particularly regarding distribution frequency.
Just curious as to why you think that the payoff hasn’t materialized by now and what kind of timeframe would you advice investors to take with a payback? Yeah.
It’s a good question Dan and I think that’s you’re looking at the right way.
I mean we recognize the importance of hard parts coverage.
And every time we add inventory we recognize that it benefits both the commercial side of business as well as the DIY side of the business.
You know and keep in mind to we’re fortunate to be operating in an industry where there’s very low [ops] to lessen inventory and there’s very low financing cost at the moment.
So we think that this is a very good risk reward strategy that we’re taking and it’s an important one for us to continue to gain market share with our customers.
And then other leg of the stool is really the delivery of frequency.
So we’ve added more inventory particularly at the store level.
And then we’re also testing our optimization of the frequency of delivery and the method of delivery to both our satellite stores as well as ultimately to our customers.
And so there’s more work to be done on there.
I think that the test would show that we’ve gotten some good returns on the investments that we’ve made.
They’ve been broad-based in some cases but frankly not although across the chain.
Many of the tests that we’re doing are very isolated.
And in those cases we’re very encouraged with the results that we have.
There’s more learning to be done.
There’s more work to be done.
But we think that adding inventory like I said before is a very good from a risk reward perspective.
We don’t see a lot of exposure but again it’s not fast and its not technology based.
So we think it’s a good way to continue to capture market share.
And then we got to continue to work with the delivery frequency to optimize our overall supply chain.
Just to clarify is there is bottleneck so we’ve added this -- we’ve added inventory either at a distribution center or at a hub but there’s a bottleneck that’s preventing it from getting to the store and effectively sold to your commercial customer? I think one thing to think about and we’ve always talked about this is that 70% of the SKUs that we carry one on hand and so there’s an incredible randomness on the lot of sales of service inventory.
So your ability to predict and to stay in stock is what’s really become challenging.
So I wouldn’t consider it a bottleneck per say.
I think we got distribution center we’ve got hub stores and we’ve got our individual stores.
And it’s really where we have the inventory versus safety and then the frequency of delivery and those of the things that we’re working on right now.
And just a follow-up question.
You noted that the year-over-year comparisons become a lot more difficult in your second quarter of fiscal year ’15 but at the same time we do have some weaker markets that could recover.
I’m assuming you’re talking about the West Coast given the drought conditions out there or can you expect it will continue next year.
What makes you confident that those lagging markets would recovery this coming year? Well obviously we can’t predict the future.
But we did have a lot of strength in the second quarter particularly in the Northeast and the Midwest.
I would also say it wasn’t just the geography issue.
In the second quarter of last year we performed particularly well on the failure-related categories but even at the time we spoke to the fact that the maintenance-related categories think about all the under car things that could be differed had saw significant decreases.
So yeah we have a strong quarter.
We had strength in certain categories in certain geographies at the same time.
The West was weaker in certain categories or weaker.
Okay.
Thank you.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Seth Basham with Wedbush Securities.
Good morning.
Good morning.
The first question I had is just regarding some of your distribution plans.
It seem to me you’re talking little bit more about testing more overnight more frequent deliveries from the DCs to stores rather than focusing on utilization of the hub.
Is that correct? And can you give us some more information on your thinking there? Yes.
That is correct.
We have several different tests that are going on.
Let me go back and remind you.
We talked about something we called optimal hurdle which was refining the store SKU placement across the entire store network.
We finish that testing last summer and it rolled that out.
We’ve been very pleased with the results of that today.
A couple of the other key tests are would – an increase in delivery frequency from our distribution centers to our stores the productive use and we’ve been testing that for about eight or nine months now and so far we’re pretty pleased with the results.
Now we’re taking it the next level and saying okay let’s vary the delivery frequency instead of five days a week what happens at two days a week what happens at three days a week so that we can find the optimal approach.
We’re also testing something which is an expanded SKU coverage even beyond our hub stores in a select number of we call mega hub stores and those mega hubs are also servicing the other hubs stores in the area further extending our same day local market availability.
So we’re still very much in test phase.
We hope to be bringing some of these tests to conclusion over the next several months and then once we make those decisions we will be communicating with you.
Great.
That’s helpful.
And just thinking about some of the mature programs you talked about the growth in these commercial programs still improving but at a slower rate.
What do you think is driving that slowdown especially given the fact that you’re having lot of inventory and what not? Is the cannibalization going on or is it more market dynamics how do we think about that? Yeah.
I think a big part of it is the cannibalization.
As we’ve open these new programs remember several years ago we have 51% of our stores that were on the commercial program.
We’re now at 77%.
When we open a program in an existing market we take the customers that are closer to the new program.
We move into that program.
So there’s a fairly significantly amount of cannibalization that’s in there and that’s impacting those growth rate.
But overall we want to make it clear to you all.
We’re making progress and have been over the last five years and are pleased with it never going as fast as you want to.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Good luck.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Simeon Gutman with Morgan Stanley.
Thanks.
First on what you mentioned on the prepared remarks that August was better but inconsistent.
Can you touch on September as appropriate? And then looking at August its maybe just the past few months whether it weather mix of business or some secular trends? Can you help sort of push that out and if there are markets that haven’t had any weather noise can you tell us where the underlying run rate is? Yeah.
As far as August is concern let me just this every period for us in the quarter had a positive same-store sales growth.
August was certainly better than July which was our weakness point.
In September we have a policy of really not talking about what’s going on in the current quarter because we release our earnings so early in the quarter.
We’re just barely three weeks in and so we don’t think it’s prudent for us to share what’s going on in September so far.
As far as what was driving the trajectory you could very easily see it in the weather and the weather-related categories.
So things like A/C chemicals A/C and heating cooling systems all of those categories were weak for the entire quarter and particularly weak in July and in certain select weeks in August.
So to us it was very much.
When the weather cooperated our sales were strong.
When it didn’t they didn’t.
Okay.
And then second about next year we’re mentioning those stuff compares.
Can you talk about the comp that’s required to lever the expense line.
I think the business right now is doing great on the gross margin.
So that’s helping the gross profit dollars.
So the composition had all change as the SG&amp;A flex a little bit I mean what’s the right level for next year? Yeah.
It’s a good question.
And you know its one that I think varies a little bit I mean the reality of it is if you look over time we’re going to adjust our expense structure based on the sales environment that we’re operating in.
So we’re ultimately focused on growing EBIT dollars and so we’ll have some opportunities in gross margin.
We may make some investment in SG&amp;A but we’ll manage those over the long-term based on the sales environment that we operate on.
So it’s hard to give you a static number per say because at times we leverage on very low comps and times we deleverage on higher comps.
And so we’ll just continue to look at the strategies that we have in place and the investments that we think we’ll help us out on a long-term basis and will adjust based on the sales environment we plan.
Okay.
The lower acquisition costs that were cited this quarter is that normal course of business or did something else change that triggered your ability to lower the COGs? I would say that that’s probably more normal course of business.
I think better work with the merchandizing organization and lower some of the acquisition cost either through sourcing.
There’s probably some deflation in certain categories and that’s probably what’s drove it mostly.
Okay.
Thanks and good luck.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is from Michael Lasser with UBS.
Good morning guys.
Thanks a lot for taking my question.
I was hoping you could benchmark where you think you’re parts availability and your delivery frequency capabilities are relative to your peers? We know that you’ve made good strives in the last several quarters but I think the challenges we don’t know really order of magnitude where you are today versus where you were and what you’re trying to get to? Yeah.
On the delivery frequency we’ve had a long strategy of -- we deliver the vast majority of our stores once a week.
We have competitors that are out there that deliver their stores on a daily basis.
We are in the process of testing delivery frequency.
And I want to emphasize the word “test”.
We’re talking about a few hundreds stores that are on this delivery frequency test.
So what’s going on in those stores is not shown up in our overall numbers in any material way.
We’re going to go up and see what increase delivery frequency means as I mentioned earlier we’ve been please with what we’ve seen so far.
And no surprise as we get inventory closer and as Bill mentioned 70% of our SKUs have one piece on the shelf normally its in our current – we sell that piece.
We’re out of it for up to eight days.
This allows us to put it back on the shelf within 24 hours.
So we’re encouraged but we haven’t made any final decisions yet.
Okay.
And in those stores where you have increased frequency what has been the profitability impact presumably it’s not more expensive to do that? Yes.
It is more expensive and we’ve got four or five different test in different markets throughout now and they have mixed results.
The longest running test is showing that it’s EBIT positive and then it’s generating a 15% IRR or better.
So that’s the threshold that we’re going hold any investment too.
What we’re trying to be careful of is these will be some decisions that have long-term ramifications.
And so we are wanting to make sure that we prudently test them and we validate our test results.
And then determine as what’s the right number.
Whether it should be twice a week or five times a week we don’t know that answer yet.
Okay.
And just to tie all those things together.
If you were to get to daily replenishment or multi-week multi time per week replenishment would you have necessarily sacrifice your profitability rate in order to do that? I wouldn’t say well I cannot sacrifice our EBIT growth rate per se.
But at the end of the day this is about driving EBIT dollars and driving unacceptable IRR which is up 15% for us.
So that’s kind of the way we think about it.
That’s the way we focus on.
It’s going to generate more profit dollars.
Are we going to get an adequate return on the investment that we make? And that’s kind of how we look at it.
So we’re not getting hung up on absolute margin rate per se.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Aram Rubinson with Wolfe Research.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
I understand that some of the commercial businesses is kind of cannibalizing from your mature stores but you’re still at 18% of your mix is commercial I’m not sure where they have a particular goal of where they would like to be but it seems from just reading and studying the industry it seems like that wants to go a lot higher.
So my question is is there’s a reason that you can think of why we’re cannibalizing from ourselves rather than taking business from others is seems to be growing there kind of constant at commercial program? And do you get a sense that we’re all kind of just piling into the same strategy at the same time and maybe that’s making it more difficult competitively? Yes.
I would say the cannibalization is just a natural effect.
If we open a store that is closer to a customer than the existing store that servicing its just makes all the sense in the world for us to move that customer over to the new store so we can service him better delivery times will be shorter and so on and so forth.
So I think it’s not that that’s the only way we can do that’s just the natural course of business.
Yes we only have 18% of our sales – I think that’s up from 16 last year.
It’s no where near where we want it to be.
We believe that we have a long term opportunities continue to commercial in aggressive way.
We have not set any specific number because we don’t want to maximize or put a threshold on where we’re going.
We want to be as big in both businesses as we can be.
As far as the piece of that growing in this business.
I think it just takes time.
We’ve been in this business the shortest amount of time.
We’ve really had a successful growth rate over the last six or seven years and we are very confident track that we’re on and with the strategies that we have.
Thanks.
And on the DIY side can you tell us a little bit about your market share whether you feel like you’re growing that market share or is that kind of stagnating or slipping.
And then also where does ecommerce fit it into that market share equation on the DIY side is that beginning to make any material inroads? Thank you.
I think on the ecommerce side when we look at the industry broad-based we think that there is some opportunity for online sales although it is in the significant penetration like it is in other industries.
We recognize that a lot of people are coming for information relative it’s to be a content of the product or repair information etcetera.
So we think that’s an integrated approach overall and that’s how we’re approaching it.
From a market share perspective I think we’re holding our own.
And so our growth seems to be close what the overall industry is growing at at the same time we’re growing square footage growth rate at about 3%.
So overall I think we’re holding our own from a market share perspective.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you so much and good morning.
My first question relates to the IMC acquisition.
If you could shed a little bit of light on the economics of the business revenue per store compared for (inaudible) store and the roll of online in that business and then also just give us a sense to the pace and the impact of the perspective rollout of their catalog to AutoZone stores? I’m seeing overall revenue is around $10 million per location is about what they average overall.
And so as far as what the overall impact would be on us on an ongoing basis as Bill mentioned before and so trying to get through the close and get our implementation ran integrated and started we’ll be able to give you a little bit more color.
I think in terms of getting even to the catalog obviously we would expect that to transpire in fiscal ‘15.
So expect that to happen some time in the fiscal year I will give you better idea of that in the next conference call.
But overall its good productivity it’s a great compliment from an inventory perspective and certainly from a customer perspective and it’s a great management team.
So we think that was a combination of things so I hope the integration go even quicker.
And Bill if you think about the role of ecommerce and your model compared to what you see for the core AutoZone stores as you discussed to the last question.
Is it similar or greater would you say vis-à-vis your core business today? I would say it’s probably a little bit greater.
I think that there’s an opportunity from an online ordering perspective with the commercial customers out.
I think there’s probably a broader base from an ecommerce perspective for their product as well.
So I think that that product probably has even more opportunities online.
And then my second question relates to the pace of the buyback.
In recent years your buyback in the final quarter of the fiscal year has been the largest of the year I guess some part till the length of the quarter and there might be other reasons associated with seasonality and as such this year that was not the case.
How should we think about the way you managed the buyback in the quarter this year and will it tell us if there’s anything about the pace of buyback going forward? Yes that’s a good question.
We purchased about $1.1 billion I think we just borrowed $1.3 billion last year as we mentioned the extra week as the quarter of last year certainly helped a little bit last year so that’s some of the differential.
If you think about it we brought back about $1 billion over the past six years and so we think that that’s a cash flow number that we can maintain going forward if not better.
And we’re also consciously trying to spread it out over the year as well and not make it as chunky as it has been.
So those were some of the factors that go into that but I wouldn’t think about the fourth quarter as being light in terms of being a trend I would look at it as 1.1 versus 1.3 and the 1.3 reduced a little bit with the extra week last year.
Got it.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
And that concludes the question and answer session.
I’d like to turn it back to Mr.
Rhodes for closing comments.
Great thank you.
Before we conclude the call I’d just like to take a moment to reiterate that our business model continues to be solid.
We are excited about our growth prospects for the year.
We will not take anything for granted as we understand our customers have alternatives.
We have a solid plan to succeed this fiscal year but I want to stress that this is a marathon and not a sprint.
As we continue to focus on the basics and focus on optimizing long term share holder value we are confident AutoZone will continue to be very successful.
We thank you for participating in today’s call.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the AutoZone Conference Call.
The lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session of the conference.
Please be advised today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
This conference call will discuss AutoZone's second quarter financial results.
Bill Rhodes the company's Chairman President and CEO will be making a short presentation on the highlights of the quarter.
The conference call will end promptly at 10 a.m.
Central Time 11 a.m.
Eastern Time.
Before Mr.
Rhodes begins the company has requested that you listen to the following statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Certain statements contained in this presentation are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use words such as believe anticipate should intend plan will expect estimate project position strategy and similar expressions.
These are based on assumption and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends current conditions expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including without limitation: credit market conditions; the impact of recessionary conditions; competition; product demand; the ability to hire and retain qualified employees; consumer debt level; inflation; weather; raw material costs of our suppliers; energy prices; war and the prospect of war including terrorist activity; availability of consumer transportation; construction delays; access to available and feasible financing; and changes in laws or regulations.
Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31 2013 and these risk factors should be read carefully.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone's 2014 second quarter conference call.
With me today are Bill Giles Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer IT and ALLDATA; and Brian Campbell Vice President Treasurer Investor Relations and Tax.
Regarding the second quarter I hope you've had an opportunity to read our press release and learn about the quarter's results.
If not the press release along with slides complementing our comments today are available on our website www.autozoneinc.com.
Please click on Quarterly Earnings Conference Calls to see them.
To begin this morning I want to thank all AutoZoners across the globe for another very good quarter.
This morning we reported our 30th consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings per share growth.
That accomplishment is testament to our organization's focus and discipline around delivering consistent well customer service.
We’ll spend sometime this morning discussing our sales results and provide you some details on regional and product sales trends.
We will also provide some detail on the cadence of sales throughout the 12-week quarter.
Next we will update you on our digital integration initiatives and our international store performance.
Finally we will highlight what we've been doing to improve our business model for today and beyond.
We are very excited about the initiatives we're working on and believe our recent learning's will help to shape our company's future for years to come.
For the quarter we reported total sales increase of 7.3% while same-store sales were up 4.3%.
This overall sales performance showed noticeable improvement from our Q1 results.
I do want to point out that part of the increase in DIY was due to the calendar shift resulting from our 53rd week in fiscal 2013.
Our DIY same-store sales would have been approximately 1% lower if we were comparing to the same weeks last year.
Commercial continue to outpace the growth of our retail business.
This quarter retails showed marked acceleration from recent trends but colder weather across much of the U.S.
drove robust traffic on batteries and increase in wiper blades.
However our West Coast stores experienced less favorable weather for parts failures.
Abnormally dry conditions led to fewer for example wiper blade scales in our stores on the West Coast.
We also experienced growth in both traffic and ticket across both our retail and commercial customer segments.
Our failure related hard part categories experienced the highest growth in both retail and commercial.
Clearly the weather was a significant factor but we also believe that work that we have been doing to improve inventory availability had us very well positioned to capitalize on the increased demand.
We feel as we continue to improve our hard parts product availability this has led to increasing traffic and ticket especially in commercial where the vast majority of the business is in hard parts.
In regard to the cadence of sales trends for the quarter November December and through mid-January our sales ran quite strong above 5% in same-store sales.
However for the last month of our quarter our same-store sales slowed.
During those weeks But by late January by the time several of the U.S.
regions were experiencing their third or fourth heavy cold snap the parts that were close to failing appear to have already failed earlier in the season.
Additionally the later storms particularly across the southeast calls us and our commercial customers to close due to the severity of the storms and the poor driving conditions.
As we look at the balance of the year we believe there will be a lingering positive effect on our industry.
Two years ago the weather looked quite mild and we highlighted that as a headwind for our business for months.
Conversely after the extensive winter we have had this year we anticipate that demand will remain strong as we head into the spring and summer seasons.
While certain failure related categories were particularly strong during the second quarter other categories specifically maintenance categories that can be deferred or challenged.
We expect these deferred projects to be completed in the balance of the year.
Regarding the consumer we continue to believe our consumer remains under pressure.
However we feel 2014 has several positive items going forward.
One large headwind has now been anniversaried the payroll tax reinstatement last year.
Another is gas prices have begun to abate and we believe this can have a positive effect on our customer's ability to spend on routine maintenance.
With approximately 10 billion of gasoline consumed monthly in the U.S.
any sizeable move in price could have a material stimulus on the economy.
Currently gasoline prices are approximately $3.35 a gallon about $0.25 a gallon below this time last year.
As we are heading into what is forecasted to be a more normal spring and summer weather pattern we are optimistic on the sales front.
We continue to assume the most pronounced effects would be felt in the Midwest and northeast markets as these have been the most challenging for a couple of years.
Regarding market share the data we have available to us is showing we're gaining share on both the retail and commercial fronts.
We are especially focused on improving our chance in the application parts area where our efforts to improve our assortments would have the most impact and so far we're encouraged.
We feel the initiatives we're working on are making a difference.
For example we have enhanced our electronic catalogue to better serve our customers by further highlighting related items necessary to do the complete job.
We believe these enhancements will improve the customer experience and will compliment the knowledge of our AutoZoners.
While we are early in our efforts the feedback we're receiving from AutoZoners and customers is encouraging.
Regarding DIY ticket and traffic trends both increased for the quarter.
As I previously mentioned the traffic count was much stronger earlier in the quarter versus the last few weeks.
While we experienced traffic growth in commercial for several years it was exciting to see growth in the retail channel.
On the average ticket front retail continues to be up but at a lower rate than our historical experience.
One driver of the lower retail ticket has been the lack of commodity-based inflation.
Currently we don't see any indications of that trend changing materially in the short to midterm.
Well that is good news for our customers; it has certainly challenged our results.
On the commercial front we were pleased to see a higher average ticket to another earlier more of hard part sales.
Overall we don't have control over the macro factors that impact our business and that is why we had intensified our efforts on enhancing our offerings.
Our effects on the initiatives we have underway or intent should lead to ongoing sales growth.
We are pleased with the progress we are making on commercial business.
Our sales increased 12.2% from last year's second quarter and we opened 49 new programs to finish with 74% of our domestic stores having a commercial sales program.
This brings our year-to-date openings to 174.
We expect to open a similar number of programs this year as we did last year.
Our all other businesses increased approximately 31% over last year.
Starting this quarter we began anniversary acquisition of AutoAnything.
The all other segment of our business includes AutoAnything autozone.com and ALLDATA.
Regarding all these businesses we've introduced the idea of being more digitally integrated.
Therefore we've made this one of our four strategic growth priorities along with Retail Commercial and International.
While in an early stage we believe this can be an important and significant opportunity for us to deepen customer relationships and ultimately grow sales.
At this point the evolution of our online offering we're focusing more on data compilation and building a knowledge portal than on current sales.
Today shoppers used our websites for educating themselves what they need for their vehicles and they continue to buy the vast majority of what they need from our stores which to us makes perfect sense and is in line with our operating plans.
Our objective is to satisfy our customer's needs regardless of how they want to interact with us.
Now I'd like to update you on our initiatives.
Last quarter we discussed that we were testing a handful of initiatives that focused on increasing our ability to say yes to our customers parts needs in both retail and commercial.
We establish tests last summer focused on increasing the depth of coverage available at the store hub stores and at our distribution centers.
Product initiative at the hub stores and distribution centers also included tests around frequency of delivery to the stores that they service.
Over the last several months we have significantly increased the pace of strategic assessments and challenged ourselves to review our tests results very carefully.
The amount of time and effort going into this effort has been nothing short of extraordinary.
Our entire organization owes the subset of individuals who are leading in this effort tremendous gratitude.
On last quarter's call we highlighted that one of our test initiatives was complete and in the process of being implemented.
This initiative was the enhanced modeling for stores SKU placements where we would significantly add incremental inventory while simultaneously removing unproductive inventory.
At the end of the quarter we were complete with about 75% of this initiative.
But it is important to note that much of this additional inventory again arriving at our stores very late in the quarter and some is still in the distribution centers.
This has been a massive undertaking and this can cause considerable work at the stores and in the distribution centers as you can see our per store inventories increased significantly as a result of this initiative.
We have a high degree of confidence that these new assortments will drive meaningful profitable sales increases as we tested this new methodology several times before implementation.
To-date the sales are generally in line with our expectations.
But again much of the inventory hasn't been positioned for sale or was positioned very late in the quarter.
We've also been testing additional inventory in our hub stores.
We continue to earn opportunities to add productive inventory to all of our hubs and we expect this to continue especially if we further penetrate to highly fragmented commercial market.
Additionally we are testing a much deeper product offering in a select few hub stores and these locations are leveraging net inventory across a wide network of additional hubs and satellites.
This allows us to significantly broaden the depth of the product offering closer to the customer with many stores having same day access to the broad assortment.
In addition to testing broader SKU assortments in our hubs and our distribution centers we are also testing more frequent deliveries to both select hub and satellite stores.
All of these efforts are deigned to assess the most effective way to service our customers needs and to reduce the amount of unproductive activity we have transferring products from store-to-store.
It is still very early but what we have learned as we expected that more inventory closer to the customer increase the sales.
At this stage we have not determined the optimal solution and we expect to continue to run these tests for an extended period of time.
We continue to execute on our strategies to improve the customer shopping experience.
We expanded five net additional hub locations during the quarter to take our total remodeled hubs to 115 locations.
These remodels entail expanding the size and capacity of these locations ensuring they are in the right physical location and adding additional inventory into the market that benefits both retail and commercial.
We also opened three new hub stores finishing with 160.
Over time we do expect to open more hub locations but we believe our strategy on inventory deployment at the store level allows us to keep the number of openings at a moderate level.
Last quarter I also mentioned the new version of Z-net that was being deployed.
Over the last couple of years we have reset our expectations in regard to technology investments in an effort to leverage technology to enhance the customer experience and leverage operating efficiencies.
The enhanced Z-net is the first of those efforts to be implemented.
Finally I mentioned our goal is and remains to be growing market share in 2014 while continuing to deliver solid earnings.
We were successful with this objective in the last calendar quarter of 2013 according to the data available to us.
However we compete against great companies in our industry and they too are aggressively modifying their business.
While we are improving we clearly see where we can improve our selling proposition and we are focused on those areas.
Our organization understands the importance of balancing investments and returns and we have to invest our time and capital accordingly.
With the continued aging of the car population we are optimistic regarding trends for our industry in both DIY and DIFM.
While new car sales have been very strong these past two years who are repairing and enhancing their "new vehicle".
With gas prices declining a bit here recently on a year-over-year basis we believe miles driven can increase in 2014.
Historically lower gas prices and an improving economic outlook have led to more miles being driven.
We expect that trend to remerge.
We remain bullish on our industry sales growth opportunities on both retail and commercial front over the long-term as the vehicle population remains at an all time high and consumers continue to look for good values while maintaining their vehicles we see AutoZone's opportunity to sell to these customers only growing.
Now let me review our operating theme priorities for 2014.
Our overall operating theme this year is Creating Customers for Life and the key priorities for the year are: one Great People Providing Great Service!; two profitably growing our Commercial business; three leveraging the Internet; four leveraging technology to improve the customer experience while optimizing efficiencies; and finally improving inventory availability.
On the retail front this past quarter under the Great People Providing Great Service! theme we continue with our intense focus on improving execution.
Along with the completion of the rollout of our new Z-net software we spent a great deal of time training AutoZoners on the system enhancements.
We've tried to make the system as intuitive as possible but along with change we have to spend time teaching and discussing those changes.
We also learned from our store AutoZoners how to improve the way the information is presented on the screen.
This mutual respect for operations and technology will lead in our belief to a superior selling tool in our stores.
We also invested more payroll in our stores this past quarter.
Last year we managed expenses tightly as our sales results were below our expectations.
This year as we expected sales to improve with all of our initiatives we wanted to make sure we represented our brand well so we added additional payroll.
We should highlight another strong performance in return on invested capital as we finish Q2 at 32.3%.
While slightly below last year's Q2 ROIC excluding the acquisition of AutoAnything we would have been slightly higher than last year.
We are very pleased with this metric as it is one of the best if not the best in all of hard lines retailing.
Our primary focus has been and continues to be that we ensure every incremental dollar of capital that we deploy in this business provides an acceptable return well in excess of our cost of capital.
It is important to reinforce we will always maintain our diligence regarding capital stewardship as the capital we invest is our investor's capital.
Now let me turn the call over to Bill Giles.
Bill? Thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone.
To start this morning let me take a few moments to talk more specifically about our Retail Commercial and International results for the quarter.
For the quarter total auto part sales which included our domestic Retail and Commercial businesses our Mexico stores and our four stores in Brazil increased 6.5% over the 12 weeks.
Regarding macro trends during the quarter nationally unleaded gas prices started out at $3.29 a gallon and finished the quarter at $3.38 a gallon.
Last year gas prices increased $0.18 per gallon during the quarter starting at $3.43 and ending at $3.61 a gallon.
We continue to believe gas prices have a real impact on our customers' abilities to maintain their vehicles and we continue to monitor prices closely in the future.
We also recognized that the impact of miles driven on cars over 10-years-old the current average is much different than our newer cars in terms of wear and tear.
Miles driven data reported by the Department of Transportation are available only through December.
While October was up 2.3% while November was down 0.2% December was up 1.1%.
The other statistic we highlight is the number of 7-year-old and older vehicles on the road which continues to trend in our industry's favor.
Another key macro headwind last year was the favorable tax reinstitution while we do not expect to benefit this year we simply are anniversarying a negative event from last year it is hard to gauge what the benefit this will have on our traffic but it won't be an additional pressure point like it was last year.
For the trailing four quarters total sales per auto part store was $1 754 000.
This statistic continues to set the pace for the rest of the industry.
For the quarter total Commercial sales increased 12.2%.
Commercial represented 16.3% of our total company sales and grew $35 million over the last year's second quarter.
Last year's commercial sales mix percent was 15.6%.
We believe there are ample opportunities for us to continue to improve many facets of our operations and offerings and therefore we are optimistic about the future of this business.
Year-to-date we opened 174 new programs versus 93 programs up in last fiscal year.
We now have our commercial program in 3 595 stores supported by 160 hub stores.
Approximately 1 080 of our programs are 3-years-old or younger.
With only 74% of our domestic stores having the commercial program and our average revenue per program below several of our competitors we believe there is further opportunity for additional program growth in addition to improved productivity opportunities in current programs.
The tests on inventory that we've conducted provide us with one of the pieces of information on how to close the gap of competitors that are more productive and commercial than us today on a per outlet basis.
We understand where share opportunities exist and we remain focused on closing that gap.
We believe we're on the right track when it comes to our ability to climb the call list to becoming our customers' first call.
In summary we remain committed to our long-term growth strategy.
We have accelerated the growth of our commercial programs having opened over a thousand programs in the past 36 months.
30% of the programs are 3-years-old or younger.
And we believe we are well positioned to grow this business and capture market share.
Our Mexico stores continued to perform well.
We opened four new stores during the second quarter.
We currently have 367 stores in Mexico.
Our returns and profit growth continue to be in line with our expectations.
Regarding Brazil we opened no new stores in the quarter and have four stores open as of the end of the quarter.
Our plans remain to open in total about 10 stores then pause our development as we refine our offerings and prove that our concept works for our customers and it's financially viable.
At that point we will talk more on our long-term growth plans.
Recapping this past quarter's performance for the company in total our sales were $1 099 000 000 an increase of 7.3% from last year's second quarter.
Domestic same-stores sales were sales for stores opened more than one year were up 4.3% for the quarter.
As Bill has mentioned earlier our last four week sales results were below the run rate of the first eight weeks.
We attribute much of this decline to even harsher than expected winter weather in certain parts of the country keeping customers at home indoors along with an excessive amount of precipitation challenging customers to complete vehicle projects outdoors.
Additionally we believe many of the failure parts that were subject to failure during extreme temperatures had already failed earlier in the season.
Moving onto gross profit the gross margin for the quarter was 52.1% of sales up 25 basis points versus last year's second quarter.
The improvement in gross margin was attributable to higher merchandise margins lower shrink expense offset primarily by the inclusion of the recent acquisition of AutoAnything.
In regards to inflation we continue to see modest decreases in costs year-over-year.
This was different than in past years.
At this point our assumption is we'll experience subdued producer pricing for the foreseeable future and therefore we feel costs will be predictable and manageable.
We will remain cognizant in the future developments regarding inflation and we'll make the appropriate adjustments should they arise.
Looking forward we continue to believe there remains opportunity for gross margin expansion within both the retail and commercial businesses.
However we do not manage to a target gross margin percentage as the growth of our commercial business has been steady headwind on our overall gross margin rate for a few years we have not bothered to call out the headwind quarterly as an integrated part of our business model.
Additionally AutoAnything has been a slight drag on our gross margins as this business model operates at a lower gross margin rate.
As we anniversaried our acquisition of AutoAnything during Q2 our margin comparisons will be comparable going forward.
Our primary focus remains growing absolute gross profit dollars.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 35.2% of sale higher by 42 basis points from last year's second quarter.
The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of sales was primarily due to the timing of advertising expenditures in Q2 from Q1.
As I had mentioned a few moments ago our investments were favorable did leverage our domestic -- did deleverage our domestic store operating expenses as a percentage of sales.
Advertising however was the larger single component to the increase.
While expenses are higher than last year they were budgeted and were in-line with our expectation.
We continue to believe we are well-positioned to manage our cost structure and response to our sales environment.
EBIT for the quarter was $337 million up 6.2% over the last year's second quarter.
Our EBIT margin was 16.9%.
This represented a decrease of 17 basis points versus the previous year's second quarter.
Interest expense for the quarter was $39.5 million compared with $41.3 million in Q2 a year ago.
Debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $4.311 billion approximately $310 million more than last year's Q2 balance of $3.998 billion.
Our adjusted debt level metric finished the quarter at 2.5x EBITDAR.
While in any given quarter we may increase or decrease our leverage metric based on management's opinion regarding debt and equity market condition we remain committed to both our investment grade rating and our capital allocation strategy.
Our share repurchases are an important element of that strategy.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 35.3% lower than the last year's second quarter of 36.2%.
This quarter benefited from certain discrete tax items.
Net income for the quarter was $193 million was up 9.4% versus the prior year's second quarter.
Our diluted share count of $34.3 million was down 7.2% from last year's second quarter.
The combination of these factors grows earnings per share for the quarter to $5.63 million up 17.8% over the prior year's second quarter.
Related to the cash flow statement for the second fiscal quarter we generated $151 million of operating cash flow.
Net fixed assets were up 6.5% versus last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $77 million and reflected the additional expenditures required both from 32 new stores this quarter capital expenditures on existing stores hub store remodel; work on development of new stores for upcoming quarters and information technology investment.
Additionally we purchase the rights to certain customer relationships in connection with our ALLDATA business.
These investments were approximately $11 million this year with an additional $20 million to be paid over the next two years.
For all of fiscal 2013 our CapEx was approximately $415 million.
With the new stores open we finished this quarter with 4 871 stores in 49 states the District to Columbia and Puerto Rico 367 stores in Mexico and 4 in Brazil for a total store count of 5 242.
Depreciation totaled $58.4 million for the quarter versus last year's second quarter expense of $52.3 million.
With our excess cash flow we repurchased $200 million of AutoZone stock in the second quarter.
At quarter end we had $727 million remaining under our share buyback authorization.
Our leverage metric was 2.5x this past quarter.
Again I want to stress we managed the appropriate credit ratings and not any one metric.
The metric we report is meant as a guide only as each trading firm has its own criteria.
We continue to view our share repurchase program with an attractive capital deployment strategy.
Accounts payable as a percent of gross inventory finished the quarter at 113%.
Next I'd like to update you on our inventory level one a per store basis.
We reported an inventory balance of $3.1 billion up 12% versus the Q2 ending balance last year.
Increased inventory reflects new store growth along with additional investments in coverage for select categories.
Inventory per store was up 8.3% at $589 000 per store reflecting our continued investment in hard parts coverage.
Finally as Bill previously mentioned our continued disciplined capital management approach resulted in return on invested capital for the trailing four quarters of 32.3%.
We have and will continue to make investments that we believe will generate returns but significantly exceed our cost of capital.
Now I'll turn it back to Bill Rhodes.
Thanks Bill.
We are pleased to report our 30th consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings per share growth.
Our company continues to be successful due to our long term focus.
That focus on exceptional customer service is part of the AutoZone DNA.
We focus on executing at a very high level consistently which we believe can be a competitive advantage.
To execute at a high level we have to consistently adhere to living the pledge.
We cannot and will not take our eye off of the execution.
Success will be achieved with a strong attention to detail.
But we also have to evolve and change to adapt to our ever evolving industry.
The initiatives we are working around inventory assortment hub stores commercial growth Mexico ALLDATA e-commerce and Brazil are all very exciting to us.
We feel these efforts will lead to increasing sales for 2014 and beyond.
Our industry sales according to the NPD data made available to us accelerated this past quarter.
We continued to experience share gains on both the retail and commercial fronts.
While this is exciting we cannot be complacent.
We are just starting to implement our major initiatives and the best we believe is ahead of us.
Our long-term models to go new source new store square footage and a low-single-digit growth rate and we expect to continue growing our commercial business at an accelerated rate.
As we continue to execute on our financial model we look to routinely grow EBIT dollars in the mid single digit range or better in times of strength and we leverage our very strong and predictable cash flow to repurchase shares enhancing our earnings per share within to double digits.
We build the track we are on will allow us to continue winning from a long run.
We believe our study consistent strategy is right.
It is the attention to details and consistent executions that will matter over time.
Our belief that solid consistent strategy combined with superior execution is a formula for success.
We are investing in the key additions that we will drive our long term performance.
In the end delivering strong EPS growth and ROIC each and every quarter is how we measure our sales.
We remain committed to deliberate on our strategic and financial objectives.
Now I would like to open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question today is from Alan Rifkin with Barclays.
Couple of questions if I may first one to Bill Rhodes.
Bill you spoke about the lingering positive effect from weather on hard parts.
And while it's easy to probably determine what the immediate effect is on battery you may be provide a little bit more color on how you think that lingering effort is going to be and what proportion of the hard parts are typically accepted longer term from adverse weather? Yes Alan and I think the best proxy that we have in recent history was two years ago when we had a very mild winter of 2011-2012.
If you recall in April and really on through October of that year we continue to call the lingering impact in our business and it was really in the maintenance category places like brakes and chassis that didn't get replaced at the same rates that they had in previous years.
Now we attribute a lot of that to the lack of snow and ice lack of snow piles lack of potholes in the roads.
And clearly from an out of the winter that we just had our expectation is that those categories should be robust.
Also those categories specifically that I talked about brakes and chassis and the line they were challenged Q2.
We had great performance in batteries and wipers and antifreeze but a lot of categories where the customer could defer them they did the defer them and we expect those deferrals to come back.
So Bill what you say is the positive effect this year from the poor weather equal to the core effect we had on revenues a couple of years ago from the unseasonably warm weather that we had? I see your guess is as good as mine on that one Alan.
I'm just -- I'm bullish about it but we're going to see how it plays out.
Thank you second question may be for Bill Giles.
Hey Bill with less than 30% of the hub stores under three years old what is the ramp on the revenue growth that newly opened hub stores look like? Was most under maturity captured post three years? You can maybe provide a little bit more color on that I'd appreciate it.
Yes actually unlike a traditional retail new store a lot of it is captured really in the first two to three years.
So there is a continued ramp in the maturating post that but there is a much more accelerated ramp in the first frankly a couple of years and sometimes even shorter than that depending on the market that we get into.
And then the other thing with an addition to having a increasingly maturation process of the new commercial programs that's just all the initiatives what we are doing.
So we are trying to make every program better every single day and a lot of things that Bill talked about on the inventory availability we think it will help in that process.
One last question if I may to Bill Rhodes.
Obviously with one of your major competitors completing the acquisition at Carquest recently there were certainly -- it was well documented at Carquest that was on the auction block for quite some time.
Are you at liberty to maybe elaborate on what it was about the Carquest that did not interest you in moving forward more aggressively? That's a tough question Alan.
I think I'd rather keep our deliberations to ourselves.
I think those could have competitive implications over the long-term and one other industry consolidation.
All right.
So you never try that.
I appreciate the question.
I understand it.
I just don't think it will be appropriate for us to comment on it.
Thank you.
The next question is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Bill Rhodes a question on the inventories entering the next quarter 8% higher than a year ago.
Is this all additional SKUs or were you finding you didn't have enough depth in the existing SKUs to fulfill commercial ordering? So for example may be your systems shows your X stock was two pieces of a certain SKU but I've got a commercial customer asking for four pieces and therefore you were having to say no.
Yes.
What you've seen to-date is the vast majority of it has been incremental coverage not incremental quantities.
We are as I mentioned we are testing a lot of different things and then in some respects some of those tests are increasing or decreasing the quantities of the parts that we have based upon the delivery frequency of that store.
But what you've seen to-date the vast majority of it has been incremental coverage.
I did want to reiterate it that a lot of it came in right at the end of the quarter.
You talked about that your management is doing a lot of analytical work on the payback on the inventory investment.
Could you help us understand the implications for our GM ROI? I'm assuming it's probably dilutive but if you could tell us what you are seeing in your tests? Yes certainly as we go farther down the curve -- farther down the bell curve it is clearly GM ROI dilutive to where we are today.
Let's remember we're 32.3% ROIC.
But a lot of decisions opening a new store a lot of times is dilutive to ROIC.
We're very comfortable that it's going to provide us with reasonable returns well in ahead of our cost of capital.
And then just the last question and I know we have talked about this in the past but when you look at your tests improving your delivery capabilities in commercial what do you think are the advantages and what are the disadvantages relative to competitors to build large distribution centers and then could achieve a lot of the same benefits? Well obviously the disadvantages of significantly changed or significantly with broader distribution network are so costly it's quite costly.
And so we're looking at several different things and we've made no decisions at this point in time on the other initiatives.
We've rolled out our improved algorithms for store replacement.
But we've not made any decisions about distribution centers hub stores or the like.
We're in the midst of testing all those things.
But we're encouraged -- we're encouraged by all the different things we're testing.
But what we now have to move is to figure out is which one is the optimal approach.
Which one provides the best return at the lowest cost? And I think that's going to take us a couple two or three more quarters to figure that out.
Thank you.
The next question is from Michael Baker with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks.
So a couple of questions on the commercial.
I just wanted to go back.
You said Bill Giles that stores that are two or three years old in the commercial business ramp up quite well in terms of the sales and in fact even faster than the retail business.
So I guess I don't fully understand why you wouldn't be seeing greater sales on the commercial business if you have so many immature store so many stores in that 1% to 2% to 3% of three-year-old cohorts and those would be driving higher sales growth? They do and then but at the same time we still have keep in mind 30% of the commercial programs that we have opened today are all less than three-years-old.
So they're continuing to ramp and that's driving down a little bit of our productivity when you look at it on an average basis.
And the other thing is obviously we're at 74% penetration.
And as we continue to ratchet that up will be some level of cannibalization not significant but it will be a little bit until we just continue to penetrate the market overall.
So I guess that explains why the sales per store would be lower.
But still I would think the growth rate would be higher and so perhaps and here's my second question is it a function of increased competition in the commercial business on the West Coast O'Reilly is maturing more and more every year with their CSK stores and then in the Northeast you did the VIP acquisition? So is it possible that you're just seeing more competition in the commercial business? I wouldn't say more because obviously those are replacements of existing competition.
Better perhaps.
Yes I would say they're slightly better capitalized.
But what we've got a 3% market share or less.
We continue to believe there is a lot of Greenfield opportunities and we got to continue to drive our productivity.
Also I think the inventory availability and not to hang our hats just on that we've got a lot of initiatives going on.
But I think more inventory in the market place is going to be beneficial for the Commercial programs both DIY and Commercial but specifically Commercial as well.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) The next question is from Greg Melich with ISI Group.
My question is really about the inventory addition and its impact on ticket and what it does to the AP ratio going forward.
Specifically did you -- is it too early or did the increased SKUs help ticket in either do it for me or DIY in the quarter? That's a great question.
I think it's a little too early for us to see whether or not both that inventory and as Bill said still -- some of it's still on the pipeline has an impact on ticket.
We would expect it to drive it a little bit overall as we continue to be able to say yes to more profits more demand but in the future.
So might the inventory ratio perspective I think over time that that will likely to put a little bit of pressure on AP to inventory.
But I suspect that will be over a couple of year kind of a timeframe I don't see that in the immediate future necessarily.
But it also points to the fact that we've got opportunities and try to reduce some of the unproductive inventory that we have in the chain as we continue to replace this with other additional SKUs and that we're grow inventory grow SKUs and will put a little bit of pressure on inventory churn and put a little bit of pressure on AP to inventory ratio and I suspect that that will be over a couple of years and not something in the immediate future.
And you mentioned 75% of the initiative is done in terms of the enhanced SKU placements.
If you look at all the other things that you listed that are still on test could you help us understand the magnitude if you decide to go through with those would it be a lift of inventory similar to what we have seen so far per store? Yes Greg this is Bill Rhodes.
Number one one of the initiatives that we're working on or competing against each other where you have a delivery methodology frequency change out of the distribution centers but at the same time we also have a mega hub notion that's doing the same kind of work.
So we don't really -- it's hard to say what's going to happen.
When I look at it I don't think there would be nearly significant increase in inventory as a result of these initiatives because you would be talking about deploying inventory in fewer number locations either hubs or distribution centers.
This is not talking additional inventories in the stores and if you increase the frequency of delivery you're also going to bring the quantities of inventory in the stores down.
That could actually be a benefit to inventory but it would require capital and operating expenses to get that benefit.
Thank you.
The next question is from John Lawrence with Stephens &amp;Company.
Bill would you comment a little bit the follow-up on Alan's question a little bit about the frequency change as far as the deliveries.
I mean I know some of those hub stores have gone may be once or twice or maybe even three times a day to some of these stores.
Could you talk a little bit more about that and how does this the bay or the garage know that you have this additional inventory.
That's a great question on how the garage knows that the way that they know is our incredibly talented sales force is out anytime you give a sales person or an operator additional inventory they are going to tell everybody and so that's a big part of our sales message right now.
As far as the frequency of deliveries in the standard hub stores we really haven't changed those in the last two or three years.
We did increase them pretty significantly in '09 '10 timeframe but now we are testing something and this is again just in test and that's kind of a mega hub notion where it's a hub serving additional hubs so I think that one hub that might be servicing six or seven other hubs.
And if they are in the same major metropolitan areas it might be serving that additional hub multiple times a day and then for the long faraway hubs it's only servicing them once a day.
And just to follow that in periods when these bays and garages are very busy.
Does that give the opportunity to that third and fourth player in the market to really move up on that call list because of the increased demand? I think increased demand but more importantly increased availability.
When the shop finds you have something that somebody else doesn't that gives you real opportunity and move up that list.
Particularly you are doing a great job of service.
Thank you.
The next question is from Aram Rubinson with Wolfe Research.
One question and a follow-up.
The first one is about volatility.
Some of the metrics that we see are kind of steady as ever EPS growth being in the 15% to 17% range cash flow you mentioned very predictable and steady.
SG&amp;A a little bit more volatile and sales little bit more than historical but can you talk to us about the underlying patterns of customer behavior that you're seeing inter-quarter inter-week to understand kind of what it is that the customer is kind of preferring and just wondering if you can give us a historical perspective on volatility? The second quarter for us is always an incredibly volatile of time it's the most volatile period of time that we have.
Number one you have the holidays in there.
Number two weather patterns can be extremely different one week to the next.
Last weekend it was 70 degrees here in Memphis today the kids Shelby County's schools are out because it's ice and snow.
So those kind of changes will really change the volatility -- the customer traffic patterns.
The other thing that's been different for us and we talked about is our average ticket our average ticket for about the last nine months has been it's still growing but it's been more muted growth and the big part of that is due to the lack of commodity-based inflation we had significant commodity-based inflation for a couple of years and that slowed down a little bit.
We think that will continue for a reasonable period going forward we don't see a change.
Just a follow-up.
On your comment earlier Bill Rhodes about inventory and kind of willing to put inventory in so long it's kind of in excess of your cost of capital.
How do you philosophically think about inventory when your cost of capital is effectively zero and what are guard rails telling us when it's going to hit that diminishing return? We know everything to a 15% after tax IRR.
So regardless of what happens to our cost of capital we're going to hold every investment through a 15% IRR with the exception of a few real estate decisions that we make in strategic markets where we have to hold them because we hold them to at least 12%.
How does payables factor into that because that effectively makes the cost of adding inventory free in that regard? Yes we charge the initiative with payable with the inventory and don't give it the payables benefit although we let some of the inventory come back at the end of the IRR calculation period.
That's real helpful.
Thanks.
The burden of those costs are real and just because we're able to get the AP coverage on doesn't mean that we don't need to look at that very closely and make sure we are making wise business decisions.
Thank you.
The next question is from Bret Jordan with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
A couple of questions another question around the inventory.
I guess if you look at sort of the puts and takes the scale of purchasing the incremental inventory versus the possibly lower margin of growing the Commercial business.
In the gross margin improvement year-over-year could you sort of give us the impact of both sides of that? I would say that the increase in the inventory during the quarter had some additional supply chain cost et cetera but there wasn't a benefit per se from the additional purchasing of the inventory that would necessarily bolster gross margin at least at this stage it wouldn't happen till the inventory is sold necessarily.
So that answers it Bret.
And then I guess as you talked about market share could you give us any color regionally were there markets that you gained relatively more share in? Yes.
The information that we get today about market share is not at the same level of granularity on a regional basis we only get regional information on non-application products.
So I don't really think it's wise for us to get into those discussions.
Thank you.
The next question is from Michael Lasser with UBS.
Now that you've had time to see the results of both the inventory and the labor investments do you think these initiatives will give to you -- will allow you to fully close the commercial productivity gap with your peers? And is that the goal here? Or do you think that if you do close the productivity gap it will be return dilutive you don't necessarily want to get there? Number one we want to focus on us not our competition.
We believe we have tremendous opportunities for increased business in the Commercial business over time.
We don't think it's going to come one week or one quarter or one year it's going to take us improving our model continuing to work with our sales force continuing to deepen our relationship with our customers.
I believe that the initiatives that we're working on particularly the inventory availability initiatives will have a big benefit to us going forward.
But it's not going to be measured in quarters it's going to be measured in years.
As for the inventory that we added again I will reiterate that we added right at the end of the quarter so we didn’t see much of it.
As far as the payroll addition and I appreciate you calling that out.
We really -- last year the second quarter was really tight and our sales trends weren't very exciting.
And so we very aggressively managed our payroll and in hindsight we felt like we too aggressively managed it.
So we didn't -- we weren't that aggressive this time.
Now that was a one quarter event.
That was not something that we did in Q3 and Q4.
It was really a Q2 event that we've now annualized.
Then as my follow-up question I think some of your comments around the cadence of the comp during the quarter have raised some questions about sustainability of the recent industry performance.
Could you parse may be on a regional perspective did you see the same type of slowdown on the West or the less weather affected areas? And have you seen that continue into the current quarter or maybe there's been less adverse weather? Yes.
We kind of have a standing practice not to talk about the current quarter but I appreciate you bringing that up.
So let me add a little bit more specifics to it.
In the last month that we talked about there were three weeks.
The first three weeks of that month where it was snow and ice across much of the Eastern United States including the South.
Those three weeks we had significant pressure on our sales.
The final week of the quarter we had much improved weather and our business was materially better.
That also coincided with when the tax refunds started flowing in the marketplace.
We had the combinations of improved weather and tax refunds and we saw a material improvement in our business.
Thank you.
The next question is from Seth Basham with Wedbush.
I think you just helped us understand the calendar shift a bit with that last week being so strong.
Right.
But going forward should we expect any changes with calendar shifts in the balance of the year? We all wait it cost us 70 bps in the first quarter it cost us about 1% here.
I think it should be -- it's certainly going to be neutral for the balance of the year.
There is going to be a slight shift between Q3 and Q4? It's going to depend just like you picked up on it wasn't going to be a big event until we had a really strong last week and that infotainment event.
I know what the first week of this quarter is going to be but I don't know what the last week is going to be.
So I think it's anybody's guess.
And just picking apart the SG&amp;A deleverage in the quarter a bit can you give us the puts and takes year-over-year as it relates to some of the line items around payroll and advertising et cetera and were there any incremental investments for your initiatives? I would say that there wasn't a lot of incremental investments on the initiatives.
There were some additional costs.
I think payroll deleveraged probably less than 10 basis points or so but to Bill's point earlier that was really a function of us kind of keeping more consistent with our payroll model where last year we probably got off of that a little bit and we really made some cuts that in retrospect we didn't want to repeat as we went through Q2.
In Q1 we mentioned that there was going to be some timing related to advertising where we pushed some advertising from Q2 or Q1 into Q2 and that was worth probably a little over 20 basis points.
So that's kind of the majority of that 42 basis points.
Thank you.
The next question is from Brian Nagel with Oppenheimer.
I actually have just a couple really quick questions.
One we've already discussed weather a lot but is there a way to specifically look -- you take the comp you hedge in the fiscal second quarter how much of that was directly attributable to the weather? Then the second question I think to some extent you discussed it in your prepared comments but the buyback looking at my model here you obviously continue to buy back stock but it would seem like a slightly or a modestly slower pace than it had been in prior quarters.
Any reasons we should be thinking something into that? Thanks.
All right.
I'll take the first and I'll give Bill Giles the second one.
It's really difficult to quantify the impact of the weather.
And again it has puts and calls so we can see that our batteries and starters and alternators businesses are up pretty significantly.
Conversely brakes and chassis and the like are down.
I think it did have a benefit; I would characterize it in the 1% to 2% range.
But I also think that we've got this pent-up demand which should help us going forward.
We love the extremes.
But if you don’t get the extreme weather and those batteries don't fail than it's going to be the next extreme when they do fail.
So we got that business and now hopefully we'll get the deferral of the maintenance business as we look forward.
I would just say.
I have nothing to really read on the stock repurchases.
We'll try to be relatively consistent year-over-year quarter-over-quarter so I wouldn't read too much into that.
Thank you.
The next question is from Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
You mentioned the tight payroll couple of times.
You were talking about the year-over-year SG&amp;A I'm curious did that lead to changes in employee turnover at all and in addition to that with some of the industry consolidation we've seen is employee turnover a greater concern may be than what's been in the past? No.
We haven't seen any material change in employee turnover.
We did see a material reduction when the onset of the recession and we've seen it kick up 1% or 2% over certain quarters but it has nothing material.
As far as the industry dynamics I think number one it's far too early to see what any ramifications of those changes are.
But we are always looking for great people that love the AutoZone culture and if they want to come join a great team we'd love to have them.
And when do you think that might play out you said it's still too early.
Just given your experience in the industry and obviously with acquisitions themselves like when would we start to see when people are kind of placing their longer-term debt is it after three months is it six months is it a year just kind of given your experience wondering what your thought process is.
It all depends on what the strategy is and what the level of execution on that strategy is.
It can happen very quickly.
If there is a massive determination on what the integration plans are or it can take a year.
It's all going to depend on the implementation pace.
Thank you.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the call back over the speakers for any closing comments.
Before we conclude the call I'd just like to take a moment to reiterate what separates us from the other players in our industry; our culture is very unique.
Being part of the AutoZone family and striving to improve its very unique across the entire retail landscape it's the passion to continue to build our culture that will carry us to new heights.
We are currently working on the variety of exciting new initiatives and tests that we believe will enhance our performance over time.
Ultimately our AutoZoners have delivered year in and year out and I'm highly confident that with them leading the charge our future is incredibly bright.
Thank you for participating in today's call.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the AutoZone Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session of the conference.
Please be advised today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
This conference call will discuss AutoZone's first quarter financial results.
Bill Rhodes the Company's Chairman President and CEO will be making a short presentation on the highlights of the quarter.
The conference call will end promptly at 10:00 am Central time 11:00 am Eastern time.
Before Mr.
Rhodes begins the company has requested that you listen to the following statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Certain statements contained in this presentation are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use words such as believe anticipate should intend plan will expect estimate project positioned strategy and similar expressions.
These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends current conditions expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including without limitation credit market conditions; the impact of recessionary conditions; competition; product demand; the ability to hire and retain qualified employees; consumer debt levels; inflation; weather; raw material costs of our suppliers; energy prices; war and the prospect of war including terrorist activity; availability of consumer transportation; construction delays; access to available and feasible financing; and changes in laws or regulations.
Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 30 2014 and these Risk Factors should be read carefully Mr.
Rhodes you may now begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone’s 2015 First Quarter Conference Call.
With me today are Bill Giles Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer IT and ALLDATA and Brian Campbell Vice President Treasurer Investor Relations and Tax.
Regarding the first quarter I hope you’ve had an opportunity to read our press release and learn about the quarter’s results.
If not the press release along with slides complementing our comments today is available on our website www.autozoneinc.com.
Please click on Quarterly Earnings Conference Calls to see them.
To begin this morning I want to thank all AutoZoners across the globe for another solid quarter and a very good start to the new fiscal year.
We remained focused this past quarter on several key initiatives and on growing our business on a variety of fronts.
I thought I'd begin this morning recapping the various aspects of our business as it has become more complex in recent years.
We have diversified our portfolio with the emphasis on building additional legs of growth.
First we have our retail domestic business which generates approximately 70% of our revenue.
This business performed quite well on Q1 and we continue to see opportunities for future growth in store count and same-store sales.
Secondly we have our commercial domestic business which has been growing sales by double digits for five years and continues to be a tremendous growth opportunity.
We also have international retail and commercial businesses in Mexico and Brazil.
We've been doing business in Mexico since late 1998 and our model has proven to work quite well.
In Brazil we are still in test phase but our sales had continued to grow nicely.
We also have an growing internet business supported by both AutoZone.com and AutoAnything and we have our all data business which is the leading diagnostic and repair business in the United States.
We have expanded that business to both Canada and Europe in recent years.
And finally we recently acquired IMC which focuses on the import parts business and provides us with a new growth opportunity in new avenues to invite AutoZone customers who often expanded product assortment.
This past quarter our U.S.
retail business expanded with the opening of 22 new stores.
We also opened 61 net new commercial programs our commercial business continue to gain traction growing sales 13% for the quarter.
We now have commercial programs in 78% of our domestic stores having opened 816 new programs in just the past two years and we have opened four new stores in Mexico during the quarter.
In Brazil we continue to operate five stores and expect to open a couple of new ones over the next few months.
We currently have approximately 8% of our total stores outside of the United States.
We believe we have growth opportunity in the U.S.
and outside the U.S for many years to come.
In the first quarter our sales accelerated on a same store basis compared to last quarter.
We reported a same stores sales increase of 4.5% up from 2.1% in Q4 of last year.
We were pleased to see we gained traction in sales categories where we’ve added merchandize and our commercial business benefited from both the inventory additions and a diligent focus on growing sales in our older programs with particular emphasis on mature customers.
We were pleased with our sales performance throughout the quarter but our DIY business was particularly strong in the last two weeks when much of the country experienced the first significant cold weather spell.
Our results were also generally consistent across all regions of the countries while the weather experience at the end of the quarter accelerated our growth even further our sales throughout the quarter were noticeably improved from Q4 in virtually every week.
Our beliefs is at the reduce gas prices are giving our customers additional disposable income and helping drive our sales.
Additionally and more importantly we believe the work we’ve been doing over the last year of inventory availability is also contributing to improve sales performance.
Over the last year we have implemented our new algorithms for inventory assortments and those products have been in our stores now for over 6 months.
These are generally slower moving products but as our customers experience the improved debt of our inventory these products are continuing to gaining traction.
Overall we were quite pleased with our sales performance in Q1.
Our inventory per store increased over our Q4 2014 levels the primary driver of this increase was the inventory added through the acquisition of IMC.
The IMC stores carry on average eight to ten times the inventory per location are basic AutoZone stores do.
While we are more aggressive with our inventory additions this past year we feel future investments will be more targeted and refined.
Additionally when we implemented our new assortment methodology last year we made a decision to only execute half of the deletes of underproductive merchandize in order to mitigate the potential risk of such a significant change.
We are in the process of executing the additional deletions over the next few quarters.
Overall we believe our growth in inventory per store will continue but at a low modest pace than last year.
We will continue to assess and analyze our changes and we will continue to refine our methodologies overtime.
But the majority of this initiative will be completed once the additional deletions are removed.
Secondly as we mentioned during the last several quarterly calls we have been testing different delivery frequencies from our distribution centers.
Our ongoing tests have shown us that increased delivery frequency increases sales and improves inventory productivity while reducing safety stock.
The important takeaway here is we continue to expand these tests and have added more stores to these test.
As we’ve been testing for about a year our results to date have been encouraging and we plan to further expand the test in Q3.
Once we have confirmed our bindings we will develop a long term plan and explain our strategy and its ramifications to you.
We would expect to do this in the next couple of quarters.
Ultimately assuming our findings are confirmed we would expect to increase the delivery frequency to most of our stores and we would expect to add two to three additional distribution centers to do this cost effectively and on a timely basis.
Additionally we’ve been testing what we call mega hubs mega hubs have substantially increased product assortment and they leverage those increased product assortments across other hub network providing stores across large geography access to this expanded assortment.
We have been testing two mega hubs for about a year.
Both of them have been performing well and we will be opening three additional mega hubs over the course of this fiscal year.
This too is still in test phase but we are pleased with the performance to date.
All of our inventory availability initiatives are designed to significantly increase our ability to meet our customer’s needs.
In this business the inventory availability is a must and we believe once this work is completed we will materially improve our ability to fulfill our customers request.
As our commercial business has grown our need for expanded assortments has grown even more.
Again we are continuing to test and we are expanding our test to validate our findings to date.
We will keep you abreast with these developments.
This has been important and difficult work and I would like to thank everyone in the organization who has been involved with this initiative for their excellent work today.
Last quarter we held our national sales meeting here in Memphis.
This year's operating plan theme wow every customer everywhere was very well received.
The customers are simply focused on everything we do or like we say at AutoZone AutoZoners always put customers first.
We've always been focused on service but this annual operating theme adds intensity and renewed focus.
We've made significant systems investments and enhancements this past year in order to capture more data about our customer shopping patterns across all of our platforms.
<br>We understand we have to be able to toggle between the store the shop the phone and online experience in order to meet our customer’s needs.
At the national sales meeting my favorite event every year is our recognition luncheon hosting our award winning store managers or as we call them our President's Club it's an opportunity for our officers to meet and answer questions from our best and brightest store AutoZoners.
This year was certainly no exception.
These store award winners deserve our gratitude for their efforts each and every day.
Now I will take a moment to discuss our recently completed acquisition of Interamerican Motor Corporation doing business in the marketplace as IMC.
They are the second largest distributor of OE quality import replacement parts in the United States.
They specialize in parts coverage for European and Asian vehicles.
While considerably smaller than the number one participant in the industry IMC with 17 branches today offers a terrific growth opportunity for us.
Not just because of the parts coverage but also because of a very strong management team.
They are an exceptional team.
We closed on the acquisition in September and we have been fast at work on getting our integration plan in place.
While it's very premature I will mention our plans include opening more IMC branches in incorporating their parts catalog into our AutoZone's Z-Net parts catalog.
We will continue go-to-market as IMC and expect to open a handful of new IMC branches over the next 12 months.
We also expect to have their catalog available in our stores by early spring 2015.
I do want to point out; there was very little customer overlap with our commercial customer base.
Now let me stress the IMC brand is very important to us and we will grow that brand and its presence in the future in the many more markets than what it is in today.
IMC has been in a growth mode recently and has built an infrastructure to support a substantially larger footprint.
Therefore it currently doesn't enjoy the operating margins that we experienced so it will lower our overall EBIT margins by approximately 40 basis points on an annual basis.
We are very excited to have IMC as part of our organization and very optimistic about our future together.
Now let's turn to our first quarter results.
Our sales increased 8% and our domestic same-store sales were up 4.5%.
As mentioned previously our sales improved significantly from Q4 and each month both retail and commercial experienced positive same-store sales growth.
That consistency was across all regions of the country.
We believe we benefitted from both macro tailwinds our work on inventory availability and solid execution.
While our value related and maintenance merchandise categories performed well.
We were especially happy to see the growth in our maintenance category.
Regarding traffic versus tickets in DIY business traffic was negative while ticket was positive.
While only slightly negative traffic improved in the quarter well along and was nicely positive at the end.
Our average ticket improved significantly and has returned to more normalized levels after about a year of subdued growth.
The hard parts of this since we've added to our stores have held ticket growth.
Over the last two decades our traffic count has been challenged.
The primary driver of this challenge is the improvements in the product quality which has led to fewer failures or longer maintenance intervals but those improvements have come from technological advancements and those enhancements have significantly increased the price of the products we sale.
We have been managing through these phenomena as mentioned for over two decades and expect to continue to do so quite well.
We are having 61 new commercial programs in the quarter versus 125 programs in the comparable period last year.
We have a commercial program in 78% of our domestic store base.
Our commercial sales excluding items were up 13% this quarter.
Lastly I always like to recognize how effective our team delivers consistent earning in good sales environment and not so good.
And that practice has allowed us to deliver an impressive 33 consecutive quarters of double-digit EPS growth.
That consistency allows us to be both shareholder friendly with solid earnings growth and bondholder friendly through a targeted investment grade rating and strong cash flow.
We continue to manage this business for both short term and long term optimum performance.
As part of our strategy to increasing inventory levels in local markets closer to our customers this past quarter we opened five additional hub locations.
Overtime we do expect to open more hub locations and we believe our strategy on inventory deployment at the store level allows us to keep the number of openings at a moderate level.
Regarding Mexico we opened four stores this quarter.
Sales in our other businesses for the quarter were up 6.4% over the last year’s first quarter.
As a reminder our all data in e-commerce which includes autozone.com and autoanything make the segment of sales.
Regarding online sales opportunities there continued to be great opportunities for growth on both business-to-business and to individual customers who are beginning to see.
While these businesses are small for us we expect them to grow at a faster rate in our brick and mortar business for the foreseeable future.
With the continued ageing of the car population we continue to be optimistic regarding trends for our industry in both the DIY and DIFM.
While new car sales have been very strong these past two years we have seen those traded in vehicles to be resold to new owners who are repairing or enhancing their new vehicles.
With gas prices on average down materially year-over-year for the first quarter we are beginning to see miles driven increase.
Decline in prices at the pump have benefited our customers especially those most financially strapped.
The lower end consumer benefits the most from lower gas prices relative to income; this trend is encouraging but only one of several factors that impact sales.
I know many of this has asked about our sales expectations for the second and third quarters.
The comparisons are considerably more difficult.
Our certain markets and categories outperformed during last winter others underperformed.
We believe we should improve in those regions in our maintenance categories shift the weather patterns be considerably different.
As our history has shown we managed this business focusing on both the short and long term performance.
As we entered the second quarter we are keenly focused on delivering consistent strong performance and extending our streak of 33 consecutive quarters of double-digit EPS growth.
Our operating theme for 2015 is wow every customer everywhere and our key -- for the year are one great people providing great service; two profitably growing our commercial business; three leveraging the Internet; four leveraging technology to improve the customer experience while optimizing efficiencies and five improving inventory availability.
On the retail front last quarter under the great people providing great service theme we continued with our intense focus on improving execution.
Along with the improvements to our catalog assortment we’re incorporating more training tools to help our store AutoZoners provide trustworthy advice.
Training will continue to be a larger effort for us at the store level.
Behind the scenes we have reset our expectations on technology investment and challenge ourselves to make sure our offerings are relevant across all shopping platforms.
We realize that customers have become much more tech and mobile savvy we have to have a sales proposition that touches all the way as they desire to interact with us.
Our current and future technology investments will lead to sales growth across all of our businesses.
In regards to commercial we opened 61 programs during the quarter.
Our expectation is we will continue to open new programs and grow our percentage of stores with commercial programs although our pace of growth will likely moderate.
We expect to open approximately 300 programs this year versus 424 last year.
As we continue to improve our product assortment and availability and as we make other refinements to our offerings we expect that the sales potential will continue to increase.
Our results continued to provide us confidence to be aggressive in adding additional resources and new programs to this important growth initiative which also highlight another strong performance in return on invested capital as we were able to finish Q1 at 31.7%.
We are very pleased with this metric as it is one of the best if not the best in all of hard lines retail.
However our primary focus has been and continues to be that we ensure every incremental dollar of capital that we deployed in this business provides an acceptable return well in excess of cost to capital.
It is important to reinforce that we will always maintain our diligence regarding capital stewardship as the capital we invest is our investors’ capital.
Before I pass the discussion over to Bill Giles to talk about our financial results I’d like to recognize our entire organization for their efforts to manage the business appropriately and prudently.
We have an amazing team and our initiatives for 2015 are exciting.
With our ongoing supply chain initiatives as well as the inclusion in upcoming expansion IMC we are ready to continue to provide wide customer service to all our customers and we are ready to continue to prudently manage our cost structure providing our shareholders with a consistency we have exhibited.
Now here is Bill.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone to start this morning let me take a few moments to discuss our retail commercial and international results for the quarter.
During the quarter total auto parts sales which include our domestic retail IMC and commercial businesses our Mexico stores and our five stores in Brazil increased 8%.
Regarding the macro trends during the quarter nationally unleaded gas prices started out at $3.46 a gallon and ended the quarter at $2.82 a gallon a $0.64 decrease.
Last year gas prices decreased $0.31 per gallon during the first quarter starting at $3.60 and ending at $3.29 a gallon.
We continue to believe gas prices have a real impact on our customers’ abilities to maintain their vehicles and as cost reductions help all Americans we hope to benefit from an increase in disposable income.
We also recognize that the impact of miles driven on cars over 10 years old the current average is much different than on newer cars in terms of wear and tear.
Miles driven increased 2.3% in September I don’t have October November data yet.
The other statistic we highlight is the number of seven-year and older vehicles on the road which continues to trend in our industry’s favored.
For the trailing four quarters total sales per auto parts locations was $1 746 000.
This statistic continues to set the pace for the rest of the industry.
For the quarter commercial sales increased 13% commercial represented 17% of our total sales and grew $45 million over last the year of Q1.
Last year’s commercial sales mix percent was also 17%.
This past quarter we opened a 61 new programs versus 125 programs opened in our first quarter of last fiscal year.
We now have our commercial program in 3 906 stores supported by 171 hub stores.
Approximately 1 200 of our programs are three years old or younger.
Let me take a moment and discuss our commercial program performance.
As I mentioned our commercial sales were up 13% this past quarter a nice acceleration versus last quarter while our average sales per program is below some peers in our industry at $8500.
We feel we are on the right track and methodically close that gap.
It’s important to highlight that we accelerated our new program growth over the past few years as approximately 30% of our programs are younger than three years old.
These openings have impacted our average sales metric and cannibalized some of our older programs.
However our focus is on growing market share and improving our service levels by having more programs closer to our customers.
This year we are increasingly focused on measuring and growing sales in our older programs and the specific emphasis on our long-term customer growth.
Looking specifically at our matured programs those at least five years old they grew in a high single digit range this past quarter.
Additionally we still have significant opportunity to open additional programs over the next several years.
We feel good about the successes we have had and probably growing the commercial business.
In summary we remain committed to our long-term growth strategy.
We believe the improvements we have made in upcoming additional improvements from our inventory availability initiatives enhance our prospects and we believe the addition of IMC will provide us with additional avenues to service our commercial customers very effectively.
We believe we are well positioned to grow this business and capture increased market share.
Our Mexico stores continue to perform well.
We opened 4 new stores during the first quarter and we currently have 406 stores in Mexico.
We expect to open a similar of stores in Mexico this fiscal year that we open last year.
Our returns and profit growth continue to be in line with our expectations.
Now regarding Brazil we are currently operating five stores we didn’t open any stores this quarter our plans remains open a few more stores and then refine our offerings improves our accounts of more for our customers and is financially viable.
Our sales growth has been very encouraging and on plan.
We continue to operate a considerable loss this is due to expected to having such a small store base and carrying distribution capabilities and overhead that can handle far more stores.
Once we refinance our offerings in operations and value at the performance we will provide you with an update on our long-term growth plans.
Recapping this past quarters performance for the company in total our sales were $2 260 million and increase of 8% domestic same stores sales or sales were stores are for more than year were up 4.5% for the quarter.
Gross margin for the quarter was 52.1% of sales up 20 basis points.
The improvement in gross margin was attributable to higher merchandize margins and lower strength expense.
Partially offset by the impact on margin from the IMC acquisition.
And regards to inflation is been basically non-existing for couple of years now of certain categories have had some price increases in general.
We have slightly more decreases at this point our assumption is we experience of produce for pricing heading into the new calendar year and therefore we feel cautiously predictable and manageable.
We will remain confident in the future development regarding inflation and we’ll make the appropriate judgment should they arrive.
Looking forward we continue to believe the remains opportunity for gross margin expansion within both retail and commercial businesses however we do not manage through a target growth margin percentage as the growth of our commercial business has been a steady headwind and our overall gross margins rate for few years was not bother to call out the headwind quarterly and it is part of our operating model.
Additionally until the anniversary of the acquisition IMC will present a headwind on a gross margin of approximately 30 basis points over the next three quarters as this business model operates to lower gross margin rates.
Our primary focus remains growing absolute gross profit dollars in our total auto part segment.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 33.8% of sales higher by 45 basis points from last year's first quarter.
The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of sales was primarily due to higher legal cost and self-insured medical cost.
Now IMC will also have approximately 10 basis points of deleverage on SG&amp;A in the upcoming quarters.
We continue to believe we are well positioned to manage our cost structure in response to our sales environment.
EBIT for the quarter was $409 million up 6.5% over last year's first quarter.
Our EBIT margin was down 25 basis points at 18.1%.
Interest expense for the quarter was $37.1 million compared with $42.4 million in Q1 a year ago.
Debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $4.422 billion or approximately $250 million more than last year's balance of $4.174 billion.
Our adjusted debt-level metric finished the quarter at 2.5 times EBITDAR.
While in any given quarter we may increase or decrease or leverage metrics based on management's opinion debt regarding debt and equity market conditions we remain committed to both our investment grade ratings and our capital allocation strategy and share repurchases are an important element of our strategy.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 35.9% down slightly from last year's first quarter.
We expect our annual rate to be closer to 36.7% on an ongoing basis as the deviation in results this quarter was primarily driven by the resolution of discrete tax items that arose.
Net income for the quarter was $238 million up 9.3%.
Our diluted share count of 32.8 million was down 5.5% from last year's first quarter.
The combination of these factors drove earnings per share for the quarter to $7.27 up 15.6% over the prior year's first quarter.
Relating to the cash flow statements in the first fiscal quarter we generated $375 million of operating cash flow.
Net fixed assets were up 8% versus last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $92 million and reflected the additional expenditures required to open 27 new stores this quarter capital expenditures on existing stores hub store remodels work on development on new stores for upcoming quarters and information technology investments.
With the new stores opened we finished this past quarter with 5 006 stores in 49 states the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.
406 stores in Mexico 17 IMC locations and 5 stores in Brazil for a total count of 5 434.
Depreciation totaled $61 million for the quarter versus last year's first quarter expense of $56 million; this is in line with recent quarter growth rates.
With our excess cash flow we repurchased $300 million of AutoZone stock in the first quarter.
At the end of the quarter we had $517 million remaining under our share buyback optimization and our leverage metric was 2.5 times.
Again I want to stress we manage through appropriate credit ratings and not any one metric.
The metric we report is meant to guide only of each rating firm has its own criteria.
We continue to do view our share repurchase program as an attractive capital deployment strategy.
Accounts payable as a percentage of growth inventory finished the quarter at a 112.5% and includes of IMC reduced AP ratio of approximately 150 basis points.
Next I would like to update you on our inventory levels in total and on a per store basis; we reported an inventory balance of $3.3 billion of 11% versus the Q1 ending balance last year.
Increased inventory reflects the recent IMC acquisition new store growth and additional investments and coverage.
Inventory per store was up 6.7% at $604 000 per store reflecting our continued investments and hard parts coverage and the IMC acquisition.
The increase in inventory per store this quarter from last quarter was predominantly IMC driven which added just over $10 000 per store to this metric.
Excluding IMC inventory was up 9% over the last year Q1.
Finally as Bill previously mentioned our continued disciplined capital management approach resulted in return on invested capital for the trailing four quarters of 31.7%.
We have and will continue to make investments that we believe will generate returns and significantly exceed our cost of capital.
Now I will turn it back to Bill Rhodes.
Thank you Bill.
We are pleased this morning to report our 33rd consecutive quarter of double digit EPS growth growing this quarter at a rate of 15.6%.
Our company has continued to be successful over the long run.
That success is attributable to our approach to leveraging our unique and powerful culture and focusing on the needs of our customers.
At the end of the day our customers have choices and we must innovate to ensure they turn to us for the rate of corporate needs.
As we continue to invest in our businesses and monitor the results from our ongoing inventory initiatives we are optimistic about our future.
We feel like we continue to be on the right track.
Again we’re excited about our initiatives around inventory assortment hub stores commercial growth Mexico all data e-commerce Brazil and now IMC.
Our long term model is to grow new stores square footage at a low single digit growth rate and we expect to continue growing our commercial business at an accelerated rate.
Therefore we look to grow EBIT dollars in the mid-single digit range or better in terms of strength.
And we leverage our very strong and predictable cash flow to repurchase shares enhancing our earnings per share growth in the double digits.
We feel the track we are on will allow us to continue winning for the long run.
We believe our steady consistent strategy is correct.
It is the intention to details and consistent execution that will matter.
Our belief is solid consistent strategy combined with superior execution is a formula for success.
Our charge remains to optimize our performance regardless of market conditions and continue to ensure we are investing in the key initiatives that will drive our long-term performance.
In the end delivering strong EPS growth in ROIC each and every quarter is how we measure ourselves.
We are pleased with our results this past year but we must remain committed to delivering on our strategic and financial objectives.
Now we’d like to open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Alan Rifkin with Barclays.
Thank you very much and congratulations on a very nice quarter.
First question is for Bill Rhodes.
So with all of the new initiatives that you’re presently undertaking whether it’s increasing delivery frequency investment in the mega hubs or the IMC acquisition it seems like there is much greater willingness on part to possibly take on more risk and grow the business at a greater rate.
Can you maybe just provide a little bit color on why that seems to be at this pointing time and if there anyone of those programs where you have greater confidence than the others.
Thank you.
That’s a terrific question.
I think I would say the -- has moved modestly I don’t want to send the message that we’ve changed our investment profile significantly.
But working with our terrific Board of Directors we’ve made a decision to take on a little bit more risk and diversify our portfolio a little bit and you mentioned -- all the winning thing is also another great example of that which has allowed us much better insights into the online retail market and provided us with another great team and a good solid business.
I think you asked also which one do we think is the biggest as most potential I would tell you that inventory availability has the most potential because it impacts roughly $8 billion of our revenue today.
IMC and all the winning thing are clearly smaller businesses and good solid businesses in growth aspects but the inventory availability initiatives can also significantly impact the overall business.
Also let out that we’ve been growing in Brazil as well and as we mentioned it’s cost us significant amount of money and operating loss is down there as we try to get stand up and go on but at the same time that happen when we were in Mexico initially now we seat here with over 400 stores in a very solid business model in Mexico.
Okay.
So Bill as to continue to target inventory availability and you has different delivery frequencies what are you learning and obviously it increases revenues at think that’s probably clear but what are the cost associated with testing those different delivery frequencies and ultimately you believe that this can be accretive to EBIT margin as well as accretive to comps and revenues? This is terrific question.
I’ll give you some color on it but the reason we’re not saying it today here is what we’re going to do is because we don’t know all of those answers yet.
So on delivery frequency for instance we tested two times a week we’ve tested three times a week we’ve tested five times a week.
We don’t know what the right answer is yet.
The cost profile of going twice a week is very different and going five times a week.
Similarly with mega hubs we’re finding how far can we go out on a same day basis versus an overnight basis and the cost profile is very different.
I’ll tell you that I would not expect this initiative would be EBIT margin accretive in fact I would expect it to be dilutive I can’t tell you today how much it will dilutive I wouldn’t expect massively dilutive but it’s hard when you hold yourself to a 19% roughly annual EBIT margin to say you’re going to do new initiatives that are going to meet that.
We do not want to hold ourselves for that standard.
Just one last one if I may and I'll pass it on.
Is it possible that some stores might be better served with two times a week as opposed to three or five? Can there be some variability in the delivery frequency? I'm having a lot of difficulty with that word this morning.
Yes it is a difficult word [indiscernible] prepared comment.
I think that’s a question that we’re asking ourselves right now if so we have a distribution center in Dallas Texas and we have a $70 000 store in Dallas going there five times a week seems pretty easy.
But we have to far go North Dakota does it makes sense to go five times week? Those are question that we just haven’t answered at this point.
Okay.
Thank you let me pass it on to somebody else.
Thank you.
The next question is from Robert Higginbotham with SunTrust.
Good morning everyone.
You mentioned the potential for two to three more DCs or that you expect it to put into two to three more DCs to increase your inventory availability.
That seemed to cover a broad range of potential frequencies for deliveries.
What kind of range would that two to three cover? Would that go up to daily would that be two to three times a week how should we think about that?  Well the most were attempting today’s five times I wouldn’t call it daily.
But we would be able to briefs the networks that we think we need to reach on a two to five time a week basis from if we added that those three distribution centers.
Okay fair enough.
And then have you talked about what kind of lift do you see on sales at the stores you tested to the five time?  No we haven’t because we’re testing around the 150 stores and we’re testing with different profiles.
And frankly the results were mix were all positive but the range of results were different different markets are performing different ways.
So we need to get a better handle on it that’s why we’re going to expand the test to further validate our results.
These are big decisions that we will make and we’re taking our time to make sure we make the right decisions.
Okay and one last one on IMC.
Beyond the next 12 months where you said you'd add a handful how do you think about the potential number of warehouses obviously advances put out some pretty aggressive numbers out there for world Pac with IMC being at least a similar concept.
Any reason you couldn't over time maybe reach something close to those levels of locations and then as part of that could you talk about how capital intensive the new IMC warehouse is any numbers we can share on unit economics would be helpful thanks.
Sure on the number of locations we think we will have over a 100 at some point of time not see like anybody else would have more than we do.
So that will be our plan overtime but we’re going to open a handful this year this is a new business for us new endeavor for us and we’re going to work with the IMC team to figure out how can invest leverage each other and open a few make sure that we get the performance that we want and then we will accelerate from them.
And then from the capital perspective on the stores or the locations are typically non-retail and more warehouse locations so there are typically certainly less than retail locations with cost.
Thank you.
The next question is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Thanks.
So Bill in expanding the daily delivery or the delivery capabilities of two to five times a week that would still be I guess less frequent than your three largest competitors in the commercial channel.
What do you think that you would be leaving on the table by not going to maybe a multiple daily delivery rate?  Well just to clarify we will be doing multiple times a day from our hub stores and our mega hubs in those markets.
And so I don’t think we would be if we win a five times a week I don’t think we would be at any competitive disadvantages at that point in time.
So the two to five times per week is from the large distribution center and then you'd top off additionally from the hubs and mega hubs?  Three times a day typically within a week more approximately to the store.
So when you look at roughly the 30% gap in revenue per program do you think this is the game changer that will get you to that 11-$12 000 a week level?  I don’t know the answer to that yet Dan.
But what I do know is this will be a material change in our ability to fulfill our customers need.
We are seeing significant improvements in sales performance my personal expectations is that we’ll grow overtime as our commercial customers in particular experience us being all to fill their needs at higher level.
And I think it can make a big difference Whether or not that's a silver bullet I don’t think there is a silver bullet I think we’ve got to stick to our net and continue to improved business every day and get letter.
Separate question on the legal expenses that appears to be about $0.09 a share after-tax.
Is this a one off issue tied to the lawsuit that was in the papers a few weeks ago or do you think this is going to be an ongoing higher expense rate tied to just the legal environment that you're in?  That’s not a former we want to talk about anything in particular.
But obviously during the quarter we believe we had a onetime non-recurring cost and just you pointed is roughly about 22 basis points SG&amp;A for just this quarter.
The final question for Bill Rhodes.
When you think about the benefits of the drop in gasoline prices compared to the headwinds from the favorable weather last year which went in that tug of war?  I am sorry can you say it loud [indiscernible].
Which is the most relevant the benefit from the drop in gas O loan prices or the headwind from the more difficult sales comparison from the ideal weather last year.
Clearly we had terrific performance last year in the second quarter.
We saw in specific categories the weather related categories performed exceedingly well.
However some of the other categories did not perform well.
We talked about that last year in the second quarter.
So it's going to be the weather is going what it's going to be.
There is not material changes that we need to make our business.
So we are going to just go up and slug it up the best we can.
Gas prices really dropped precipitously just recently and we are beginning to see some of the benefits.
I expect the benefits to be bigger overtime if they remain at these levels or even go over but as far as comparing the two I think you have just as good insight on that as I do.
Thank you.
The next question is from Aram Rubinson with Wolfe Research.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
A couple of really good questions already asked.
Just want to tie it towards the cash flow if we can.
I think back in 2012 you reduced your share counts by 9% and then the following year by 8% and following year by 7% and this year we're kind of 5.5 so what I'm wondering is where does that go and implicit is where does CapEx need to go to accommodate these that you've got on the docket?  Yes I think that's a good question.
I think if you look at it over the last several years we obviously had some benefits on working capital and you look at AP to inventory.
And as we've kind of headlined over the last several quarters that we feel great about where we are from AP to inventory ratio well over a 100% and we think there is some moderate opportunities for us to continue to improve AP to inventory but we do not anticipate having the kind of increases in AP to inventory going forward that we experienced over the last several years some of that attributed to helping us from a share repurchase perspective.
I think relative to capital investments in terms of distributions et cetera as Bill mentioned we may add two to three distribution centers of the next several years and we still have work to do to determine whether when we will do it how many we will do it et cetera.
But also keep in mind that we would have added one or two distribution centers overtime anyway just to support our footprint across the United States I mean you can clearly get out of map and see that we really don't have a lot of distribution capabilities necessarily in the North West relatively to the amount of stores we've opened over the last five years.
So some of that is inherent in our model overall.
So we will give you a little bit more color on the inventory initiative over the next couple of quarters as we finish up the test and have the better plan.
I think from a share repurchase perspective we think we are in a pretty good position right now and we will continue to seek opportunities to improve working capital but I think that's kind of gap existing over the last several years.
Well without giving us a number can you tell us where you might have flex room inside of CapEx if you did decide to step it up on the DC side what things might be able to come out to accommodate it? Thank you.
I am sure there are some things in there nothing significant to be excited at the moment.
I mean one thing for sure that we want to make sure we're doing is looking down the road so we're going to continue to make sure that we are making information system investments in order to support our growth long-term both domestically and internationally.
We are very diligent about according our pledge making sure that our stores look right and are going to continue to invest in our maintenance and training of our AutoZoners.
So there will be opportunities for us to eat the CapEx a little but we will definitely have some costs relative to distribution centers.
Thank you.
The next question is from Michael Lasser with UBS.
Hi this is Max on your Michael Lasser.
Congrats on the quarter and thanks a lot for taking my question.
How far do you think your current inventory initiatives can take you in closing the commercial sales per program gap with your peers? I think it's too early for us to tell.
As I mentioned our performance so far with everything is performing well but there's a pretty wide band of how they are performing.
I also think it's going to take time just because we are proving availability it's going to take time to further deepen those relationships with our commercial customers.
I think we are doing a lot of great things in our commercial business as I mentioned in the prepared remarks.
We've grown commercial double digits for five straight quarters and I think that's pretty impressive and also we will continue to do this.
Thanks a lot.
Also just kind of as a follow-up can you maybe dimension some of the cannibalization you're seeing from your younger programs at all? We can internally.
We don't necessarily discuss it externally.
I think the key is to focus on for this quarter is that we've obviously improved the productivity of our commercial programs on an average weekly sale basis which is along the way as we measure some 8 500 versus 8 300 last year.
We're seeing a high single digit growth out of our material programs so we feel pretty good about the programs as they mature and we recognize the 30% of our overall programs three years old and younger.
And so there will continue to be some cannibalization on those more from just transferring mature customers around but overall we feel pretty good about the growth rates that we’ve achieved on commercial and we feel pretty good about the trend rates that we’ve seen on commercial.
Thank you.
The next question is from Seth Basham with Wedbush Securities.
You guys had same-store sales accelerate 240 basis points from Q4 to Q1.
Could you try to break down the drivers of that acceleration between inventory availability whether industry growth etc?  One of the things we thought weather was probably worth around a point or so.
I think from a GAAP perspective or lower fuel cost as Bill mentioned before lot of that happen late in the quarter so I suspect that benefited some.
So those items and I think the progression you saw from comp store sales in really a result of lot of the initiatives that we put in place and we think back on inventory optimization the algorithms that we changed that inventory into the stores et cetera now that take itself for just about a little over a year now.
We feel pretty good about that and as mentioned before on many of these initiatives it’s going to take time for the customers to recognize the changes that we’ve made.
So that inventory optimization is a great example of one where it took several months and now we believe that we’re starting to see some benefits they can drive results.
Got it and as you look forward obviously you don't provide guidance but from the outside in should we be thinking about consistent two year stack comps for the next couple quarters?  Yes that we don’t really look at it that way.
We’re kind of looking at how we’re doing right now this past quarter and what we have in front of us and as Bill mentioned before clearly next quarter has a high comp because we have some severe weather and that impacted a lot of failure related categories in lot of the northeast market at the same time there are lot of maintenance categories that underperformed and there were market outside of the northeast that underperform.
So we’ll have to wait and see how it all shakes out but we think that there is opportunities from a category in region perspective and if gas prices stay down that can only be helpful.
Okay and then lastly on deflation would you expect to see more deflation running through your business with oil prices down impact on oil and chemicals specifically as well as products with steel input?  Intellectually a little bit we would expect to see some deflation that we haven’t seen it yet.
So there is some little bit of deflation at oil there are other categories that have experienced some inflation still on the whole.
We’ve seen relatively the nine inflation or deflation in total we have to wait and see how it shake out right now we don’t really see a big change.
Thank you.
The next question is from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks a lot good morning.
I want to start out by focusing if we could on SG&amp;A.
Even when we isolate out the two discrete items that you called out healthcare and legal the growth rate in SG&amp;A looks to have picked up a bit and I guess just slightly from where you were earlier in the year.
How should we think about your expense comparison going forward and how much discretionary investments would you say is in bedded in the underlying SG&amp;A number here in the November quarter?  I think it’s a good question Matt I think that obviously we have the legal insurance to put IMC cost and there we didn’t call out expose things our which probably get flat SG&amp;A rate year-over-year but you had a 4.5 comp.
So you’d expect to have had some leverage on SG&amp;A above that I would think it’s a way to think through that is we probably at a little bit from a discretionary perspective and that’s a much discretionary as these inventory initiatives although we haven’t quantify them.
There are a little bit headwind from an operating cost perspective and we would expect those to continue over the next couple of quarters as we continue access those out.
So there are some dollars there I’m not going to quantify exactly what the percentages are but I think we can run flattish for the quarter if willing back out some of those items and then probably had a little bit of investments on our initiatives.
Just to follow that through a little bit you've had a track record over the past couple years of tightening your belts a bit when the business has been tough as was the case in your fiscal 13 and then investing a bit more in the business has been better so because you did that last year your expense compare looks easy if you will just given you had the sizeable increase so should we consider then perhaps to compare might be easy but the investments should persist into the middle of this year given the Supply Chain dynamics or Supply Chain investments remain very much under way?  Exactly right.
And then a follow-up just trying to work with some of the numbers you gave us to understand the intrinsic profit ability of IMC today and where it could be headed so presuming that it's about a 1.5% "business pro forma you talked about a 30 basis point drag on gross margin and I believe you talked about the 10 basis point drag going forward in SG&amp;A.
Should that spell out something like a mid-single digit operating margin for that business as we speak?  I would say not as we speak I think we think of them in growth note and so they’ve got some immature businesses.
We’re going to continue to invest in those businesses et cetera.
And so we will need to improve the profitability of IMC and then more importantly we also need to overtime help our own commercial customers through IMC product.
And I know it's a small business but given that it's sort of tough to get at a precise number would you say that business is in the black today just to get clear on that.
Now to be clear on that Matt just not to talk around it it is in the slide 1.
Got it and the profit potential of that model overtime as you think about intrinsic gross margins and term potential et cetera.
Yes obviously that’s probably close to what you’re thinking before versus probably a mid-single digit kind of a number.
But the bigger opportunity would be the broader base.
Understood.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
The next question is from Greg Melich with Evercore ISI.
Hi thanks.
A couple follow-ups I think.
One was on the sequential improvement in the comp trend.
How much of that was I heard traffic was still a little bit negative but how much of that sequential improvement was traffic versus ticket?  I think it was both and I’ve talk about it earlier.
The ticket for on the less from year it’s been really quick it’s being continuing to grow it’s been some due.
And let trend changed back to the time normalize trends this quarter.
But traffic also improved as we’re looking and talking about the acceleration from Q4 I’d also remind as us all that nobody was really happy with Q4 and remember this July was really poor and August was poor as well.
So I wouldn’t necessarily the base line if you will.
Okay great and then just to understand a little bit more I think I heard in your comments that you had lower product acquisition costs.
What's driving that and if you think about it going forward I think you mentioned inflation just isn't back at all.
Do you think there's actually deflation likely to come into next year?  Yes I think our merchandizing organization pretend this to do a great job both and identifying new vendors for existing product where we can reduce our cost in direct import opportunities overseas doing things directly or finding new vendors overseas as well.
So I think the merchandizing organization is done a great job from flowing our acquisition costs.
Haven’t seen in total lot of deflation necessarily but we haven’t seen inflation either obviously.
Going forward right now our expectations is that there won’t be much deflation or inflation but clearly in some categories we expect we’ll be all to the deflation.
I think overall be relatively flat.
And were most where you are now in terms of direct import as a percentage?  It’s out of significant percentage certainly well below 20%.
Okay and Duralast do you have a number for that?  Our 10 granted products was value throughout the last year last 12 products see max are represent to serve a 50% of all of our sales.
Thank you.
That’s all time we have for questions.
I’d like to turn call over to Bill Rhodes for final comments.
Before we conclude the call I’d just like to take a moment to reiterate that we have a long and strong heritage of consistent impressive performance.
While we are excited about our growth prospects for the year.
We will not take anything for granted as we understand our customers have choices.
We have a solid plan to succeed this fiscal year but I want to stress that this is a marathon and not a sprint.
As we continue to focus on the basics and focus on optimizing long term shareholder value we are confident AutoZone will continue to be very successful.
We thank you for participating in today’s call.
And we like to wish everyone a very happy and healthy holiday season and a prosperous New Year.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the AutoZone conference call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session of the conference.
Please be advised today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
This conference call will discuss AutoZone's second quarter financial results.
Bill Rhodes the company's Chairman President and CEO will be making a short presentation on the highlights of the quarter.
The conference call will end promptly at 10 A.M.
Central Time/11 A.M.
Eastern Time.
Before Mr.
Rhodes begins the company has requested that you listen to the following statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Certain statements contained in this presentation are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use words such as believe anticipate should intend plan will expect estimate project position strategy and similar expressions.
These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends current conditions expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including without limitation credit market conditions the impact of recessionary conditions competition product demand the ability to hire and retain qualified employees consumer debt levels inflation weather raw material costs of our suppliers energy prices war and the prospect of war including terrorist activity availability of consumer transportation construction delays access to available and feasible financing and changes in laws or regulations.
Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 30 2014 and these risk factors should be read carefully.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Good morning and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone's 2015 Second Quarter Conference Call.
With me today are Bill Giles Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer IT and ALLDATA; and Brian Campbell Vice President Treasurer Investor Relations and Tax.
Regarding the second quarter I hope you've had an opportunity to read our press release and learn about the quarter's results.
If not the press release along with slides complementing our comments today is available on our website www.autozoneinc.com.
Please click on Quarterly Earnings Conference Calls to see them.
To begin this morning I want to thank all AutoZoners across the globe for delivering another solid quarter.
We remain focused on several key initiatives and on growing our business on a variety of fronts.
We've diversified our portfolio somewhat in recent years with an emphasis on building additional legs of growth for the future.
Our Retail domestic business which generates approximately 70% of our revenues performed well in Q2.
And we continue to see opportunities for future growth in store count and same-store sales.
Secondly our Commercial domestic business which has been growing sales by double digits for five years accelerated its growth in Q2 and continues to be a tremendous growth opportunity.
Regarding our international operations we've been doing business in Mexico since late 1998 and our model has proven to work quite well.
In Brazil we are still in test phase but our sales have continued to grow nicely.
As with other international companies the strengthening dollar has negatively impacted our U.S.
dollar earnings from these operations recently.
Our Internet businesses AutoZone.com and AutoAnything continue to grow nicely and generally consistent with our expectations.
ALLDATA which is the leading diagnostic and repair business in the United States continues to perform well although our growth in that business has slowed as the market has become more competitive in recent years and as our market share has reached all-time highs.
And finally IMC an imports parts specialist that we acquired in the fall has begun the integration process where we are working to expand their footprint of branches and where we are working to leverage their inventory assortment across the AutoZone domestic store base.
This past quarter our U.S.
Retail business expanded with the opening of 36 net new stores.
We also opened 29 net new Commercial programs.
Our Commercial business continued to grain traction growing sales 14.5% for the quarter.
We have the Commercial programs in 78% of our domestic stores having opened approximately 800 new programs in just the past two years.
Additionally we opened five stores in Mexico during the quarter.
In Brazil we continue to operate five stores and expect to open a couple of new ones over the next few months.
We currently have 8% of our total stores outside of the United States.
Finally we opened our first IMC branch since we acquired the company.
And we are in the final stages of relocating their East Coast distribution center.
We believe we have growth opportunities on a variety of fronts in the United States and outside the U.S.
for many years to come.
As mentioned on our last conference call during our first fiscal quarter our sales continued to gain momentum throughout the quarter.
And in the last two weeks due to the first significant cold weather our sales grew significantly.
Due to last year's very strong Q2 sales up 4.3% on a same-store basis the comparisons for this past quarter were challenging.
We were quite pleased with our performance throughout the second quarter especially in light of the difficult comparisons.
And we ended the quarter with domestic same-store sales of 3.6%.
This represents more than 200 basis points improvement on a two-year rolling same-store basis from last quarter.
We were pleased to see we gained traction in sales categories where we've added merchandise and our Commercial business benefited from both the inventory additions and the diligent focus on growing sales in our older programs with particular emphasis on mature customers.
Our results were strongest in the West South and South Central states and were weakest in the Northeastern and Midwestern markets.
These weaker markets performed quite well last year with the extremely cold winter.
And we knew the comparison this year would be difficult.
While our cold weather-related categories didn't perform as well as last year they continued to perform well under the circumstances.
And as anticipated our maintenance-related categories performed quite well in the quarter.
Our belief is the Improvement and Maintenance category sales was driven by more conducive weather patterns improved merchandise assortments due to the products we have added over the last year and lower gas prices which we believe is relieving some pressure particularly on our most economically challenged customers.
In recent years we have experienced a significant growth in our sales concurrent with the U.S.
tax refund season.
We believe our most economically challenged customers use their refunds to make repairs and enhancements to their vehicles that they have deferred for some time.
Each year the exact timing of tax refunds moves a bit and those moves occur at the very end of our second quarter or at the beginning of our third quarter.
If you recall in fiscal 2013 we cited the delays in tax refunds that caused a material reduction in our sales the last two weeks of the quarter where we saw 8% decline in same-store sales for those two weeks.
This year refunds began earlier and helped our business particularly in the second-to-last week of the quarter.
This one week added about 100 basis points to our same-store sales for the quarter.
Overall we were quite pleased with our sales performance in Q2.
Our inventory per location increased over our Q1 2015 levels.
The primary driver of this increase was timing.
We typically experience an increase in inventory as we prepare for the spring selling season.
We anticipate that inventory levels will decline somewhat as this merchandise sells over the balance of the next two quarters.
Additionally the IMC acquisition has increased our inventory per store across the chain by $11 000 per store.
IMC branches carry approximately 10 times the inventory per location that an average AutoZone store carries but their volumes on a per-location basis are materially higher as well.
As we mentioned during the last several quarterly calls we've been testing different delivery frequencies from our distribution centers.
Our ongoing tests show us that increased delivery frequency increases sales and improves inventory productivity by reducing safety stops.
We've been running tests in just over 150 stores for approximately a year.
And based on the success of our initial results during the second quarter we made the decision to expand the test to more than 300 additional stores.
These stores were added to the test in the last couple of weeks of the second quarter and the first week of the third quarter.
We now have the test in approximately 10% of our domestic chains which we believe gives us a substantial base of stores to assess performance.
The results to date show a nice low single-digit lift in sales but we aren't prepared yet to determine our long-term strategy.
We still have a significant amount to learn including the optimal number of deliveries each store should receive weekly.
It could be three four five times or more.
Ultimately assuming our current findings continue we would expect to increase the delivery frequency to most of our stores.
And we would expect to add two to three additional distribution centers to do this cost effectively and timely.
If we ultimately elect to increase the delivery frequency to our stores we will increase our capital expenditures primarily for the new distribution centers but we will also add annual operating expenses.
Our modeling to date based on our current results shows that while it is somewhat dilutive to gross and operating margins over the long term it is sufficiently additive to operating profit dollars and provides us with returns above our internal hurdle rate.
We've been pleased with our learnings to date.
And we are excited to expand our test to hopefully improve on our results and confirm our expectations.
Additionally we have been testing what we call mega-hubs.
Mega-hubs have substantially increased product assortments and they leverage those increased product assortments across other hub networks providing stores across a large geography access to this expanded assortment.
We have been testing two mega-hubs for about a year.
Based on the encouraging results we've seen to date we're expanding the mega-hub program by an additional three locations which should open over the balance of our fiscal year.
Once these three locations are opened 35% of our domestic store base will have access to these expanded inventory assortments.
If these three additional mega-hubs meet or exceed our expectations we will develop a long-term strategy to roll out mega-hubs to provide service to the majority of our domestic stores.
All of our inventory availability initiatives are designed to significantly increase our ability to meet our customers' needs.
As our Commercial business has grown and our DIY customers' needs increase our need for expanded parts assortments continues.
This has been important and difficult work and I'd like to thank everyone in the organization that has been involved with this initiative for their excellent work.
Now I'll take a moment to discuss our recently completed acquisition of Interamerican Motor Corporation.
IMC is the second largest distributor of OE quality import replacement parts in the United States.
They specialize in parts coverage for European and Asian cars.
While considerably smaller than the number one participant in the industry IMC now with 18 branches offers an impressive growth opportunity for us not just because of the parts coverage but also because of the very strong management team.
While it's premature I will mention our plans include opening more IMC branches and incorporating their parts catalog into the AutoZone Z-Net parts catalog.
We will continue to go to market as IMC and we expect to open a handful of new IMC locations over the next 12 months.
This past January we made the IMC catalog available to a small number of AutoZone stores near an IMC location.
Thus far while really early we are pleased.
We have seen a lift in those stores' Commercial sales that encourages us that our assumptions on the sales lift to AutoZone from cross-selling were correct.
In fact we're slightly ahead of our original sales assumptions again in a statistically insignificant number of AutoZone stores but so far so good.
Let me stress.
The IMC brand is very important to us.
And we will grow the brand and its presence in the future in many more markets than it is in today.
IMC has been in a growth mode recently and it's built an infrastructure to support a substantially larger footprint.
It currently doesn't enjoy the operating margins that we experienced so it will lower our overall EBIT margins by approximately 40 basis points on an annual basis.
We are very excited to have the great IMC team as part of our organization and very optimistic about our future together.
The IMC team has embraced the acquisition by AutoZone.
And we all are very excited about the future of our two companies together as this acquisition makes both of us stronger.
Now let's turn to our second quarter results.
Our sales increased 7.7% and our domestic same-store sales were up 3.6%.
Both Retail and Commercial experienced positive same-store sales growth.
Our same-stores fluctuated from week to week due to the wild swings in weather patterns that occur this time of year.
The overall trajectory of our business was quite consistent throughout most of the quarter.
That consistency was across all regions of the country.
We believe we benefited from macro tailwinds our work on inventory availability and on solid execution.
While our failure-related and maintenance merchandise categories performed well we were especially happy to see the growth in our maintenance categories.
Regarding traffic versus ticket in our DIY business traffic was slightly negative while ticket was positive.
Interestingly the Northeast and Midwest experienced declines in customer count around 5% while the rest of the country was positive together blending to be down slightly.
The comparison to last year's extreme cold in the Northern markets was a big contributor to this year being a difficult comparison.
Our average ticket grew generally consistent with the first quarter when it returned to more normalized levels after about a year of subdued growth.
The hard parts additions we've added to our stores have helped drive ticket growth.
While improvement in product quality has pressured traffic over the last couple of decades the technology advancements have significantly increased the price of the products we sell.
We've been managing through this phenomenon as mentioned for over two decades and expect to continue to do so.
We opened 29 new Commercial programs in the quarter versus 49 programs in the comparable period last year.
We now have a Commercial program in 78% of our domestic store base.
Our Commercial sales excluding IMC were up 14.5% this quarter.
Our productivity per program showed a nice uptick this past quarter.
We have intensified our focus on mature program growth and specifically mature customer growth and it was encouraging to see the improvements that began in Q1 further accelerate in Q2.
Regarding Mexico we opened five stores this quarter.
Sales in our other businesses for the quarter were up 9.2% over last year's second quarter.
As a reminder ALLDATA and e-commerce which includes AutoZone.com and AutoAnything make up this segment of sales.
Regarding online sales there continue to be great opportunities for growth on both a business-to-business basis and to the individual consumers or B2C.
While these businesses are small for us at just 4% of our total sales mix on the quarter we expect these businesses to grow at a faster rate than our brick-and-mortar business for the foreseeable future.
With the continued aging of the car population and with gas prices on average down materially year-over-year for the second quarter we are beginning to see miles driven increase.
Declining prices at the pump has benefited our customers especially those most financially strapped.
The lower end consumer benefits the most from lower gas prices relative to income.
This trend is encouraging but we understand this is just one of the many factors that impact our business.
Our operating theme for 2015 is Wow! Every Customer Everywhere.
And our key priorities for the year are: one great people providing great service; two profitably growing our Commercial business; three leveraging the Internet; four leveraging technology to improve the customer experience while optimizing efficiencies; and five improving inventory availability.
On the Retail front last quarter under the Great People Providing Great Service theme we continued with our intense focus on improving execution.
Along with improvements to our product assortment we're incorporating more training tools to help our store AutoZoners provide trustworthy advice.
Training will continue to be a large effort for us at the store level.
Behind the scenes we have increased our technology investment and challenged ourselves to make sure our offerings are relevant across all shopping platforms.
We realize as customers have become much more tech and mobile savvy we have to have a sales proposition that touches all the ways they desire to interact with us.
It is imperative we continue to invest in both current and future technologies in order to drive sales growth across all businesses.
Additionally during the quarter we completed our second ever company-wide engagement survey.
We completed our first survey in the fall of 2012 and had terrific results.
This year our results were even better which is a great testament to our culture and to the terrific leaders we have on our team.
It is so encouraging that our AutoZoners not only know they work for a great organization but they are highly engaged in that work and feel proud to work for this great company we call AutoZone.
Our AutoZoners are the most valuable asset we have.
In regards to Commercial we opened 29 programs during the quarter and 90 year-to-date.
We expect to open approximately 300 programs this year versus 424 last year.
As we continue to improve our product assortment and availability and as we make other refinements to our offerings we expect that the sales potential will continue to increase.
Our results continue to provide us with confidence to be aggressive in adding additional resources and new programs to this important growth initiative.
We should also highlight another strong performance in return on invested capital as we were able to finish Q2 at 31.2%.
We are very pleased with this metric as it is one of the best if not the best in all of hard lines retailing.
However our primary focus has been and continues to be that we ensure every incremental dollar of capital that we deploy in this business provides an acceptable return well in excess of our cost of capital.
It is important to reinforce that we will always maintain our diligence regarding capital stewardship as the capital we invest is our investors' capital.
Before I pass the discussion over to Bill Giles to talk about our financial results I'd like to recognize our entire organization for their incredible effort to deliver another strong quarter of solid financial results while providing Wow! customer service to all of our customers.
Now here's Bill.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone.
To start this morning let me take a few moments to talk more specifically about our Retail Commercial and International results.
For the quarter total auto parts sales which includes our domestic Retail and Commercial businesses IMC our Mexico stores and our five stores in Brazil increased 7.6%.
Regarding macro trends during the quarter nationally unleaded gas prices started out at $2.82 a gallon and ended the quarter at $2.27 a gallon a $0.55 increase.
Last year gas prices increased $0.15 per gallon during the second quarter starting out at $3.29 and ending at $3.44 a gallon.
We continue to believe gas prices have a real impact on our customers' abilities to maintain their vehicles and as cost reductions help all Americans we hope to benefit from some increase in disposable income.
We also recognize that the impact of miles driven on cars over 10 years old the current average is much different than on newer cars in terms of wear and tear.
Miles driven increased 1% in November.
Data for December and January isn't currently available.
The other statistically highlight is the number of seven-year and older vehicles on the road which continues to trend in our industry's favor.
For the trailing four quarters total sales per AutoZone store were $1.753 million.
This statistic continues to set the pace for the rest of the industry.
For the quarter total Commercial sales increased 14.5%.
Commercial represented 17% of our total sales compared to 16% last year and grew $47 million over last year's second quarter.
We opened 29 new programs during the quarter versus 49 programs opened in our second quarter of last fiscal year.
We now have our Commercial program in 3 935 stores supported by 171 hub stores.
Approximately 1 100 of our programs are three years old or younger.
As Bill had mentioned earlier both our total Commercial sales and sales per program accelerated from the previous quarter's results.
While our average sales per program is below some peers in our industry we feel we are on the right track to methodically close that gap.
It's important to highlight that we accelerated our new program growth over the last few years as approximately 30% of our programs are younger than three years old these openings have impacted our average sales metric and cannibalized some of our older programs.
However our focus is on growing market share and improving our service levels by having more programs closer to our customers.
Looking specifically at our mature programs those at least five years old they grew in the mid-single-digit range this past quarter.
Additionally we still have significant opportunities to open additional programs over the next several years.
We feel good about the success we've had in profitably growing the Commercial business.
In summary we remain committed to our long-term growth strategy.
We believe the improvements we have made and upcoming additional improvements from our inventory availability initiatives enhance our prospects and we believe the addition of IMC will provide us with more avenues to service our Commercial customers very effectively.
We believe we are well positioned to grow this business and capture increased market share.
Our Mexico stores continued to perform well.
We opened five new stores during the second quarter.
We currently have 411 stores in Mexico.
As the U.S.
dollar strengthened this past quarter we did have an FX conversion headwind.
However we still delivered a solid U.S.
dollar equipment EBIT results and felt good about being able to handle the currency weakening in regard to the overall impact for the company's results.
We expect to open a similar number of stores in Mexico this fiscal year that we opened last year.
Our returns and profit growth continue to be in line with our expectations.
Regarding Brazil we are currently operating five stores.
We expect to open a few more stores over the next several months and then refine our offerings and prove that our concept works for our customers and is financially viable.
Once we refine our offerings and operations and evaluate the performance we will provide you with an update on our long-term growth plans.
Recapping this past quarter's performance for the company in total our sales were $2.144 billion an increase of 7.7%.
Domestic same-store sales or sales for stores opened more than one year were up 3.6% for the quarter.
Gross margin for the quarter was 52.2% of sales up 15 basis points.
The improvement in gross margin was attributable to higher merchandise margins partially offset by the impact from Interamerican Motor Corporation which was acquired during September 2014.
Looking forward we continue to believe there remains opportunity for merchandise gross margin expansion within both the Retail and Commercial businesses.
The pressure we will experience in the IMC business along with the rollout of further stores on more frequent deliveries from our distribution centers will continue to cause headwinds to our overall gross margin rate.
However our primary focus remains growing absolute gross profit dollars in our total auto parts segment.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 35.4% of sales 25 basis points higher than last year's second quarter.
The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of sales was due to higher incentive compensation impact from the IMC acquisition and self-insured employee medical costs.
Partially offsetting these items was a favorable credit card litigation settlement of $5.4 million recognized during the quarter.
While we have invested in several key initiatives that are customer service-related like training and systems upgrades we believe we are well positioned to manage our cost structure in response to our sales environment.
EBIT for the quarter was $361 million up 7.1% over last year's second quarter.
Our EBIT margin was down 10 basis points at 16.9%.
Interest expense for the quarter was $34.5 million compared with $39.5 million in Q2 a year ago.
Debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $4.4 billion or approximately $125 million more than last year's balance of $4.3 billion.
Our adjusted debt level metric finished the quarter at 2.5 times EBITDAR.
While on any given quarter we may increase or decrease our leverage metric based on management's opinion regarding debt and equity market conditions we remain committed to both our investment grade rating and our capital allocation strategy and share repurchases are an important element of that strategy.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 35.2% in line with last year's second quarter.
We expect our annual rate to be closer to 36.5% on an ongoing basis as the deviation in results this quarter like last year was primarily driven by the government tax credits reinstituted in December of 2014.
Net income for the quarter was $212 million up 9.8%.
Our diluted share count of 32.5 million shares was down 5% from last year's second quarter.
The combination of these factors drove earnings per share for the quarter to $6.51 up 15.6% over the prior year's second quarter.
Relating to the cash flow statement for the second fiscal quarter our operating cash flow was $101 million.
Net fixed assets were up 7.7% versus last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $93.8 million and reflected the additional expenditures required to open 44 new stores this quarter capital expenditures on existing stores hub store remodels work on development of new stores for upcoming quarters and Information Technology investments.
With the new stores open we finished this past quarter with 5 042 stores in 49 states the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico 411 stores in Mexico 18 IMC branches and five stores in Brazil for a total location count of 5 476.
Depreciation totaled $59.9 million for the quarter versus last year's second quarter expense of $58 million.
This is in line with recent quarter growth rates.
With our excess cash flow we repurchased $26 million of AutoZone stock in the second quarter.
At the end of the quarter we had $544 million remaining under our share buyback authorization and our leverage metric was 2.5 times.
Again I want to stress we manage to appropriate credit ratings and not any one metric.
The metric we report is meant as a guide only as each rating agency firm has its own criteria.
We continue to view our share repurchase program as an attractive capital deployment strategy.
Accounts payable as a percent of gross inventory finished the quarter at 107.5%.
The inclusion of IMC reduced the AP ratio by 170 basis points.
Next I'd like to update you on our inventory levels in total and on a per-store basis.
We reported an inventory balance of $3.5 billion up 12% versus the Q2 ending balance last year.
Increased inventory reflects the recent IMC acquisition new store growth and additional investments in coverage.
Inventory per store was up 7.1% at $631 000 per store reflecting our continued investments in hard parts coverage and the IMC acquisition.
The increase in inventory per store this quarter due to the IMC acquisition was $11 000 per store.
Finally as Bill previously mentioned our continued disciplined capital management approach resulted in return on invested capital for the trailing four quarters of 31.2%.
We have and will continue to make investments that we believe will generate returns that significantly exceed our cost of capital.
Now I'll turn it back to Bill Rhodes.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Bill.
We are pleased this morning to report our 34th consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth growing this quarter at a rate of 15.6%.
Our company has continued to be successful over the long run.
That success is attributable to our approach to leveraging our unique and powerful culture and focusing on the needs of our customers.
At the end of the day our customers have choices and we must innovate to ensure they turn to us for their vehicle solution needs.
As we continue to invest in our businesses and monitor the results from our ongoing inventory initiatives we are optimistic about our future.
We feel like we continue to be on the right track.
Again we are excited about our initiatives around inventory assortment supply chain solutions hub stores commercial growth Mexico ALLDATA e-commerce Brazil and now IMC.
Our long-term model is to grow new store square footage at a low-single-digit growth rate and we expect to continue growing our Commercial business at an accelerated rate.
Therefore we routinely look to grow our EBIT dollars in the mid-single-digit range or better in times of strength.
And we leverage our very strong and predictable cash flow to repurchase shares enhancing our earnings per share growth in the double digits.
We feel the track we are on will allow us to continue winning for the long run.
We believe our steady consistent strategy is correct.
It is the attention to details and consistent execution that will matter.
Our belief is solid consistent strategy combined with superior execution is a formula for success.
Our charge remains to optimize our performance regardless of market conditions and to continue to ensure we are investing in the key initiatives that will drive our long-term performance.
In the end delivering strong EPS growth and ROIC each and every quarter is how we measure ourselves.
We are pleased with our results this past quarter but we must remain committed to delivering on our strategic and financial objectives.
Now we'd like to open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
The first question today is from Alan Rifkin with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much and congratulations on another nice quarter guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> First question for Bill Rhodes concerns the delivery frequency program and increasing that.
Could you maybe just provide a little bit more color Bill as to when you think if the program goes according to your plan when peak spending to support the effort will occur? And maybe provide a little bit of color on the comp lifts that you're seeing to the stores that are supported already by the increase in frequency? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's a terrific question Alan and one that I don't want go in too in depth at this point in time.
And one of the reasons why is we've been testing this in I think 168 stores in five different markets and they're five very different geographies with different competitive sets and the like.
And our results generally have been good but some parts of them are still hard to read and that's why we decided to expand it by another over 300 stores.
And I think as we get the read on those stores over the third quarter and fourth quarter we will have a much better understanding to confirm that we're on the right track hopefully to confirm that they're actually performing better than the ones we've done to date.
It's just a little bit early.
Our expectation is once we make a decision we're going to come back to you all and we'll communicate it clearly and show you what we believe the financial implications are on the operating margins and gross margins and capital expenditures.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Is it reasonable to expect Bill that the frequency actually may vary depending on region where some stores may get deliveries three times a week and others will get deliveries as many as five times? Or are you going to do a unilateral approach across the board? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think at this point in time everything is still on the table.
We are testing three times we're testing five times we tested two times and clearly in some places you're going to be very close to the store.
So the cost of going five times is not as significant as if you're 500 miles away.
So I think we still have to determine those things and that's why we expanded it to another 300 plus stores in the last month.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And one follow-up if I may I believe you said that ALLDATA was slowing.
Can you maybe just provide a little bit more color as to what you are seeing there and what initiatives over the next 12 months are you going to take to reaccelerate that business? Yeah I mean ALLDATA continues to be the market leader in diagnostic repair software.
And so what we have seen is a little bit more competition in the marketplace and a little bit more pricing pressure on the product.
We continue to command a very large market share in that segment.
And our strategy over the next 12 months to 24 months is to continue to add enhancements to the product to service our customers better and add additional value.
Some of that will be through repair information confirmed repair information we put a community website up today as part of the repair product and that's been received very well.
So there's a lot of enhancements that we're making to our suite of products that we think over time will continue to create a larger stickiness with our customers and add more value.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much and good luck in the spring selling season.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All right.
Thanks.
Thank you Alan.
Thank you.
The next question is from John Lawrence with Stephens.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Bill would you comment – your comment on the dilution of the EBIT margin at IMC would you take a step further and if all these other initiatives on the rollout as far as multiple deliveries per week could over time offset some of that would that not be correct if you looked out to the completion of that project? Actually let me – I'll jump in John.
I would say probably not.
I would think of them differently.
IMC operates at a lower margin business than the overall AutoZone business does.
We think we can improve IMC's operating margin.
We think we can continue to grow that business but it will continue to operate at a lower margin than our overall company and therefore will create a little bit of dilution on our operating margin.
Now obviously when we anniversary that acquisition that occurred in September of 2014 then it won't be a year-over-year headwind per se.
Relative to delivery frequency the play there is really to add some additional cost into our operating cost structure in an effort to increase sales gain further market share and grow operating profit at a faster rate and so both of those will create a little bit of headwind from a pure operating margin rate standpoint.
But the objective obviously in both cases is to continue to provide better service and value to our customers be closer to our customers with inventory and be able to capture market share and grow operating profit.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
Congratulations.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
The next call is from Aram Rubinson with Wolfe Research.
Hi this is actually Chris Bottiglieri on for Aaron Rubinson.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Hey how are you? I'm good.
Thanks.
Very nice quarter.
Had just a quick question on the Commercial program growth so you took the growth down this year but obviously the sales were up nicely.
Maybe you could just kind of walk us through your thought process there and your desire to slow that down are your current inventory tests and field tests and delivery tests part of this? Is it to maybe realize that you grew too fast over the last couple of years or is it just kind of preserving capital to use it elsewhere in your business? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes great question.
I'll start with – it was our plan this year as we came into the year to slow down a little bit.
Remember what seven years ago we had 51% of the stores on the program.
We now have 78% of the stores on the program.
We don't have a vision that 100% of the stores will have the Commercial program but we do believe it will be significantly higher than it is today we just don't know the exact number.
The reason we slowed it down was one we're later in the lifecycle of the program openings.
But more importantly we really want to focus the organization more on growing mature programs and specifically growing our business with mature customers.
As we've opened so many these programs in the last four five years taken a lot of time and attention away from the existing programs it's also cannibalized the existing programs.
But this year we really wanted to recalibrate our focus and focus intensely on growing mature programs and mature customers.
And so far through the first six months that's having some nice benefits.
Okay.
That's great.
I'll pass it on to the next person.
Thanks for your time.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Bill you'd noted that you were seeing the initial payback with your mature customers.
Does that reflect the fact that they're seeing the benefit of the better in-stock positions? And then second what is the strategy for your top-down sales guys to become more aggressive and letting new accounts know about your greater commercial capabilities? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> A couple quick questions.
Thanks Dan.
On the sales force side we really started building a sales force about seven eight years ago now.
And I will tell you I am just – every time I ride with one of our salespeople every time I talk to our senior sales leaders I'm just remarkably impressed by the progress that we've made.
And unlike a lot of organizations where you put the salespeople out there to eat what you can kill our sales processes are very well defined and our team determines exactly where we want our salespeople to be the exact type of accounts and by the way the exact accounts that they want them to call on that week.
So part of what we've done is we've redirected some of their focus and efforts to the existing stores or the existing customers that we have.
And that's beginning to pay off which we are still calling on new customers but we really want to be focused on the ones that we have today.
And I'm sorry I forgot your first question.
Inc.</span></strong> Well it's just – I think you answered that that the initial payback with the mature customers that reflects the fact that you're able to say yes more often to their orders.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Really so far we've only seen one of the initiatives that we embarked on and that was the change in our algorithms that we made last year to put newer inventory function to the customer.
As we work on both this mega-hub approach and this delivery frequency approach that can have a material difference in our ability to say yes.
And it is more important with the – it's important on both the Commercial and DIY side.
With the Commercial customer calling me multiple times a day versus a DIY customer calling you a few times a year it's very important on the Commercial side.
Inc.</span></strong> And just one other question.
After you complete opening three additional distribution centers your total network is still about half the number of DC locations that your competitors have.
Do you see this as just an intermediate investment and that someday AutoZone may operate 20 plus distribution centers? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I would say at this point in time absolutely not.
We see this as the permanent solution.
That doesn't mean that we won't get smarter over time and decide we need to drop another DC in here.
But we have no vision of a 25 distribution center model.
Now that being said three years ago we didn't have a vision of going delivery frequency.
And as our business has changed and as the competitive landscape has changed we've had to modify our model.
But today we think that is the right long-term approach.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Simeon Gutman with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
This is Josh on for Simeon.
Just a question on gasoline prices.
Are you seeing a noticeable pickup from lower prices? And then on the weather front do you expect a pickup later on as a result of the colder weather right now? Yeah it's always difficult to really measure with any precision on that.
Clearly the lower gas prices we believe have been helpful.
And they certainty have probably contributed at some level to our comp I don't think significantly but they certainly have been helpful.
So we try to weigh in all the things between gas and tax refunds et cetera.
From a maintenance perspective we think that as we – obviously this has been a longer winter and it's dragging on but clearly spring will be here hopefully in the next couple of weeks and then we'll get back to our core maintenance categories and things like that.
And we expect those businesses to perform well.
So we'll have to get a little bit further down the road to look in the rearview mirror to see exactly what the impacts are of gas and whether.
But we expect it to be favorable in the spring.
Hey.
It's Simeon.
If I can just ask one follow-up.
Can you – I don't know if anyone asked this so I apologize if it's redundant.
The loyalty card can you talk about how helpful it's been to sales? Have you've been tracking it in terms of sign-ups in terms of wallet share in terms of driving traffic? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes Simeon.
As you know I guess we launched the first part of the loyalty program nine or 10 years ago and then we took it to the digital program probably seven years ago.
This past year we used to have different programs in different parts of the country.
This past year we went to one consolidated nationwide program and the program has worked very well since the beginning.
It continues to work well and it's growing although it's growing at a lower rate just because it's more mature.
Now there have been two of our competitors that have launched loyalty programs in the last year or so but both are different than ours.
So far we continue to be very help happy with our loyalty program and we continue to grow.
We haven't seen material changes in our loyalty acceptance rate versus where we were before.
Okay.
Nice quarter.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Seth Basham with Wedbush Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Can we take a step back and just think a little bit more about the long-term financial model? You continue to expect mid-single EBIT growth or better but it seems like you're investing a little bit more capital in DCs and whatnot and some of these acquisitions.
So longer term should we expect ROIC to continue to decline? Or is it going to be stable? How do you think about that? The way we really think about it is that and as Bill I think highlighted in his remarks we're very proud of the ROIC number that we have.
And we recognize that it's probably one of the highest in hardline retail.
At the same time we're very focused on investing in the initiatives that we believe will generate very strong returns and more importantly will capture market share and grow earnings.
So I think as we look at the model on a longer-term basis that we'll focus on those kinds of initiatives and they may or may not have some pressure on ROIC and bring it down a little bit.
But again we're focused on growing operating profit dollars capturing market share and investing in activities that generate very strong returns.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah can I add to that too? If we held ourselves to a standard where we wouldn't make investments unless they were at 32% return on invested capital we wouldn't do a lot of things that would be very important to our business and would frankly put ourselves at a competitive disadvantage.
That's why we've held to this long-term internal hurdle rate and it's worked very well.
Remember when we implemented the internal hurdle rate our ROIC was around 20% so we've been able to grow it over time by being very disciplined but at the same time we can't hold single initiatives to a 30%-plus return.
Inc.</span></strong> That makes perfect sense.
If you look at the portfolio of initiatives you have right now how do you think about them in a rank order in terms of the ROIC potential whether it be IMC whether it be delivery frequency mega hubs inventory additions et cetera? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I would say the first and foremost biggest short-term to medium-term opportunity is just growing the Commercial business.
It's a very low capital required to grow that business so anything that we can do enhance our sales force continue to improve our execution that is by far and away the single biggest way to drive ROIC.
I think most of the other initiatives based upon our modeling today would be slightly dilutive to return on invested capital but they have very good returns and they're going to accelerate the growth of operating profit dollars which is one of our objectives.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thanks a lot guys and good luck.
Thank you.
The next question is from Christopher Horvers with JPMorgan.
Hi.
It's actually Mark Becks on for Chris.
I just wanted to sharpen the pencil on the trend.
You mentioned your core business was up 200 basis points on a two-year rolling basis.
Outside of the 50 basis point contribution from tax refunds is it safe to say the remainder is what you view as sustainable? I guess I'm just trying to get a sense of how you view the underlying growth rate of the industry versus potential share gains in the moving pieces with gas and whether.
Yeah I think that well first of all I think to some extent gas is probably a more longer-term one.
I mean obviously we're going to get some increases in gas prices.
But on a relative basis they will be well below last year.
And I suspect that they will continue to be so for at least the immediate future.
Relative to tax refunds you're right.
As we called out we think that maybe that was 100 basis points of impact on Q2.
We'll have a better feel for that as we move our way through Q3.
And then excluding that I think that the way we look at it is that that really is the underlying core trends of the business.
Okay.
If I look at DIY historically it's been kind of a 1% 2% growth business and obviously that's with the benefit inflation which you're not seeing right now.
Is there anything structurally changing with the industry or are maybe your thoughts on just the outlook for the Retail business in general? I don't think that we see anything necessarily structurally changing in the business.
If you look at the competitive landscape from a pricing promotional activity even from a capital investment perspective it continues to be pretty consistent and rational industry overall and you are right.
We have not been the beneficiary of inflation over the last almost at this point I'd say 18 plus months maybe pushing 24 months and it doesn't appear as though there's a lot of inflation in the horizon either.
There's a couple of categories here and there that have some inflation but for the most part we've been generating these sales out of a no inflation kind of environment.
So it really is the strength of the customer the strength of our offering that was really driving that.
Great.
And then a follow-up to Alan's question on the expanded daily delivery frequency your 10% of your stores now if you were to flip the switch and roll it out to a greater number is there anything in terms of a particular stretch that you'd be able to do to add to a greater number of stores? Or how would you think about the timing of that growth? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think it's still yet to be determined.
We just went over and implemented 300 stores.
Obviously that's the biggest thing that we've done at this point in time.
We did it over about three weeks and so far it's gone pretty well but there have to be a tremendous amount of efforts in the distribution centers to ramp up for that increase of activity both inside the warehouse and in the transportation team.
So we'll learn from this newest rollout and will plan for future wins but more importantly now we got about 500 stores on the program and we are hopeful that we can quickly confirm our expectations today.
Okay.
And one quick follow-up to that.
Given the potential for increased CapEx should you continue to roll this out do you think that would meaningfully alter your philosophy on share buybacks going forward? It won't alter our philosophy at all.
I mean we believe that it is a great way to add value back to our shareholders and return capital back to the shareholders through the share repurchase program.
We've been very disciplined about it.
We operate at a very defined credit metric and will continue to do so.
Great.
Best of luck.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Greg Melich with Evercore ISI.
Hi thanks.
I had two questions.
First was how many stores now have the extended IMC inventory? So I think it was the 300 with the added inventory but how many of those or is it a different group that had the IMC? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> A different group.
It's under 10.
It's just a handful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah we've been doing this for six weeks or seven weeks so far Greg.
And we did a lot of work around the systems piece but even now at this point in time we're muscling it.
We're just trying to get a sense for it.
So far we've been really encouraged.
Very early days.
Okay.
So then switching to CapEx and cash flow a little bit if my math is right you'll be opening or doing 100 Commercial programs each of the next two quarters? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah roughly.
That's about right yeah.
And then with given everything that you've talked about what's sort of CapEx run rate? Should we look at the last six months as sort of a normal thing now to get all the initiatives done that you've talked about? I would say it's probably about that.
We're certainly going to be right around about a $500 million number or so I think on an annualized basis.
So it'll be a little bit of a step-up but not significantly.
And on the AP to inventory ratio it seems like that came down.
Was there any sort of timing issues there? Or again just given everything you're doing on inventory that could be – we might see that effect kind of stick around for a little bit? I think the latter.
I think that hopefully we were somewhat consistent two or three quarters ago when we began to add more inventory and we tried to call out that that will put a little bit of pressure on AP to inventory when you fast-forward three quarters or four quarters and here we are.
So it was certainly down this quarter.
We don't anticipate it going down further necessarily for the next two quarters but expect it to hang around that kind of number.
Great.
Good job.
Good luck guys.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Hi guys.
Nice quarter this is Chandni Luthra on behalf of Matt Fassler.
I just have two quick ones.
Could you give us the contribution of IMC to your SG&amp;A? I think we said that it was probably around 15 basis points.
I would say all three of those categories that we identified accounted for about 45 basis points...
Okay.
Got it.
And then just to get some clarity on the recent cold weather particularly Northeast region.
Did it help? And what we're trying to basically gauge is would the Northeast results have been any worse without the cold snap? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Are you talking about the most recent cold snap? They weren't...
Yes.
I mean basically the last month or so.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
So about half of that was in our results.
But remember the cold snaps – as you get later in the winter the cold snaps are more of a headwind than they are a benefit.
Early in the season it spurs activity of people trying to get their vehicles ready for the winter.
What happens late in the winter most of the parts that were going to fail have already failed and frankly customers have winter fatigue and they're not doing things getting ready for the winter.
So they're generally not beneficial later in the year or later in the season as they are (56:59).
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
And that concludes the question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Rhodes for any closing comments.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Right.
Before we conclude the call I'd like to take a moment to reiterate that we have a long and strong heritage of consistent impressive performance.
While we are excited about our growth prospects for the year we will not take anything for granted as we understand our customers have choices.
We have a solid plan to succeed this fiscal year but I want to stress this is a marathon and not a sprint.
As we continue to focus on the basics and focus on optimizing long-term shareholder value we are confident AutoZone will continue to be very successful.
Thank you for participating in today's call.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the AutoZone Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session of the conference.
Please be advised today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
The conference call will discuss AutoZone's third quarter financial results.
Bill Rhodes the company's Chairman President and CEO will be making a short presentation on the highlights of the quarter.
The conference call will end promptly at 10:00 A.M Central Time or 11:00 A.M.
Eastern Time.
Before Mr.
Rhodes begins the company has requested that you listen to the following statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Certain statements contained in this presentation are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use words such as believe anticipate should intend plan will expect estimate project position strategy and similar expressions.
These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends current conditions expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including without limitation credit market conditions the impact of recessionary conditions competition product demand the ability to hire and retain qualified employees consumer debt levels inflation weather raw material costs of our suppliers energy prices war and the prospect of war including terrorist activity the availability of consumer transportation construction delays access to available and feasible financing and changes in laws or regulations.
Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year August 30 2014 and these risk factors should be read carefully.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Good morning and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone's 2015 third quarter conference call.
With me today are Bill Giles Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer IT and ALLDATA and Brian Campbell Vice President-Treasurer (sic) [Vice President-Treasury] Investor Relations and Tax.
Regarding the third quarter I hope you've had an opportunity to read our press release and learn about the quarter's results.
If not the press release along with slides complementing our comments today is available on our website www.autozoneinc.com.
Please click on quarterly earnings conference calls to see them.
To begin this morning I want to thank all AutoZoners for delivering another solid quarter.
Our primary focus this quarter was to continue and expand our different delivery models open two additional mega hub stores and closely monitor the performance of these ongoing tests.
We've made good progress on these tests and now have just over 900 stores receiving increased deliveries intra-week or 18% of our domestic store base and we now have four mega hubs in operation.
In recent years we've diversified our portfolio somewhat with an emphasis on building additional legs of growth for the future.
Our retail domestic business which generates approximately 70% of our revenues performed well in Q3 and while our growth slowed modestly from last quarter we continue to see opportunities for future growth in both store count and same store sales.
Secondly our commercial domestic business which has been growing sales by double-digits since 2010 continued its growth in Q3 and continues to represent a significant opportunity for us.
Regarding our international operations we've been doing business in Mexico since late 1998 and our model has proven to work quite well.
In Brazil we opened two additional locations and our sales continued to grow nicely.
As with other international companies the strengthening dollar has negatively impacted our U.S.
dollar earnings from these operations recently.
Even with this volatility we're comfortable continuing to open stores at our current pace.
Our Internet businesses AutoZone.com and AutoAnything continue to grow well generally consistent with our expectations.
ALLDATA which is the leading diagnostic and repair information business in the United States continues to perform well.
However that business is more mature and coupled with increased competition has experienced more nominal growth.
And finally IMC an imports parts specialist that we acquired last fall continued with its integration process where we're working to expand their footprint of branches and where we're working to leverage their inventory assortment across the AutoZone domestic store base.
This past quarter our U.S.
retail business expanded with the opening of 27 net new stores.
We also opened 72 net new commercial programs.
We've a commercial program in 79% of our domestic stores having opened approximately 750 new programs in just the past two years.
Additionally we opened seven stores in Mexico during the quarter.
In Brazil we opened two additional stores and operated seven stores at the end of the quarter.
We expect to open a couple of additional stores over the next few months.
We currently have 8% of our total stores outside of the United States.
We believe we have growth opportunities on a variety of fronts in the U.S.
and outside the U.S.
for many years to come.
The cadence of sales this quarter showed much weaker performance at the beginning of the quarter offset by stronger performance during the last two reporting periods.
These results were not unexpected to us.
If you recall during our conference call last quarter we discussed how income tax refunds were issued earlier this year following in the last two weeks of the second quarter.
We believe approximately 100 basis points of same store sales were pulled forward which benefited our 3.6% reported comp last quarter.
After the tax refund cadence normalized our sales results improved as expected.
Regarding merchandise categories our failure categories continued to do well outpacing both maintenance and discretionary categories.
This was opposite of last quarter and a little unique considering we were hoping the lower gas prices at the pump coupled with the spring season would lead to accelerating growth.
Our belief is that the late winter storms in the first few weeks of the quarter coupled with accelerated tax refunds led to a later start to the spring maintenance season.
Regarding regional performance the west and the east did a little better than the central part of the country.
Much of this can be attributed to the precipitation we experienced in these areas.
We felt we finished the quarter in good shape to start our summer selling season with our stores looking great and our inventory assortment better than it's ever been.
I should say one last thing regarding the income tax refund discussion I mentioned earlier.
From a report issued by the Treasury Department the amount of refund dollars were just about identical with last year's totals.
However it was the pronounced shift to initiating refunds two weeks earlier this year that was new.
We believe this was the large reason for the start of our quarter being a little weaker and we believe our last quarter sales represented more normalized levels.
Overall we were pleased with our sales performance in Q3 and we're optimistic about the sales environment heading into our fourth quarter.
Inventory levels increased over last year's Q3 approximately 6% on a per-location basis.
This was in line with our expectations as we have implemented several tactics over the past year to improve our hard parts coverage and to place inventory closer to our customers.
We anticipate that inventory levels will remain relatively flat in Q4.
Additionally the IMC acquisition has increased our inventory per store across the chain by about $13 000.
IMC branches carry approximately 10 times the inventory per location that an average AutoZone store carries but their sales volumes on a per-location basis are materially higher as well.
As we discussed on the last several quarterly calls we have several initiatives to improve our inventory coverage and our ability to say yes to our customers both retail and commercial more frequently.
We're continuing to expand our initiative around replenishing stores on a more frequent basis from our distribution centers.
Traditionally the vast majority of our stores were replenished once per week.
At the end of the quarter we had more than 500 stores that were being replenished between three times and five times a week the majority of which began in Q3.
Based on our results to-date and to provide us with additional data to determine our long-term strategy we added more than 350 additional stores to this program in just the last few weeks.
This brings our total store count of stores receiving additional deliveries per week to well over 900 stores.
We are seeing a lift in sales.
However we have yet to definitively determine the ultimate benefit nor we determine the optimal frequency.
So consistent with past test and given the magnitude of change we will methodically test and carefully measure our results.
In order to replenish our stores on a more frequent basis it will require increased operating expenses and capital expenditures primarily for two to three additional distribution centers.
Our modeling to-date based on current results indicates that while it is dilutive to gross and operating margins it is sufficiently additive to operating profit dollars over the long-term.
We've been pleased with our learnings to-date and are encouraged to continue to expand more stores under the program to better evaluate our results.
Additionally I want to update you on our mega hub stores.
As a reminder our stores are supported by approximately 173 hub stores with an expanded assortment.
While our traditional hub store carries between 35 000 SKUs and 50 000 SKUs our mega hubs typically more than double the hub stores' SKU assortment.
With these substantially expanded product assortments our mega hubs leverage those increased product assortments across other hub networks providing stores across a very large geography access to this broad assortment.
Along with the two older locations we opened two additional mega hubs this past quarter.
We're planning on opening one additional mega hub location in the fourth quarter.
Based on our results to-date we've begun to identify the next set of mega hub locations and are in various stages of developing these stores.
Assuming our findings are confirmed by the more recent mega hub openings we will develop a long-term strategy to roll out these mega hubs to provide service to the majority of our domestic stores.
All of our inventory availability initiatives are designed to significantly increase our ability to meet our customers' needs.
As our commercial business has grown and as our aspirations for this business are quite high and our DIY customers' needs increase our need for expanded assortments of quality products at the right price continues.
This has been important and difficult work and I want to stress we are still learning.
While we are encouraged by these initiatives before moving more aggressively we need to have solid evidence of the long-term ramifications to our business and we need to ensure these initiatives are the appropriate course of action.
At this point we are encouraged with our findings but there are examples of inconsistent performance between markets and initiatives and we need more time and more test results to determine our ultimate strategy.
Lastly around our inventory initiatives we're in the early stages of expanding our direct import capabilities.
Although we currently have an active program we believe that it can be significantly expanded by developing more internal capabilities.
We've completed significant research and have now developed a new global sourcing strategy and that strategy which includes opening our first offshore sourcing office is in the implementation phase.
Now I'll take a moment to discuss our recently completed acquisition of Interamerican Motor Corporation doing business in the marketplace as IMC.
IMC is the second largest distributor of OE quality import replacement parts in the United States.
They specialize in parts coverage for European and Asian cars.
While considerably smaller than the number one participant in the industry IMC now with 18 branches offers an impressive growth opportunity for us not just because of the parts coverage but also because of the strong management team.
While it's still early in the process I will mention our plans include opening more IMC branches and incorporating their parts catalog into our AutoZone Z-net parts catalog.
We will continue to go to market as IMC and we expect to open several new IMC locations over the next 12 months.
We acquired IMC in September and the rate of integration and expansion has been encouraging to-date.
Thus far we've made the IMC catalog available to over 500 AutoZone locations.
While many of these 500 locations recently added the ordering capabilities from IMC we've seen a sales lift in these stores' commercial sales programs that encourages us that our assumptions on the sales lift to AutoZone from cross-selling were correct if not even conservative.
Additionally IMC added one new branch and several others are in the development pipeline.
Finally we relocated the IMC East Coast distribution center which allows greater access to more sizeable markets.
Let me stress the IMC brand is very important to us.
We will grow the brand and its presence in the future in many more markets than it is in today.
IMC has been in a growth mode recently and has built an infrastructure to support a substantially larger footprint.
It currently doesn't enjoy the operating margins that we experienced.
So it lowers our overall EBIT margins by approximately 40 basis points on an annual basis.
We're very excited to have the great IMC team as part of our organization and we're very optimistic about our future together.
We continue to see synergies moving forward.
Now let's turn to our third quarter overall results.
Our sales increased 6.5% and our domestic same store sales were up 2.3%.
Both retail and commercial experienced positive same store sales growth.
While our same store sales were negative the first few weeks of the quarter due in our belief mainly to a shift in the income tax refunds the remaining weeks improved.
That consistency was across all regions of the country.
We believe we continue to benefit from macro tailwinds our work on inventory availability initiatives and solid execution.
Regarding traffic versus ticket in the DIY business traffic was negative while ticket was positive.
In line with weekly sales performance our traffic accelerated at the end of the quarter versus the beginning.
Our average ticket grew generally consistent with the first and second quarters when it returned to more normalized levels after about a year of subdued growth.
The hard parts additions we've added to our stores have helped ticket growth.
While improvements in product quality have pressured traffic over the last couple of decades the technology advancements have significantly increased the price of the products we sell.
We've been managing through this phenomenon as mentioned for over two decades and expect to continue to do so.
We opened 72 new commercial programs in the quarter versus 137 programs in the comparable period last year.
We now have the commercial program in 79% of our domestic store base.
Our commercial sales excluding IMC were up 11.4% this quarter.
While our productivity per program was nicely positive it did not increase as much as last quarter.
Much like our retail business our commercial business did slow in the first few weeks of the quarter but finished more in line with our expectations.
We've intensified our focus on mature program growth and specifically mature customer growth and it was encouraging to see the improvements that began in Q1 and Q2 continue into Q3 although those improvements were muted in the first few weeks of the quarter as well.
Finally our older programs those greater than five years old continued to grow in the mid single-digit range.
Regarding Mexico we opened seven stores this quarter and we added two stores in Brazil.
Sales in our other businesses for the quarter were up 6.5% over last year's third quarter.
As a reminder ALLDATA and e-commerce which include AutoZone.com and AutoAnything make up this segment of sales.
Regarding online sales there continued to be great opportunities for growth on both a business-to-business basis and to individual customers or B-to-C.
While these businesses are small for us at just 4% of our total sales mix on the quarter we're seeing these businesses grow at a faster rate than our brick-and-mortar businesses.
With the continued aging of the car population and with gas prices on average down materially year-over-year for the third quarter miles driven increased 3.9% year-to-date through February.
Declining prices at the pump have benefited our customers especially those most financially stressed (17:57).
The lower end customer benefits the most from lower gas prices relative to income.
This trend is encouraging but we understand this is just one of many factors that impact our business.
While gas prices have increased more recently prices are still around $1 a gallon below last year.
Our operating theme for 2015 is Wow! Every Customer Everywhere and our key priorities for the year are great people providing great service profitably growing our commercial business leveraging the Internet leveraging technology to improve the customer experience while optimizing efficiencies and finally improving inventory availability.
On the retail front last quarter under the great people providing great service theme we continued with our intense focus on improving execution.
Along with improvements to our product assortment we're incorporating more product content and information to help our store AutoZoners provide trustworthy advice.
Delivering product quality features and benefits content through training and in Z-net continues to be a major effort for us at the store level.
Behind the scenes we continue to increase our technology investments and challenge ourselves to make sure our offerings are relevant across all shopping platforms.
We realize as customers have become much more tech and mobile savvy we have to have a sales proposition that supports all the ways they desire to connect with us.
It is imperative we continue to invest in both current and future technologies in order to drive sales growth across all of our businesses.
Over time we will update you on the rollout of these technologies and how they help us interact with our customers and their vehicles more effectively.
As our competition continues to innovate we understand our ability to both maintain and gain market share will require us to have great-looking stores higher in-stock levels and most importantly more knowledgeable AutoZoners to help customers than even what is available today.
While we are gaining share we need to be even better.
The biggest link to all of this is our people.
As you have to have the right merchandise at the right price in great looking convenience stores real differentiation comes from our AutoZoners meeting and exceeding our customers' wants needs and desires.
Our AutoZoners are the most valuable asset we have in differentiating us in the eyes of our customers.
In regards to commercial we opened 72 programs during the quarter and 162 programs year-to-date.
As we expect to open approximately 300 programs this year versus 424 programs last year we will have a busy fourth quarter.
We're on track thus far.
As we continue to improve our product assortments and availability and as we make other refinements to our offerings we expect that our sales growth potential will continue to increase.
Our results continue to provide us with confidence to be aggressive in adding additional resources and new programs to this important growth initiative.
We should also highlight another strong performance and return on invested capital.
As we were able to finish Q3 at 31.1% we're very pleased with this metric as it is one of the best if not the best in all of hardlines retailing.
However our primary focus has been and continues to be that we ensure every incremental dollar of capital that we deploy in this business provides an acceptable return well in excess of our cost of capital.
It is important to reinforce that we will always maintain our diligence regarding capital stewardship as the capital we invest is our investors' capital.
Before I pass the discussion over to Bill Giles to talk about our financial results I'd like to recognize and thank every AutoZoner for this past quarter's effort to provide Wow! customer service to all of our customers.
Now here's Bill.
Information Technology and ALLDATA</strong> Thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone.
To start this morning let me take a few moments to talk more specifically about our retail commercial and international results.
For the quarter total auto parts sales which includes our domestic retail and commercial businesses IMC our Mexico stores and our seven stores in Brazil increased 6.5%.
And regarding macro trends during the quarter nationally unleaded gas prices started out at $2.27 a gallon and ended the quarter at $2.69 a gallon a $0.42 increase.
And last year gas prices increased $0.29 per gallon during the quarter starting at $3.38 and ending at $3.67 a gallon.
We continue to believe gas prices have a real impact on our customers' ability to maintain their vehicles and as cost reductions help all Americans we hope to benefit from some increase in disposable income.
We also recognized that the impact of miles driven on cars over 10 years old the current average is much different than on newer cars in terms of wear and tear.
Miles driven increased 4.9% in January and 2.8% in February.
We don't have March or April data yet.
The other statistic we highlight is the number of seven-year and older vehicles on the road which continues to trend in our industry's favor.
For the trailing four quarters total sales per AutoZone store were $1 761 000.
This statistic continued to set the pace for the rest of the industry.
For the quarter total commercial sales increased 11.4%.
Commercial represented 18% of our total sales compared to 17% last year and grew $46 million over last year's Q3 an almost identical dollar growth to last quarter's $47 million improvement.
We opened 72 new programs during the quarter versus 137 programs opened in our third quarter of last fiscal year; we now have our commercial program in 4 007 stores supported by 173 hub stores.
Approximately 1 100 of our programs are three years old or younger.
As Bill had mentioned earlier both our total commercial sales and sales per program accelerated from the previous quarter's results.
While productivity per program is lower than several of our peers we have a much younger program base.
Being able to increase sales approximately $50 million for the quarter year-over-year is allowing us to close that sales gap.
Our focus is on growing market share and improving our service levels by having more programs closer to our customers and we are consistently making progress.
Looking specifically at mature programs those at least five years old they grew in the mid single-digit range this past quarter slightly slower than last quarter.
However the first few weeks of the quarter for commercial were muting our productivity growth.
Additionally we still have significant opportunities to open additional programs over the next several years.
In summary we remain committed to our long-term growth strategy.
We believe the improvements we have made and upcoming additional improvements from our inventory availability initiatives enhanced our prospects and we believe the addition of IMC will provide us with more avenues to service our commercial customers very effectively.
We believe we are well-positioned to grow this business and capture increased market share.
Our Mexico stores continue to perform well.
We opened seven new stores during the third quarter.
We currently have 418 stores in Mexico.
As the U.S.
dollar strengthened this past quarter we did have an FX conversion headwind.
However we still delivered a solid U.S.
dollar equivalent EBIT result and felt good about being able to handle the currency weakening in regard to the overall impact of the company's results.
We expect to open a similar number of stores in Mexico this fiscal year that we opened last year about 40 stores.
Our returns and profit growth continue to be in line with our expectations.
Regarding Brazil we opened two new stores and now have seven total locations.
We are committed to our prudent pace of development customers are embracing our offering and sales results continue to climb.
While still not profitable we're beginning to close the gap.
While it is easy to envision several hundred stores in Brazil over time currently our strategy is to open a few more stores over the next several months and then refine our offerings and prove that our concept works for our customers and is financially viable.
Once we refine our offerings and operations and evaluate the performance we will provide you with an update on our long-term growth plans.
Recapping this past quarter's performance for the company in total our sales were $2.493 billion an increase of 6.5%.
Domestic same store sales or sales for stores opened more than one year were up 2.3% for the quarter.
Gross margin for the quarter was 52.3% of sales up 29 basis points.
The improvement in gross margin was attributable to higher merchandise margins partially offset by the impact from Interamerican Motor Corporation which was acquired during September of 2014.
Looking forward we continue to believe there remains opportunity for merchandise gross margin expansion within both the retail and commercial businesses.
The pressure we will experience from the IMC business along with the rollout of further stores and more frequent deliveries from our distribution centers will continue to cause headwinds to overall gross margin rate.
Our primary focus remains growing absolute gross profit dollars in our total auto parts segment.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 31.64% of sales 12 basis points higher than last year's third quarter.
The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of sales was primarily due to the impact from the IMC acquisition.
While we have invested in several key initiatives that are customer service related like training and systems upgrades we believe we are well-positioned to manage our cost structure in response to our sales environment.
EBIT for the quarter was $514 million up 7.3% over last year's third quarter.
Our EBIT margin was up 16 basis points at 20.6%.
Interest expense for the quarter was $31.8 million compared with $36.2 million in Q3 a year ago.
Debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $4.533 billion or approximately $160 million more than last year's balance of $4.378 billion.
Our adjusted debt level metric finished the quarter at 2.5 times EBITDAR.
While in any given quarter we may increase or decrease our leverage metric based on management's opinion regarding debt and equity market conditions we remain committed to both our investment-grade rating and our capital allocation strategy; and share repurchases are an important element of that strategy.
For the quarter our tax rate was approximately 35.9% above last year's third quarter.
We expect our annual rate to be closer to 36.5% on an ongoing basis.
Net income for the quarter was $309 million up 8.4%.
Our diluted share count of 32.3 million was down 4.2% from last year's third quarter.
The combination of these factors drove earnings per share for the quarter to $9.57 up 13.1% over the prior year's third quarter.
Relating to the cash flow statement for the third fiscal quarter our operating cash flow was $523 million.
Net fixed assets were up 7.3% versus last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $107 million and reflected the additional expenditures required to open 37 new stores this quarter capital expenditures on existing stores hub store remodels work on development of new stores for upcoming quarters and information technology investments.
With the new stores opened we finished this past quarter with 5 069 stores in 49 states District of Columbia and Puerto Rico 418 stores in Mexico 18 IMC branches and seven stores in Brazil for a total location count of 5 512.
Depreciation totaled $62.3 million for the quarter versus last year's third quarter expense of $58 million.
This is in line with recent quarter growth rates.
With our excess cash flow we repurchased $515 million of AutoZone stock in the third quarter.
At the end of the quarter we have $778 million remaining under our share buyback authorization and our leverage metric was 2.5 times.
Again I want to stress we managed appropriate credit ratings and not any one metric; the metric we report is meant as a guide only as each rating firm has its own criteria.
We continue to view our share repurchase program as an attractive capital deployment strategy.
Accounts payable as a percent of gross inventory finished the quarter at 110.9%.
The inclusion of IMC reduced the AP ratio by about 174 basis points.
Next I'd like to update you on our inventory levels in total and on a per store basis.
We reported an inventory balance of $3.5 billion up 10.7% versus Q3 ending balance last year.
Increased inventory reflects the recent IMC acquisition new store growth and additional investments and coverage.
Inventory per store was up 6% at $629 000 per location reflecting our continued investments in hard parts coverage and the IMC acquisition.
The increase in inventory per store this quarter due to the IMC acquisition was $12 700 per store.
Finally as Bill previously mentioned our continued disciplined capital management approach resulted in return on invested capital for the trailing four quarters of 31.1%.
We have and will continue to make investments that we believe will generate returns that significantly exceed our cost of capital.
Now I'll turn it back to Bill Rhodes.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Bill.
We are pleased this morning to report our 35th consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth growing this quarter at a rate of 13.1%.
Our company has continued to be successful over the long run.
That success is attributable to our approach to leveraging our unique and powerful culture and focusing on the needs of our customers.
At the end of the day our customers have choices and we must innovate to ensure they turn to us for their vehicle needs.
We will continue to invest in our businesses and monitor the results from our ongoing inventory initiatives.
As we have tested multiple delivery frequency models financial results have been inconclusive as to which format makes the most sense.
There are incremental costs to more frequent deliveries and we have to make sure we develop the appropriate long-term solutions because many of these additional costs will virtually become fixed costs.
We are moving forward with our mega hub store concept.
As you can see we've got lots of exciting things going on.
Along with our inventory assortment our initiatives around commercial growth Mexico ALLDATA e-commerce Brazil and now IMC are all just getting started.
Our long-term model is to grow new store square footage at a low single-digit growth rate and we expect to continue growing our commercial business at an accelerated rate.
Therefore we look to routinely grow EBIT dollars in the mid single-digit range or better in times of strength.
And we leverage our very strong and predictable cash flow to repurchase shares enhancing our earnings per share growth into double-digits.
We feel the track we're on will allow us to continue winning for the long-term.
We believe our steady consistent strategy is correct.
It's the attention to details and consistent execution that will matter.
Our belief this solid consistent strategy combined with superior execution is a formula for success.
Our charge remains to optimize our performance regardless of market conditions and continue to ensure we're investing in the key initiatives that will drive our long-term performance.
In the end delivering strong EPS growth and ROIC each and every quarter is how we measure ourselves.
We're pleased with our results this past quarter but we must remain committed to delivering on our strategic and financial objectives.
Now we'd like to open up the call for questions.
Our first question is from Seth Basham with Wedbush Securities.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> My first question is around your mega hub strategy.
It seems like you've developed more confidence in rolling out that strategy.
Can you give us some more color on what kind of lift you're seeing from mega hubs? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah first of all Seth thank you for the question.
I want to be careful about giving out too much specific information because we have two stores that have been on the program for a considerable amount of time.
We just rolled the other two locations in the last eight weeks or so.
I will tell you that those two locations are performing at or above our expectations so far so they are helping us build our confidence level.
But I don't want to get into specific sales performance indicators because there is some variability between them and there's two of them that are just so new.
But what I will tell you is we do have a higher degree of confidence in that that's why we're going forward with looking for additional sites.
And we are – it is certainly meeting or exceeding our financial expectations which means it's meeting our internal rate of return or better.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
Good to hear.
And then secondly as it relates to IMC you talked about the sales there meeting or exceeding expectations thus far.
What kind of assumptions do have there for your cross-selling lift? And do you expect to maintain that type of cross-selling lift as you expand that to more stores that are further from the IMC branches? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah it's going to be interesting over time and we're very early in this as well.
We started with eight stores on the program and we've now up to over 500 stores but many of those stores are very early in the process.
I think what we're learning so far is the stores that are very close to IMC locations are going to outperform those that are farther away; and there's certainly a big amount of our stores call it half of them that can be touched by an IMC location today but there's a bunch of them that would have to be serviced overnight.
So it's really early.
While we did have assumptions in our overall model and so far we're meeting or exceeding those assumptions but we've got a long way to go.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
Thanks and good luck.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All right.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning Bill.
You talked about the variability and the results from the new initiatives.
Does that reflect different levels of execution? Or is that just the inherent variability that AutoZone sees in a lot of its different businesses? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's a terrific question Dan.
I would say it's not about execution.
I've got to tell you what our team has done to roll out over 900 stores on multiple deliveries per week and really just over two quarters is pretty remarkable.
I guess there's 700 stores of them (38:00) just over the last couple of quarters is really remarkable.
And while we're still learning how to do it better they've almost flawlessly executed that so hats off to all the team that's worked on that.
One of the problems we have with this initiative is that we have elected to do many of the tests very close to the specific distribution centers.
It's easier it's cheaper lot of other reasons but because of that we have very small geographies that – where these tests are focused on and some of those geographies are going through different things in the marketplace that have nothing to do with delivery frequency.
So we're seeing very different results in certain markets and so that's why we keep expanding the test to try to broaden that slot so that we can make sure that we understand what the benefits of that are.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up question when you think about the benefits from the better parts coverage do you think you're getting a bigger benefit from the multiple shipments per week from the distribution centers? I think those are focusing on the faster turning SKUs or do you think you're going to get a bigger lift from the slower turning SKUs that you're adding to the other mega hubs? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I would say we definitely get a bigger lift from the frequency of delivery test which is focused on the SKUs that are in those local stores that are sorted there and making sure we have the right replenishment levels.
However the costs of that initiative are materially higher than they are on the mega hubs.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So a bigger sales lift but also higher expenses? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's much higher expenses.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Great.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All right.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Lawrence with Stephens Inc.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you and good morning Bill.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Would you comment a little bit about the global sourcing strategy.
I know it's very early but give us a sense of sort of that – the context of that process of using that type of strategy globally? Information Technology and ALLDATA</span></strong> Yeah thanks John.
We obviously today import a fair amount of product directly ourselves today and we use third parties in order to help us do that.
And we will continue to do so.
But what we really want to do is to be able to put ourselves in a position to increase that fairly significant over the next several years.
Though as Bill highlighted in his comments our expectation as I said we will put AutoZone resources overseas in a dedicated office that will allow us to be closer to the vendors and the manufacturers so that we can source with a broader net and improve our quality control et cetera.
So there's a lot of opportunities there on a long-term basis.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thanks.
Good luck.
Our next question is from Simeon Gutman with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
So a follow-up question on the mega hub and then how it relates to or how it fits into the puzzle of multiple delivery.
Are you expanding them meaning testing them so that the DC may not necessarily be the primary vehicle that's used for multiple delivery? And does the number of mega hubs mean that you won't have to use the DC as much? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah let me go into a little bit more depth to make sure that we're articulating it appropriately.
So think about a standard AutoZone store that carries 20 000 SKUs 22 000 SKUs.
When those SKUs are replenished that replenishment today comes from the distribution center and tomorrow if our test proves successful will still come from the distribution center but will come three times or five times a week.
When the SKU is not in that 22 000 SKU assortment today the AutoZoners in that store can go for that expanded assortment to a hub store which will take the 22 000 SKUs up to 35 000 SKUs to 50 000 SKUs.
Tomorrow if the mega hub continues to work if that hub store doesn't have it they can reach out for another 30 000 SKUs 40 000 SKUs to the mega hub store.
So the increased frequency of delivery is all about replenishment and the mega hub is all about increased access to additional parts coverage.
Does that make sense? Yeah no that's helpful.
So my follow-up is you have – you said as of today I think over 900 stores that are benefiting from some type of daily delivery.
What's the timeframe your best guess is how long some of your tests will keep running? And then once you arrive at some formula whether it's you decide certain stores will be two days three days five days or even once a week will you turn this on all at once? Or what would hold you back from once you figure out the formula from turning on the rest of the chain all at once? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's a fantastic question which means I wish I could answer it and I can't.
I would have thought we would have made this decision by now and would have articulated it to you.
But some of our results have been inconclusive.
And there's a lot of moving pieces here.
And as we said in our prepared comments this is a big decision and we at AutoZone are pretty methodical in how we make decisions.
This isn't about next year or year after this is about the long-term and so we want to make sure we get it right.
So we're going to take enough time to get it right.
And then as far as rollouts we've been pretty aggressive the last two quarters by rolling 350 stores 400 stores onto this program.
I don't know that we could go a lot faster than that.
We might be able to as we get deeper into it but it's not something that we would be able to roll out all at once nor is it something we need to roll out all at once.
I think you look at the way we've done things in the past whether that was the commercial new model that we rolled out or the hub store initiatives that we rolled out we like to get in a cadence do it where it's digestible and where we can execute it at a very high level so I suspect that's how we would roll it out.
Okay.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question is from Bret Jordan with BB&amp;T.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good morning.
Information Technology and ALLDATA</span></strong> Good morning.
A question on the global sourcing and I guess as you look at it is this going to increase your penetration with the Duralast mix? And I guess what does it do to supply chain? Does it add inventory because you own inventory further into the supply chain? And I guess is the strategy to pick up better pricing? Or is it to have better management of products quality? Information Technology and ALLDATA</span></strong> I think probably better opportunity to source from a broader selection of manufacturers and vendors.
It will have the opportunity to reduce pricing because we'll be able to go direct in many circumstances.
It likely will add a little bit of inventory just from the standpoint that you'll own it for a longer period of time in the process but we believe obviously there's the savings that we will achieve from the acquisition costs will far outweigh those carrying costs.
And then from a quality perspective it probably has some opportunity to improve the quality although we feel really good about the quality of our product today that we import.
So there's a little bit of opportunity there but probably not as much.
The real focus is going to be on the acquisition cost getting closer to the vendors and the manufacturers and improving the profitability of the company.
Will Duralast as a percentage of the inventory increase in this process? Or is it largely stable just better sourcing? Information Technology and ALLDATA</span></strong> I would say that if Duralast increases as a percent of our total it wouldn't be as a result of this initiative necessarily.
It's more about sourcing.
Okay.
And then one quick question on the e-commerce; you said it was growing faster than brick-and-mortar.
Is that traffic-driven increases or is that ticket-driven increases? Are you seeing any price pressures out there from people like RockAuto or is the market pretty stable? Information Technology and ALLDATA</span></strong> The market is somewhat stable from an online although it does continues to be somewhat promotional in nature.
From our vantage point it's really mostly traffic.
And so our traffic has continued to grow at double-digit kind of rates.
So we've experienced good traffic and it's a great source of information for our end customers.
Okay.
Thank you.
I appreciate it.
Information Technology and ALLDATA</span></strong> Okay.
Our next question is from Aram Rubinson with Wolfe Research.
Your line is open.
Hey there guys.
Good morning.
Two questions.
The first one just about the capital structure shares outstanding fell by 4.2% on a year-over-year basis the lowest that I've seen at least in our model.
Can you talk to us a little bit about the CapEx element that might be pressuring that? CapEx is higher as a percent of sales but talk a little bit about where you think that might max out? And also whether or not it's making you think about things differently on the rent-to-own calculation when you're building out some new stores? Thanks.
Information Technology and ALLDATA</span></strong> Yeah just to kind of – if you don't mind me going backwards it doesn't necessarily change our mind relative from a rent perspective.
We're obviously going to continue to prefer to own where we have those opportunities because we want to be in control of the asset and we think it's cheaper long-term.
I would say from the 4% element it is a little bit lower but you've seen it come down a little bit over time.
Some of that is stock price driven and so the cash flow generation that we have has been relatively consistent and the stock price has gone up along with the P/E so it's had a little bit of a natural dilution effect if you will from that perspective.
And from a CapEx perspective it continues to be a little bit of an increase in CapEx.
We had mentioned in previous calls it's likely that we would do an additional distribution center or two over the next couple of years so that will have some additional usage of CapEx certainly not in the numbers today.
And then AP to inventory ratio which has been a big benefit for us over the past several years has begun to moderate a little bit more.
And so as we have said before that our expectation is that our AP to inventory ratio will probably stay close to its current rate or a little better but it won't have the significant increases that it experienced two years or three years ago.
Does that help? Yeah thanks.
And just to follow-up the second question on the commercial really you've given us some statistics in terms of commercial penetration and growth.
Can you give us some more subjective elements in terms of whether that you've got customer service scores or retention out rates or anything internally that you can help us to get a sense that you're qualitatively gaining traction there would be great.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
One of the things we talked about probably more extensively on the last call was at the beginning of this fiscal year we made a shift.
We've been opening a tremendous amount of stores over the last three years or four years on the commercial program.
And with that our sales with our mature programs and specifically our mature customers were not performing as well as we would have liked.
So beginning kind of September 1 we really re-anchored our focus on those mature stores and mature customers and we've turned the tide not I would say marginally at this point in time but probably more encouragingly than we would have thought.
We still have a ways to go but I think that is one of the key metrics that's on the forefront of what we were looking at.
More subjectively I'd just say you think back seven years eight years ago when we went to this new commercial strategy our receptivity in the marketplace is just vastly different from people that we try to hire to customers that we go in and make sales calls.
Think back eight years ago we didn't have a sales force out telling our story.
Now we have a very robust and talented and well-trained sales force out there telling our story and it's making a meaningful difference in the marketplace on their receptivity to us.
And is it fair to say that the lift in sales that you're getting from the hubs and the mega hubs is that all attributable to the commercial side of the house? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No not at all.
Not at all.
It's probably slightly skewed to commercial but it's also very robust on the retail side.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Have a good day.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All right.
You too.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thanks a lot.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Matt.
I want to ask another question on global sourcing and then a quick follow-up.
Can you help us get a sense of the relative profitability of branded goods versus private label goods as they're currently sourced versus where you think having your own sourcing infrastructure overseas will take you? Information Technology and ALLDATA</span></strong> That's a good question and my expectation is that the further we penetrate into the global sourcing the narrower those numbers will get.
But I suspect it's a few hundred basis points when you take everything into consideration.
But you do have some additional cost as we mentioned earlier relative to owning the inventory for a longer period of time and frankly owning it end-to-end.
So there are some offsets but I would say that's probably a round number to use.
And if you think you're starting essentially at zero how much penetration do you think you could ultimately achieve with your own sourcing infrastructure? And to some degree would simply having an infrastructure in place be a good bargaining or negotiating tool for you to work with your costs with your current vendors? Information Technology and ALLDATA</span></strong> Yeah I think the way to think about it is that we've started this journey a long time ago and we do a fair amount of direct importing today.
And so it's not that we're starting from ground zero necessarily.
The merchandising team has been working on this for a long time and quite frankly today have done a great job of having a fair amount of direct importing.
However we think we can probably more than double what we're doing today and probably a little better than that over the next three years to five years.
So we're kind of in the third or fourth innings and working our way through.
My follow-up is on gas prices.
And Bill Rhodes you talked to the way the impact of gas played out kind of at a very high level versus expectations.
I know it's hard to attribute sales to individual sources but if you think about A the discretionary products that would sell when people have more money in their pockets and B the kind of products that ultimately get sold more of (53:25) due to miles driven going up whether it's in chemicals perhaps or I guess wear and tear would take a while.
Since gas prices have come down if you could not just restrict it to this past quarter but the past seven months eight months can you talk about that journey and how is that all you think you've seen that impact the business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think we've actually called it out on the last two specific discussions that we thought it was a net benefit.
It's not 5% benefit but in the 1% kind of range.
This quarter we didn't spend as much time on it although I think it's beneficial with a slight increase.
It's probably not as beneficial as it was the last quarter.
The real story this quarter was all about our first period and first four weeks of the quarter which were really really tough we expected them to be tough because of the 100 basis points that we mentioned last quarter we pulled forward.
But then those late winter storms particularly in the Deep South just really muted our growth.
Actually we were down pretty significantly so we were – that was the story of the quarter so the one we wanted to focus on in our remarks.
So the weather is kind of an additional factor above and beyond the tax issues that perhaps was not anticipated? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah and I would just say in those first few weeks Matt weather is always seasonal in the spring time.
But we were – it was the third quarter here.
We're sitting with six inches of snow in Memphis Tennessee.
That's not normal.
Got it.
Understood.
Thank you so much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All right.
Thank you.
Information Technology and ALLDATA</span></strong> Thank you Matt.
Our next question is from Michael Lasser with UBS Investment.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks a lot for taking my question.
Bill I was hoping you could size (55:08) the potential opportunity from both the mega hubs store rollout as well as increasing the frequency of replenishment.
So of that 22 000 SKUs that will see a benefit from the mega hub are you missing out like 10% of the time? Or is it more like 20%? And then how would you size the increasing frequency of replenishment as well? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think it's difficult for us right now to continue to size it.
Look we're doing close to $1.8 million per store on an annual basis.
These are not going to make that $2.5 million.
We could maybe pick up $1 000 $1 500 per store per week over time if these initiatives work but that's let's also remember the competitive landscape is not a stagnant place either.
People – this whole industry is chasing parts coverage parts availability and the ability to say yes because our customers need it.
As parts proliferation continues it's become a greater and greater challenge and frankly it's on the forefront of one of the ways we compete against each other.
But I don't know that we can sit here and say here's what the numbers going to be because the landscape is going to change over time.
Does the sales increase all come from being able to say yes more often? Or is there some element where the parts pros the folks in the stores feel a little bit more comfortable with what's available and then they can go out and sell the capabilities to the commercial relationships more aggressively? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah you're talking about really a halo effect there and clearly the confidence of our sales team on the commercial side of our counter folks on the DIY side that's certainly an element.
But I would say the bigger element of it is if a customer specifically a commercial customer is calling you six times or seven times a day if they see a noticeable increase in the amount of times that you say yes you're going to pick up more share with him.
Conversely if you're saying no more than your competitors said then you're going to be challenged.
So I think there certainly are halo effects.
That's hard to see in the data and hard to estimate over what time that's going to happen but we certainly think if there's an issue or a benefit there.
Okay.
And then last question on this line is what's the downside? Can a store become overwhelmed with too much inventory? Or does the complexity become a little greater when there's more availability? Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think the downside is what's the cost to get that last sale.
There is a lot of diminishing returns on putting inventory into locations.
Why don't we put 50 000 SKUs into the local store? Well because we can't afford to.
That's why we have a hub store that will aggregate the demand of 30 stores or 40 stores.
Same kind of issue with delivery frequency there is a lot of diminishing returns how much can you afford to get that last sale? Okay.
Thank you so much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All right.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> All right.
Before we conclude the call I hope you had a nice Memorial Day weekend and I look forward to updating you on our activities from the summer.
While we're excited about our growth prospects for the year we do not take things for granted as we understand our customers have choices.
Our competition is not standing still and we must continue to challenge ourselves to improve.
We have a solid plan to succeed this fiscal year but I want to stress this is a marathon not a sprint.
As we continue to focus on the basics and focus on optimizing long-term shareholder value we're confident AutoZone will continue to be very successful.
Thank you for participating in today's call and have a great week.
Thanks for participating in today's conference.
All lines may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the AutoZone Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session of the conference.
Please be advised today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
This conference call will discuss AutoZone's fourth quarter financial results.
Bill Rhodes the Company's Chairman President and CEO will be making a short presentation on the highlights of the quarter.
The conference call will end promptly at 10:00 A.M Central Time or 11:00 A.M.
Eastern Time.
Before Mr.
Rhodes begins the Company has requested that you listen to the following statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Certain statements contained in this presentation are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use words such as believe anticipate should intend plan will expect estimate project position strategy and similar expressions.
These are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends current conditions expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including without limitation credit market conditions the impact of recessionary conditions competition product demand the ability to hire and retain qualified employees consumer debt levels inflation weather raw material costs of our suppliers energy prices war and the prospect of war including terrorist activity the availability of consumer transportation construction delays access to available and feasible financing and changes in laws or regulations.
Certain of these risks are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 30 2014 and these risk factors should be read carefully.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for AutoZone's 2015 fourth quarter conference call.
With me today are Bill Giles Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer IT and ALLDATA and Brian Campbell Vice President-Treasurer Investor Relations and Tax.
Regarding the fourth quarter I hope you've had an opportunity to read our press release and learn about the quarter's results.
If not the press release along with slides complementing our comments today is available on our Web site www.autozoneinc.com.
Please click on quarterly earnings conference calls to see them.
To begin this morning I want to thank all AutoZoners across the globe for another solid quarter and year.
2015 was a very busy and productive year for us.
We continue to grow our business on a variety of front.
Our U.S retail business expanded again in 2015 with the opening of another 157 net new stores.
Our commercial business continues to gain traction growing sales 12.9% for the year with 296 net new programs open.
We now have the commercial program in 81% of our domestic stores having opened 720 new programs in just the past two years.
And we continue to expand our presence in Mexico where this quarter we celebrated the opening of our 441st store.
While opening no additional stores in Brazil this quarter we opened two for the year and now have seven stores in operation.
Lastly we opened three new IMC branches for the year.
We’ve a lot of runway to open future IMC location.
We currently have approximately 90% of our total Company sales coming from our domestic AutoZone stores.
We believe we have great growth opportunities inside and outside of the U.S for many years to come.
In 2015 we expanded our online offerings in both our traditional autozone.com and autozonepro.com Web sites as well as autoanything.
ALLDATA also continued its expansion in the year.
Along with these strategic investments we spent a lot of time on initiatives to drive our core domestic retail business.
DIY remains our number one priority.
Our DIY business continues to grow remains the largest portion of our sales and continues to generate tremendous returns.
We also see significant opportunities for new store growth and improved productivity in our existing stores.
As our commercial business continues to grow and is intertwined with our retail business we’ve continued to identify opportunities to optimize our inventory placement and distribution strategy in order to respond to the ever increasing challenge of parts proliferation in the industry.
Over the past two years we implemented new methodologies to improve our hard parts placement techniques in all stores.
We’ve been testing more frequent deliveries to our stores and expanded parts availability in the mega hub stores.
Additionally we’ve developed a new store prototype that significantly expands the hard parts holding capacity in our stores.
All new stores are now opening with this new prototype and we remodeled 93 of our most constrained stores.
These efforts have resulted in an increase in our store inventory levels.
They’ve also added incremental costs but sales have justified our investments and offered convincing proof that we’ve been on the right track.
Along with improving our local parts availability and assortment we continue to manage this organization to provide exceptional service for our customers provide AutoZoners with a great place to work with opportunities for advancement and ensure we do it on a profitable basis to provide strong returns for our shareholders.
We will be holding our national sales meeting in Memphis next week.
All week and again during my address to the team at the conclusion of the event we’re rededicating ourselves to live the pledge.
Our pledge starts with always putting customers first and therefore we’re always looking for ways to improve our model.
As our product assortment continues to improve we feel it is essentially to reinstill a passion to say yes we’ve got it to our customers needs.
To this day it surprises me how often we’ve to say sorry we don’t have that available.
Even with our new part additions too many customers leave our stores without their needs being met.
In this spirit to help the customer we continue to make significant systems enhancements and to capture data about our customer shopping patterns across all of our platforms.
We understand we have to be able to share information and process seamlessly between our customers between our stores commercial shops phone and online experiences in order to meet all of our customers need.
Before getting into specifics on the fourth quarter I’d like to take a moment to go into detail on our inventory availability test.
We’ve concluded our test and determined the framework of our new supply chain strategy.
Over the last couple of years we’ve been testing two specific new concepts increase frequency of delivery to our stores and significantly expanded parts assortments in select stores we call mega hubs.
As both of these concepts are a material departure from our long standing successful strategy and both of them increase our fixed cost structure we’ve been patient.
We wanted to ensure that the results we initially achieve were accurate and sustainable.
The first test multiple deliveries per week focuses on improving our in-stock position in stores for regularly stocked SKUs.
The plan was to replenish our stores from their respective distribution center more frequently.
On the last quarter’s call we said a little over 900 of our 5 100 domestic stores were receiving either three or five times a week deliveries.
This was up from the usual once a week delivery schedules we’ve historically run.
With approximately 21 000 SKUs in an average AutoZone store we tested with increasing the replenishment frequency of these SKUs meant.
Although our inventory turns at a relatively low rate around 1.5 times per year the vast majority of our SKUs have an on hand quantity of one.
Therefore given the randomness of demand there is potential for out of stock positions.
There are clearly increased costs associated with delivering more frequently; however the sales lift achieved from our tests have supported increasing the delivery frequency in the majority of the chain to either three times per week or five times per week depending on certain parameters.
It is important to note that our current plan do not contemplate providing this level of service to all stores.
It just isn’t currently economically viable everywhere.’ Over the next 12 months we expect to roll this increased frequency model to approximately at an additional 1 000 stores.
We will begin this roll out in the first quarter.
Roughly speaking we’re modeling a gross margin headwind from this initiative of approximately 25 basis points each quarter until we complete the roll out.
It will take us a few years to roll out this new strategy.
But once it is complete we’d expect roughly two thirds of our stores to have increased frequency of deliveries.
As we implement this further we will continue to monitor our performance and will further refine the stores on this program.
The second test that we’re rolling out is a mega hub store concept.
We will open and/or expand another handful of mega hubs in 2016 increasing from our current count of five mega hubs.
We are very excited about what the mega hubs can represent for us.
We will open these locations over the back six months of our fiscal year.
As a reminder these super sized AutoZone stores carry between 80 000 to 100 000 unique SKUs approximately twice what a hub store carries today.
They provide coverage to both surrounding stores and other hub stores multiple times a day or over -- on an overnight basis.
Our sales results thus far in our open mega hubs are exceeding our expectations.
We’ve been pleasantly surprised to see the sales generated by the new unique SKU additions lifting both our retail and commercial businesses.
While there are incremental costs to these rollouts such as payroll and fuel to manage the extra deliveries to surrounding stores we feel their cost deleverage is relatively modest.
Our current assumption on this rollout is that we want to experience meaningful deleverage from this initiative in fiscal 2016.
Currently five mega hubs support approximately 750 surrounding stores and once built out we would expect to have a network of mega hubs in the neighborhood of 25 to 40 total locations.
Like the weekly deliveries from our distribution centers we expect to complete our mega hub expansion over the next few years.
In order to support more frequent deliveries to new stores as well as the mega hubs we expect to open two or three domestic distribution centers over the two or three years.
For your modeling purposes each new distribution center is expected to cost between $40 million to $45 million.
At present we’re in the early stages of planning their openings and don’t expect any distribution center to come online in early -- until early fiscal 2017.
Fiscal 2016 will incur some capital and operating expenses related to development but a larger portion of the capital we spend will be in fiscal 2017 and ’18.
We are very excited to have reached a conclusion on these strategic changes.
We had a tremendous amount of AutoZoners who worked this extremely hard and with great discipline.
Due to their incredible efforts and patience we believe we’ve identified the optimum approach for managing our supply chain.
In recent years AutoZone has completed small acquisitions with AutoAnything and IMC.
We currently expect our cash from investing in the business this upcoming year to look similar to this past year.
Our capital investments are expected to offset the capital used in the acquisitions.
To summarize our plans we expect to rollout more frequent distribution center deliveries and more mega hub locations over the next few years.
We also expect to open two or three new domestic distribution centers over this time.
While our total use of capital will not be materially different than next year from this past we do expect to incur an approximate 20 to 30 basis point gross margin headwind from these investments alone.
This past fiscal year we faced headwinds to our gross margin and we were able to overcome them and post improvements in each of our quarters.
We believe in fiscal 2016 we’ve opportunities for improvement but we remain cautious as we know we will experience more significant supply chain headwind.
Now let’s turn to our fourth quarter results.
Our sales increased 7.9%.
Our domestic same-store sales were up 4.5%.
This quarter sales result were stronger towards the back half of our fiscal quarter than the beginning.
While May was the weakest month of comp store performance the comparison to the previous year’s May was a contributor.
May was quite strong the year before.
The remaining months were very consistent.
We attribute this to consistent weather across much of the country and steadily lower fuel prices.
Regionally the Northeast and the Midwest performed slightly below our overall chain.
However these two markets were slightly better the year before.
In regards to our three primary merchandised category splits failure related maintenance and discretionary failure performed best followed closely in growth over the last year by maintenance and then discretionary.
We attribute failure strength to more miles being driven across the country and failure occurring with the vehicle usage in addition to favorable weather.
Both traffic and ticket were positive for our DIY and commercial businesses.
We opened 134 new commercial programs in the quarter versus 113 last year.
For the year we opened 296 net programs for the full-year reaching 81% of our domestic store base.
While our sales grew 13% on the year our programs opened grew by 8%.
We are proud of our commercial results this year and as our programs continue to mature we believe our future is bright.
As part of our strategy on increasing inventory levels in local markets closer to our customers this past quarter we opened three additional hub locations and now operate 176.
As mentioned above regarding opening more mega hub location we do expect to open more standard hub locations as well.
Over time we expect to operate as many as 200 to 225 stores as hubs.
But that growth is expected over many years to come.
Regarding Mexico we opened 23 stores this quarter and now have 441 total locations.
While Mexico’s U.S dollar sales were below historic growth rates we executed well especially in light of the foreign currency headwinds experienced with the peso.
Sales in our other businesses for the quarter were up 2% over last year.
As a reminder our ALLDATA and e-commerce businesses which include autozone.com and autoanything make up this segment of sales.
Regarding online sales opportunities there continued to be great opportunities for growth on both a business-to-business basis and to individual customers or B-to-C.
These businesses are relatively small for us representing just 3.4% of our total sales mix on the quarter.
Overall we feel like we’re well positioned in 2016 to improve on 2015s results.
With the continued aging of the car population as we continue to be optimistic regarding transfer our industry in both DIY and DIFM.
As new vehicle sales are reaching all-time highs and gas prices on average are down year-over-year miles driven continue to increase.
The lowering customer benefits the most from lower gas prices relative to income.
This trend is encouraging.
I know with our new fiscal year upon us many investors have asked about our expectations for 2016.
For us our second and third quarter results are more difficult comparison.
However we’re optimistic we can grow in all of our upcoming quarters.
While certain markets outperformed during the winter this past year others underperformed.
We believe we should improve in these regions.
As our history has shown we manage this business focusing on both short-term and long-term performance.
And if we felt our sales would be challenged in the short-term due to difficult comparisons we wouldn’t make material changes to our plans or operations.
We will continue to balance short-term and long-term performance and will be keenly focused on delivering consistent strong performance and extending our streak of 36 consecutive quarters of double-digit EPS growth.
However with our delivery frequency initiatives along with expanding mega hubs we will likely have some headwinds on our operating margin.
Now let me review our highlights regarding execution of our operating theme for 2015.
Wow! Every customer everywhere.
The key priorities for the year were great people providing great service profitably growing our commercial business leveraging the internet leveraging technology to improve the customer experience while optimizing efficiencies and improving availability.
On the retail front this past quarter under the great people providing great service theme we continued with our intense focus on improving execution.
We’ve continually been upgrading our product content in both our electronic catalogue and online offerings.
We’ve also been focused on improving our mobile app to be relevant across our fastest growing online category.
We’ve been aggressive on our technology investments and believe these initiatives will help differentiate us on a go-forward basis.
We believe or we realize as customers have become much more tech and mobile savvy we have to have a sales proposition that touches all the ways they desire to interact with us.
Our current and future technology investments will lead to sales growth across all our businesses.
In regards to commercial we opened 134 programs during the quarter.
For the year we opened 296 versus 424 last year.
Our expectation is we will continue to open new programs and grow our percentage of stores with the commercial program although our pace of growth will likely moderate.
As we continue to improve our product assortments and availability and as we make other refinements to our offerings we expect that the estimated sales potential from the market will grow.
Our results continue to provide us confidence to be aggressive and adding additional resources and new programs to this important growth initiative.
We should also highlight another strong performance in return on invested capital as we were able to finish 2015 at 31.2%.
We are very pleased with this metric and is -- its one of the best in all of hardline’s retail.
However our primary focus has been and continues to be that we ensured every incremental dollar of capital that we deployed in this business provides an acceptable return well in excess of our cost of capital.
It is important to reinforce that we will always maintain our diligence regarding capital stewardship as the capital we invest is our investor’s capital.
Before I pass the discussion over to Bill Giles to talk about our financial results I'd like to thank and reinforce how proud we’re of our entire organizations efforts to manage the business appropriately and prudently.
We have an amazing team and our initiatives for 2016 are very exciting.
With our ongoing supply chain initiatives as well as new store openings we’re ready to continue to provide Wow! Customer service to all of our customers and we’re ready to continue to prudently manage our cost structure providing our shareholders with the consistency we’ve exhibited in the past.
Now I’ll turn it over to Bill Giles.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone.
To start this morning let me take a few moments to talk more specifically about our retail commercial and international results for the quarter.
For the quarter total auto parts sales which includes our domestic retail and commercial businesses our Mexico and Brazil stores and our 20 IMC branches increased 8.1%.
Now switching to macro trends during the quarter nationally unleaded gas prices started out at $2.69 a gallon and ended the quarter at $2.51 a gallon an $0.18 decrease.
Last year gas prices decreased $0.21 per gallon during the fourth quarter starting at $3.67 and ending at $3.46 a gallon.
We continue to believe gas prices have a real impact on our customers' ability to maintain their vehicles and cost reductions help all Americans we hope to continue to benefit from this increase in disposable income.
We also recognized that the impact of miles driven on cars over 10 years old the current average is much different than on newer cars in terms of wear and tear.
Miles driven increased 2.6% in May and 3.9% in June.
We don't have July or August data yet.
The other statistic we highlight is the number of seven-year and older vehicles on the road which continues to trend in our industry’s favor.
For the trailing four quarters total sales per AutoZone store were $1 761 000.
This statistic continued to set the pace for the rest of the industry.
Now for the quarter total commercial sales increased 13.1%.
In the fourth quarter commercial represented 18% of our total sales and grew $70 million over last year's Q4.
This past quarter we opened a 134 new programs versus 113 programs opened in our fourth quarter of last fiscal year.
We now have our commercial program in 4 141 stores supported by 176 hub stores.
Approximately 1 100 of our programs are three years old or younger.
Let me take a moment discuss our commercial program performance while our average weekly sales per program for the full-year were below some peers in our industry had $8 800 our productivity continues to improve.
It’s important to highlight that we accelerated our new program growth over the past few years as approximately 26% of our programs are younger than three years old.
These openings have impacted our average sales metric and cannibalized some of our older programs.
However our focus is on growing market share and improving our service levels by having more programs closer to our customers.
Looking specifically at our mature programs those at least five years old they average $10 000 per week this past year and grew 6.2% over last year.
While we will continue to open additional programs over the next several years we will remain focused on improving the productivity of all our existing programs.
We also feel very good about this success we’ve had in profitably growing the commercial business and we like our trajectory here.
With our inventory additions in the support of the IMC acquisition we’re well positioned to grow our base business over the last several years to significant amount of our focus has been on opening new programs and that will continue to be the case albeit at a slightly moderated pace.
We have a very talented sales force and we’re enhancing training and introducing additional technology to optimize the productivity of the sales force.
We’ve increased our efforts around analyzing customer purchasing trends and in-stock trends.
In summary we remain committed to our long-term growth strategy.
We believe we’re well positioned to grow this business and capture increased market share and we believe we can scale this business in a profitable manner and we continue to be excited about our opportunities in this business for many years to come.
Now moving on to Mexico our Mexico stores continue to perform well.
We opened 23 new stores during the fourth quarter and 39 for the full-year.
We currently have 441 stores in Mexico.
This upcoming year we expect to open a similar 40 new stores and we’re on target to open a new distribution center.
This will mark our second DC in the country and support Central Mexico store growth.
While sales in base currency were above plan this past year the devaluation in the peso was much greater than we assumed at the start of the year.
The peso devalued 28% over the course of the year.
This created a headwind that caused our reported U.S.
dollar EBIT to be lower than last year.
The EBIT dollar impact on the quarter assuming constant currency with last year’s foreign exchange rate was meaningful approximately double-digit millions of dollar.
While we cannot control movements in functional currency versus planned assumptions we feel the Mexico leadership did an exceptional job managing the peso denominated business.
And while we hope more favorable currency compares are in our future in fiscal 2016 we know our Mexico AutoZoners will continue to provide outstanding customer service.
If the peso stays at these elevated levels it will continue to pressure our U.S dollar earnings for the next several quarters.
Now regarding Brazil we opened no stores in the quarter and have seven stores opened at the end of the year.
Our plans remain to open a few stores this upcoming fiscal 2016 while sales growth has been very encouraging we’ve been challenged by a weak Brazilian real relative to U.S dollars as well.
While the peso devalued 28% the real devalued 60% on the year.
We remain in test phase on Brazil but have been more encouraged of late due to our improved operating performance.
And recapping this past quarter’s performance for the Company in total our sales were $3.290 billion an increase of 7.9% over last year’s fourth quarter.
Domestic same-store sales or sales for stores opened more than one year were up 4.5% for the quarter.
Gross margin for the quarter was 52.5% of sales up 20 basis points.
The improvement in gross margin was attributable to higher merchandise margins partially offset by the impact from higher supply chain costs associated with current year inventory initiatives and Interamerican Motor Corporation which was acquired in September 2014.
In regards to inflation it has been down slightly year-over-year.
Currently we feel cost will be predictable and manageable.
We will remain cognizant in the future developments regarding inflation and will make the appropriate adjustments should they arise.
Looking forward we continue to believe there remains opportunity for gross margin expansion within both the retail and commercial businesses but our commercial business is growing at an accelerated rate and it has lower margins which is adding pressure to our overall gross margins.
It is important to note we do not manage to targeted gross margin percentage.
We will understand the headwind from expanding our distribution center deliveries will cause.
We work diligently to offset these headwinds with the focus on lower acquisition cost.
Our primary focus remains growing absolute gross profit dollars in our total auto parts segment.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 32.2% of sales higher by 52 basis points from last year's fourth quarter.
The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of sales was primarily due to legal costs higher legal costs and the impact of the IMC acquisition.
The legal costs growth this quarter was attributable to discrete matters that we would not expect to continue.
The acquisition of IMC anniversary this month in September so we expect the majority of the deleverage to dissipate going forward.
We continue to believe we’re well positioned to manage our cost structure in response to our sales environment.<br> EBIT for the quarter was $669 million up 6.2% over the last year's fourth quarter.
Our EBIT margin was 20.3%.
Interest expense for the quarter was $47.1 million compared with $49.4 million in Q4 a year-ago.
Debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $4.620 billion or approximately $300 million more than last year's balance of $4.323 billion.
Our adjusted debt level metric finished the quarter at 2.5 times EBITDAR.
While in any given quarter we may increase or decrease our leverage metric based on management's opinion regarding debt and equity market conditions we remain committed to both our investment-grade rating and our capital allocation strategy; and share repurchases are an important element of that strategy.
For the quarter our tax rate was in line with last year’s Q4.
We expect our annual rate to be closer to 36.5% on an ongoing basis as the deviation results in primarily driven by the resolution of discrete tax items that arise.
Net income for the quarter was $401 million and up 7.4% over last year.
Our diluted share count of 31.5 million was down 5% from last year's fourth quarter.
The combination of these factors drove earnings per share for the quarter to $12.75 up 13% over the prior year's fourth quarter.
Now relating to the cash flow statement for the fourth fiscal quarter we generated $526 million of operating cash flow.
Net fixed assets were up 6% versus last year.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $188 million and reflected the additional expenditures required to open 97 new locations this quarter capital expenditures on existing stores hub and mega hub store remodels or openings work on development of new stores for upcoming quarters and information technology investments.
For all fiscal 2015 our CapEx was approximately $480 million.
With the new stores opened we finished this past quarter with 5 141 stores in 49 states the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico 441 stores in Mexico and seven in Brazil for a total AutoZone store count of 5 589.
We also had 20 IMC branches opened at fiscal year and taking our total locations to 5 690.
Depreciation totaled $87 million for the quarter versus last year's fourth quarter expense of $79 million in line with recent quarter growth rates.
With our excess cash flow we repurchased $430 million of AutoZone stock in the fourth quarter.
At year-end we have $348 million remaining under our share buyback authorization and our leverage metric was 2.5 times at year-end.
Again I want to stress we managed appropriate credit ratings and not any one metric; the metric we report is meant as a guide only as each rating firm has its own criteria.
We continue to view our share repurchase program as an attractive capital deployment strategy.
Accounts payable as a percent of gross inventory finished the quarter at 113.
Next I'd like to update you on our inventory levels in total and on a per store basis.
The Company’s inventory increased 9% over the same period last year driven by increased product placement new stores during the fiscal year and the acquisition of IMC inventory per location was $610 versus $582 000 last year and $629 000 last quarter.
The IMC acquisition increased inventory per location by $15 000 this quarter.
Net inventory defined as merchandise inventories less accounts payable on a per location basis was a negative $79 000 versus negative $87 000 last year and negative $68 000 in just the last quarter.
As a reminder the addition of IMC has added $15 000 in inventory per location and reduced AP to inventory by approximately 2 percentage points.
As we will now be anniversarying the acquisitions we expect dramatically reduced pressure on these overall metrics going forward.
Finally as Bill previously mentioned our continued disciplined capital management approach resulted in return on invested capital for the trailing four quarters of 31.2%.
We have and will continue to make investments that we believe will generate returns that significantly exceed our cost of capital.
Now I'll turn it back to Bill Rhodes.
Thanks Bill.
We’re pleased to report our 36th consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth and for the year the reported EPS growth rate of 14.1%.
We also surpassed an historic milestone in 2015 exceeding $10 billion in sales for the first time in our company’s rich history.
Our company has continued to be successful over the long run.
That success is attributable to our approach of leveraging our unique and powerful culture and focusing on the needs of our customers.
To execute at a high level we have to consistently adhere to living the pledge.
We cannot and will not take our eye of off execution.
While we study the external environment and react where appropriate we must stay committed to executing day-in and day-out on our game plan.
Success will be achieved with an attention to detail and exceptional execution.
Before I conclude I want to take this opportunity to reflect on fiscal 2015.
We were able to build on past accomplishments and deliver some impressive results.
In recognition of the dedication passion and commitment of our AutoZoners I want to highlight that we grew sales to a record $10.2 billion this past year and we grew same store sales at 3.8%.
We grew our store base in Mexico and managed our expenses exceptionally well in spite of the foreign currency headwind with the peso.
We began our IMC integration opened three new branches and now have 20 locations.
With the minority of our AutoZone stores today able to sell IMC products we feel we’re well positioned to expand this business in the future.
Our inventory availability testing in mega hub store remodels helped us to reach our conclusion and allowed us to announce our planned implementation schedule.
I could not be more proud of the tremendous work everyone on this project contributed.
And lastly we will talk more about saying yes.
We got it to our customers.
We are fixated on making sure we meet our customer’s needs in 2016.
Our offerings are the best they have ever been and we are determined to communicate this to our customer base.
At the end of the day our customers have choices and we must exceed their expectation.
Again we’re excited about our initiatives around inventory assortment and availability hub stores commercial growth Mexico ALLDATA ecommerce Brazil and IMC.
Our long-term model is to grow new store square footage at a low-single digit growth rate and we expect to continue growing our commercial business at an accelerated rate.
Therefore we look to routinely grow EBIT dollars in the mid-single digit range or better in terms of strength and we leverage our very strong and predictable cash flow to repurchase shares enhancing our earnings per share growth into double digits.
We feel the track we’re on will allow us to continue winning for the long run.
We believe our steady consistent strategy is correct.
It is the attention to details and consistent execution that will matter.
Our belief is solid consistent strategy combined with superior execution is a formula for success.
Our charge remains to optimize our performance regardless of market conditions and continue to ensure we are investing in the key initiatives that will drive our long-term performance.
In the end delivering strong EPS growth and ROIC each and every quarter is how we measure ourselves.
We're pleased with our results this past year so we must remain committed to delivering on our strategic and financial objectives.
I can't wait to sit down and talk to our leadership team at our upcoming national sales meeting.
This team is comprised of the best leaders in our industry.
We are launching our Live the Pledge theme and I know our leaders combined with our talented teams of roughly 80 000 AutoZoners will do just that.
Now we’d like to open up the call for questions.
Thank you sir.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Mr.
Seth Basham with Wedbush Securities.
Sir your line is open.
Thanks a lot and good morning.
Good morning.
My first question is regarding the new distribution strategy.
Obviously you guys have worked really hard to test it; you now have a plan to roll it out just trying a bit to understand the return dynamics and the financial implications here.
So previously you had stated that you expect about $1000 or $1500 per week lift per store when all of a sudden it does -- when all of a sudden done from this initiative.
I want to confirm that’s still on target? Yes I will start with -- that $1000 to $1500 per store is the target when both -- when they get both initiatives.
Now I’ve said in our prepared comments that about a third of the stores will not receive nor frequent delivery and so some piece of that will not flow through to them.
But on stores that get both the mega hub and the increased frequency of delivery it will be in a range of $1000 to $1500.
It’s a little tough Bill at this point to narrow that range.
There’s just a lot of variability depending on a lot many different factors.
Got it.
So as you roll us out to 1000 stores next year about 20% of your base it would appear that on a run rate basis that should be driving boost of comps between 75 and 100 basis points at the same time you’ll be experiencing some gross margin pressure about 25 basis points but that looks like a pretty good trade off in my book.
It looks like you’ll be growing gross profit dollars from this initiative around $50 million next year on a run rate basis versus about $25 million to gross profit or expenses I’d say with the rollout that’s a pretty good return.
Is that the right way to think about it? Well you did a lot of really good math there very quickly much quicker than I can do it.
I think generically speaking you’re in the ballpark and we’re not going to go forward with even this business.
We think they’re going to provide us with a growth and operating profit dollars that exceeds our return metrics and we think that both of these initiatives will do that.
Now we didn’t think that it would do it in the lowest volume stores with July we’re not going to roll it for those stores at this point in time.
Got it.
Understood and good luck.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Ms.
Kate McShane with Citi Research.
Ma’am your line is open.
I just wondered more [indiscernible] on the quarter and then I had a question about the successful test.
For the comp during the quarter can you talk a little bit about how you did compared to your plans and if there was a strategy or plan where it did come from? I think generally speaking that performance versus our plan was pretty much on track particularly in the retail business.
Frankly we had a pretty aggressive plan in the fourth quarter that we were a little bit daunted about coming into the quarter.
May was very soft and we were behind but June July and August outperformed and generally ended on plan.
Okay thank you.
And my second question is just on some of your commentary around your GT build outs and opportunities for new store growth.
How should we think about that from a location standpoint? Where are you aiming to build out your stores and with regards to the GT where could they be located and are you considering where they’re located in relation to how your competitors supply chain are now? Sure.
As far as today we have distribution centers that can service our current strategy for anywhere in the United States.
We’re not prepared yet to talk about specifically where these next two to three distribution centers are we still have some work to do but we can service every store today.
The reason we need to expand it is one as we continue to grow our store count we need more capacity in our supply chain.
And then secondly as we move to increase frequency of deliveries we need to have some distribution centers that are closer in certain parts of the country and what we’ll be solving with these extra two to three distribution centers.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mr.
Simeon Gutman with Morgan Stanley.
Sir your line is open.
Thanks good morning.
Following up on Seth’s question regarding I guess some of the margin trajectory going forward.
Bill you said some of these investments will weigh on margins.
You quantified that the 25 bps from the multiple delivery and I think you said very modest de-leverage from on the SG&amp;A line from DC.
In all it doesn’t seem like a big amount this quarter I think you had that run rate and X some of those currency headwinds and legal you would have seen margins if not up at least flattish.
So my question is is there a specific outlook on the margin side.
It feels like margin could still go up even with that 25 basis point headwind.
Do you agree or you’re just trying to just take a cautious outlook ahead of the rollout? Yes I think the way I would answer that is that we wanted to carve out at least what the impact was if the initiative varied specifically so we said that that was 20 to 30 basis points the majority of that is in gross margin as you highlighted a little bit of that would be in SG&amp;A to support the mega hub operational activities and frankly you’re right we had about a 24 basis point impact in supply chain for this past quarter which is probably a pretty good way to look at it for the next several quarters as we continue to rollout stores.
Now separate and distinct from that our merchandising organization has done a terrific job in lowering acquisition cost during surprised optimization and they’ve done a very good job in offsetting those costs.
So I think there are other opportunities for us to continue to improve gross margin rates.
But we can clearly identify and quantify the investments and we wanted to highlight those for you.
But I think as we look at out over the year we feel its pretty good about overall margin rates but clearly we’ll have some headwinds.
Okay.
My follow-up on the tests on the multiple delivery tests or the stores that you’ve been operating for a year can you just give a little more color about the traction you’re seeing.
Bill Rhodes mentioned saying yes more frequent are you growing the basket with the existing customer are you moving up on the call list are you getting new customers that wouldn’t -- that didn’t previously do business.
Can you just add a little more color on so we can appreciate the curve of improvement after the rollout is ongoing? Yes I would say that number one we’re seeing the benefit in both our retail and commercial businesses.
We’ve been very pleased with the performance to date.
Now this is -- you have to remember this is slower moving inventory.
So when they call us and we have it you can get the sales pretty much immediately because we haven’t seen anything ramp and what has happened over time.
I do hope and expect over time that our commercial customers the more frequently we say yes the more we’ll up their call list.
That’s all on increased frequency of delivery.
Regarding mega hubs that is a substantial different offering we’ve ever had in the market place.
And I think by us being able to surprise and delight our commercials -- both retail and commercials that that’s beginning to build traction over time.
Okay.
Thanks.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mr.
Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Sir your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks.
Good morning Bill.
Good morning.
So when you think about the eventual distribution that work of 11 DC than 40 mega hubs AutoZone’s capital investment in distribution will still be less than half of competitors which is O’Reilly and NAPA.
When you think about the end game a few years out how will the parts coverage compared to those competitors when will it be significantly better than what AutoZone has had in the past but if you are to benchmark it I guess those competitors that made that the much larger investment what will be the difference? I think we’ll be at the top of the heap in the industry with getting access to inventory.
Certainly where we have frequency of delivery at three to five times a week we’ll be able to pose out those in-stocks.
When you think about -- you’re trying to solve two different problems.
One is an in-stock problem where you have very low demand and when it spikes if you don’t have an increased frequency of delivery you’re out of business for eight days.
We believe this 10 to 11 distribution center model will allow us to do that at the optimum level.
That does not mean that we won't forgo a few sales here and there but we want to make sure that we get a return on the investments that we’re making that is sufficient for our expectations.
And secondly with the mega hub you’re trying to solve expanded parts only.
And by putting these 25 to 40 mega hubs in the markets we’re going to significantly increase the local market availability of product to 80 000 to 100 000 SKUs.
That helps both our retail customer and our commercial customer on a same day basis in those markets.
And then on an overnight basis it will go to other hubs stores which I think is best in class solution.
So if you think about the potential for an extra $1 500 of revenues per week per program where both of the initiatives are in place.
Your commercial run rate is still up about $200 000 less per program let’s say compared to O’Reilly.
Is the difference the fact that its going to take a multiple number of years for your customers to recognize that your capabilities are greater or we’re not factoring perhaps there’s going to be a need to a large or a number of sales people at AutoZone but I would think that the upside could actually be more than the $15000 that you’re suggesting? Well first of all we said $1 000 to $1 500 Dan but I appreciate your optimism and I hope you’re right too.
I hope the upside is more than that.
Our testing hasn’t proven that out yet but as I mentioned a few minutes ago over time the more you say yes to your commercial customers especially on hard to find parts the more confidence they’re going to get with you and there could potentially be a halo effect over the long time.
This is a significant improvement for us but it’s not a silver bullet.
We still have to continue to refine the way we go to market make sure we got the right product offerings make sure that we have the best sales force -- sales force which I think we do and on and on.
It’s going to take us some time but we’re closing those gaps even as we speak.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Mr.
Michael Lasser with UBS.
Sir your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks a lot for taking my question.
Bill as you look out at your industry over the next few months it looks -- it seems like the low gas prices are here to stay.
The weather could be unique given some of the predictions that are out there.
So what do you think is going to have a greater influence on demand for the industry gas prices or the weather over the next few months? I would say that from a consistency perspective I think the gas prices have clearly done a couple of things for us one of which is it has increased supposable income particularly for our customer and it also seems to have attributed to increased in miles driven and we’re seeing some miles driven numbers that are historically very high relative to anything we’ve seen in the past.
And so I think those two things which increase wear and tear on automobiles those are the -- and the age of the vehicles.
Those three factors I think are probably going to help support demand for the industry for over the long-term.
But weather you maybe right it’s very hard to predict for us.
Obviously we had some favorability this fourth quarter particularly towards the end but that’s really difficult for us to predict and forecast and we’ll just have to see it as it comes.
But on the other ones I think that those really are favorable underlying trends with the help of the industry.
Okay.
And then following up on the inventory strategy that you’re pursuing I think the market has come to expect a lot of flexibility in your cost structure where as sales gyrate from quarter-to-quarter you’re still able to produce the type of earning that you have.
Did the new inventory strategy reduce that flexibility such as if the sales don’t come through the margin performance could be more at risk? I guess theoretically that’s probably true because we’re adding some increased fixed cost structure to the organization but at the same time as you pointed out we have been very good at determining how to manage our overall cost structure given the environment that we’re dealing with.
Having said that we’re committed to this initiative and we’re very encouraged by and we’re going to see it throughout.
Okay.
Last quick one a few years ago you were decreasing your share count year-over-year by high single digit pace as moderated into a more like a mid single digit pace.
Is that a reasonable rate to expect moving forward? I think so.
I mean it’s obviously PE its dependent on the PE.
So as our PE has gone obviously our share repurchases as a percent is declined as you said to mid-high single digits to just this past quarter 5%.
So it’s going to continue to be a very important part of our capital allocation strategy and its going to be a very key element of us driving EPS growth.
We’ve got a nice balance of organic EBIT growth and share repurchase to drive EPS and I expect that to continue in the future.
Cool.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Mr.
Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Sir you line is open.
Thanks a lot.
Good morning and I appreciate all the additional information on the call today.
My first question relates to this quarter I’m just trying to understand some of the improvement.
It looks like commercial saw more acceleration and Bill you gave us that 6.2% increase from mature programs.
Can you tell us how that 6.2% compare to what you’ve done over the prior quarter or two and to what degree do you think the improvement you generated I think commercial is it all a function of some of that the early testing and rollouts that you’ve been implementing on the inventory and help side? I’d say the 6.2% is probably a bit of an acceleration and as we highlighted that’s on our mature program.
So we’ve seen a little bit of acceleration on that and with some of the other questions we were going through on commercial some of that relates to some of the things that we’ve done around inventory availability and inventory initiatives.
But keep in mind we’ve got several initiatives in our commercial programs and we’ve got a lot of things that we’re working on in order to continue to drive that average weekly sale or average dollars per program everyday.
So it’s not just inventory availability initiatives although that’s been helpful.
Great.
Second question as we model out the gross margin or the aggregate margin impact of the supply chain investments.
You spoke about approximately 25 basis points year-on-year is that 25 basis points each year incremental to the prior year until the rollout is essentially done? Theoretically yes although my guess is that as we get past a year or 18 month that we’ll be able to dissipate some of that impact with improved sales performance and other tactics to improve margin rates.
Got it.
And then finally as you think about the incremental inventory I know the dollars are not huge to the extent that that Bill Rhodes alluded to as slow turning inventory to what degree do you think vendors are going to be able to carry that for you as a payable relative to the basis? Yes I think that’s a good question.
I think right now we’re at 1.5 times turn and so if we can kind of keep it around that number I think the vendors should be able to support our AP inventory ratio where it is.
Okay.
Thanks so much guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mr.
Greg Melich with Evercore ISI.
Sir your line is open.
Thanks.
I had sure some housekeeping and a strategic question but first on the housekeeping.
If I got it right the CapEx is probably going to go up to around $600 million if you factor in the M&amp;A but then it should build even a little more into 2017 given that’s when the DCs will actually open.
Did we get that right -- did I get that right on the cash flow side? Yes Greg I think you’re pretty close on that on the $600 million there maybe a little of an increase over that.
We’ll have a little bit of DC dollars in ’16 but more on ’17? Okay great.
And then I just want to make sure on strategic side and in your prepared comments I heard you guys mention the new hard parts replacement techniques.
Can I assume that’s all part of the mega hubs and the expand availability.
But what is is that all that is or is there something else going on there.
It sounded like it might be a new software system or algorithms you run to figure out where to put those parts or am I reading too much into that? Yes Greg maybe -- I’m sorry we weren’t clear enough.
That’s the work we did a year year and a half ago where we updated the algorithms to place forward place the inventory with a slant towards newer merchandise newer life cycle of vehicle and merchandise so that work has been done for about a year now and it’s worked very well.
Now we’re using those same methodologies to assort our mega hubs and as we continue to roll those out we’ll leverage that methodology there.
Got it.
And then as part of that that 21 000 SKUs per store it sounds like as this plays itself out with more daily replenishment.
Your plan is not to change that that would have been shifted a couple of years ago with these algorithms.
This is now just making sure you’re in stock faster.
That is exactly correct.
We’ll modify our SKU count by category every time we do a category update.
But the step function change in what we were going to stock in the store has been done.
Now we’re going to make a step function change in 70% of the stores on how frequently they receive their replenishment orders.
And lastly if I could follow-up on that how does this change -- you’ve always had a very strong private label program and you’ve built these brands Duralast in particular.
How does the shift affect that if we think out three four five years? Yes great question.
It will have zero bearing on our merchandise strategy and branding strategy.
Duralast has been a terrific strategy for us and it will continue to be so.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mr.
Chris Horvers with J.P.
Morgan.
Sir your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
So I wanted to from an understanding perspective what are the buckets of higher fixed costs associated with the new inventory initiatives and perhaps any quantification of how much your cost structure will become more fixed over time maybe as a percentage of total -- from a percentage of total cost perspective? Probably I’ve got two things going on one of which is it will open three distribution centers over the next several years so that will increase the cost structure.
We believe that obviously replacing those distribution centers will reduce the transportation cost so hopefully that will offset it.
And then there’ll be some increased transportation equipment if you will of tractors and trailers in order to increase delivery frequency so those are the costs.
They’re not overly significant but you’re adding some capital into the equation.
And then from an ability to be flexible in terms of the rollout with the mega hubs and the increased frequency of delivery that’s something that can -- you can perhaps accelerate more quickly if you saw more success and then on the other side if the environment weakened isn’t there ability to dial those back? On the margin absolutely but obviously there’s a lot of work involved in increasing the delivery like I said there’s transportation required people required and then the same on the mega hubs we’ve got to find the real estate and expand the locations or create a new location.
So there’s some lead time in being able to do this and being able to do it in an efficient profitable manner.
And then last question in case I missed it.
Did you mention how many stores currently have both mega hub and increased frequency and how do you think about the percentage of stores that will have those long-term? Thanks.
Yes we specifically said we’ve got about 900 stores on the increased frequency of deliveries and from our five mega hubs we have about 750 stores that are being serviced by those.
I don’t even know off the top of my head how many of them have both.
Over the long run about 70% are going to have increased frequency of delivery.
And the majority of the stores are going to have mega hubs.
But ones that are in remote locations or small volume stores won't have either one of those.
Thanks very much.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And now I’d like to hand the call back over to Mr.
Bill Rhodes.
Sir.
Okay.
Before we conclude the call I’d just like to take a moment to reiterate that our business model continues to be very solid.
We’re excited about our growth prospects for the year.
We will not take anything for granted as we understand our customers have alternatives.
We have a solid plan to succeed this fiscal year but I want to stress that this is a marathon and not a sprint.
As we continue to focus on the basics and focus on optimizing long-term shareholder value we’re confident AutoZone will continue to be very successful.
We thank you for participating in today's call.
That concludes today's call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.