Good morning everyone and welcome to Portland General Electric Company’s first quarter 2011 earnings results conference call.
Today is Thursday May 5 2011.
This call is being recorded and as such all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) And for opening remarks I would like to turn the conference over to Portland General Electric’s Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Bill Valach.
Please go ahead Mr.
Valach.
Yes thank you Kelsey and good morning everyone.
We’re pleased that you are able to join us today.
Before we begin our discussion this morning I’d like to make our customary statements regarding Portland General Electric’s written and oral disclosures and commentary.
There will be statements in this call that are not based on historical facts and as such constitute forward-looking statements under current law.
These statements are subject to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made today.
For a description of some of the factors that may occur that could cause such differences the company requests that you read our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Qs.
The Form 10-Q for first quarter 2011 was available this morning at portlandgeneral.com.
The company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
And this Safe Harbor statement should be incorporated as part of any transcript of this call.
Portland General Electric’s first quarter earnings were released before the market opened today and the release is available at portlandgeneral.com.
Leading our discussion today are Jim Piro President and CEO; and Maria Pope Senior Vice President of Finance CFO and Treasurer.
Jim will begin today’s presentation by providing a general overview of the quarter’s results and our strategic capital projects.
Then Maria will provide more detail around the quarterly results and key regulatory proceedings.
Following prepared remarks we will open the lines up for your questions.
And now it’s my pleasure to turn the call over to Jim.
Thank you Bill.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Welcome to Portland General Electric’s 2011 first quarter earnings call.
I’m very proud of our strong operating performance during the first quarter.
Through effective power supply management we were able to economically displace a significant amount of our thermal generation with increased energy received from hydro resources and low cost purchase power.
Our transmission and distribution system performed well and we continue to focus on cost efficiency and effectiveness keeping our operating costs in line with our 2011 general rate case.
All while remaining – maintaining high levels of customer satisfaction.
PGE’s net income for first quarter of 2011 was $69 million or $0.92 per diluted share compared to $27 million or $0.36 per diluted share for first quarter 2010.
We are increasing our full-year 2011 earnings guidance by $0.10 to a $1.90 to $2.05 per share from the prior guidance of $1.80 to $1.95 per share.
Increased guidance primarily reflects improved hydro conditions and lower purchase power costs.
Now let’s move on to the economic outlook for our operating areas.
We continued to experienced customer growth with the addition of 3 800 new customers since the first quarter of 2010.
Oregon seasonally adjusted unemployment rate declined in March to 10% for the state and 9.6% for the Portland metro area.
This compares to the U.S.
average of 8.8% in March.
Oregon’s decline was due to an increase in job creation particularly with business employers.
Total retail energy deliveries on the weather adjusted basis increased approximately 3.1% compared to first quarter of 2010.
While we experienced increases in delivery across all customer segments the load increase was driven primarily by one large industrial customer in the paper sector and deliveries to high tech customers.
We project that weather adjusted retail energy deliveries for 2011 will be approximately 1% above 2010 levels which is the net of the expected impacts of energy efficiency efforts.
Now an update on our strategic initiatives starting with operational excellence.
We continue to deliver excellent operating performance companywide.
Our system operated extremely well.
Our distribution reliability metrics remained strong.
And although a considerable amount of thermal generation was economically displaced during much of the first quarter generating plant availability remained high.
In overall customer satisfaction we ranked in the top decile for residential and general business customers and in the top quartile for large industrial customers.
Recently J.D.
Power ranked PGE second in the region and fourth in the nation for overall satisfaction in their 2011 Electric Utility Business Customer Satisfaction Study.
I’d also like to mention that Steve Hawke Senior Vice President of Customer Service Transmission and Distribution is retiring in July after 38 years with the company.
Steve’s dedication to customers and operational excellence helped the company achieve top industry rankings for system reliability and customer satisfaction.
I’d like to thank Steve for all he has done.
Bill Nicholson who has worked closely with Steve for many years will step into this role.
Bill joined PGE in 1980 as a Generation Engineer.
He was appointed to the executive team in 2007 to lead customers and economic development and has served as Vice President of Distribution since 2009.
the Oregon Environmental Quality Commission approved new rules as part of the state’s implementation plan for Regional Haze for Boardman.
The rules require installation of new emission controls and allow continued coal-fired operations of Boardman through 2020.
Under a separate set of rules PGE is required to install controls to eliminate 90% of mercury emissions.
The total cost of all of the emissions controls is estimated at approximately $60 million excluding AFDC.
The Environmental Protection Agency is expected to make a final decision on the state’s implementation plan for Boardman by mid-2011.
In addition we submitted a regulatory filing with the OPUC in April requesting the recovery of increased depreciation expense reflecting a change in the retirement date of the Boardman plan from 2014 to 2020.
If approved an approximate increase of less than 1% would be included in customer prices as early as July of this year.
In a separate federal rule-making process the EPA is addressing national emission standards for a variety of hazardous air pollutants.
Proposed maximum achievable control technology or MACT standards for these emissions were announced in March with approval scheduled for later this year.
We are currently evaluating the rules and have not yet determined whether we can meet all of the proposed standards with current and planned control technologies.
PGE will continue to advocate within the EPA rule-making process to allow for innovative solutions like the Boardman 2020 plan under the MACT standards.
Now I’ll move on to our integrated resource plan.
Our IRP action plan which was acknowledged by the OPUC last November included meeting approximately 50% of future load growth through energy efficiency measures and meeting the remaining energy and capacity needs through new generation and transmission projects.
To achieve the generation portion of the plan we will conduct three separate competitive bidding processes to acquire the following resources.
First approximately 200 megawatts of year-around flexible peaking resources.
This RFP will also seek additional seasonal peaking resources.
Approximately 200 megawatts of winter and summer peaking supply and approximately 150 megawatt of winter only peaking supply.
We plan to bring these resources online in the 2013 to 2015 timeframe.
Second approximately 120 average megawatt of new renewable resources to help meet Oregon’s renewable energy standards.
We plan to bring these resources online as needed to meet Oregon’s 2015 RES requirements of 15%.
And finally approximately 300 to 500 megawatts of base load high efficiency natural gas generation.
We plan to bring these resources online in the 2015 timeframe.
In each of the three competitive bidding processes we currently plan to include our own self-build options to compete with the market bids.
In April the OPUC approved the selection of the Axion Group to act as the independent evaluator for the RFP processes.
The process for the peaking resources will likely be completed in late 2011 or early 2012.
The process for the new renewable resources will likely be completed by late 2012 or early 2013 and the process for the base load resources will likely be completely by mid-2012.
The IRP action plan also includes our Cascade Crossing Transmission Projects.
We’ve entered into MOUs with Bonneville Power Administration PacifiCorp Idaho Power and the Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs Studies have begun on private and public lands and the results will help determine the final route and facilitate the state federal and tribal permitting processes.
Looking ahead to future capital expenditures we will complete the RFP process and the results will provide better clarity on our equity and debt requirements.
The amount and timing of future financings is dependent on the outcome and timing of the competitive bidding processes our Cascade permitting process PGE’s financial performance and capital market conditions.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Maria Pope our Chief Financial Officer to discuss our financial and operating results in greater detail.
Good morning.
Thank you Jim.
Today I’ll cover our financial results for quarter review operating performance provide an update on key regulatory items and conclude with our liquidity and financing.
First quarter 2011 net income was $69 million or $0.92 per diluted share compared to $27 million or $0.36 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2010.
Operating results for the quarter were driven primarily by increased retail energy deliveries and decreased power costs.
First quarter 2011 retail revenues increased 10% from the first quarter of 2010.
This increase was primarily due to a 10% in retail energy deliveries resulting from cooler than normal temperatures compared to unseasonably warm temperatures in the first quarter 2010.
And secondarily an increase in demand from our paper and high tech manufacturing customers.
For the first quarter of 2011 weather positively impacted results by approximately $0.05 per share compared to a negative impact of approximately $0.05 per share in the first quarter of 2010.
Also contributing to the increase and retail revenues was a 3% increase in average retail prices and customer growth of 0.5% quarter-over-quarter.
Decoupling had a de minimis impact in the first quarter of 2011.
This compares to a $5 million collection from customers recorded in the first quarter of 2010.
Further offsetting revenues was an aggregate $10 million effect OF regulatory items which were offset in other areas of the income statement.
Purchase power and fuel expense decreased 13% quarter-over-quarter due to a 19% decrease in average variable power costs.
The increased amount of energy available from regional hydro resources contributed the average cost of purchase power being 41% lower than in the first quarter of 2010.
To take advantage of lower market prices PGE’s thermal generation was economically displaced.
Our thermal plants supplied 24% of PGE’s total system load in the first quarter compared to 50% last year.
During the first quarter of 2011 PGE’s generating plant availability was 98% compared to 95% for the same period of 2010.
Now onto hydro.
It has been cold and very wet in the Pacific Northwest during the first quarter of 2011.
Energy received from PGE owned and long-term contracted hydro-resources was 16% above normal in the first quarter of 2011.
This compares to a 21% below normal in the first quarter of 2010.
With cooler than normal temperatures and increased precipitation PGE received 40% more energy from hydro generation quarter-over-quarter.
Hydro generation received from the PGE and resources in long-term contracts positively impacted our financial performance by approximately $4 million pre-tax in the first quarter of 2011 compared to a negative impact of approximately $11 million pre-tax in the first quarter of 2010.
With river runoff currently at 120% normal we expect energy received from hydro generation to be above normal for the full-year 2011.
Now onto wind.
We have increased our installed wind generation with the completion of Biglow Canyon Wind Farm.
By completing the last phase of the project Biglow now has the total of 450 megawatts of main play capacity.
2011 is the first benchmark year for Oregon to renewable energy standards.
With the completion of Biglow Canyon we are supplying to 10% to 11% of our retail load with RES qualified resources well ahead of the 2011 5% benchmark.
I’ll now update you on a few regulatory items starting with our power cost adjustment mechanism or PCAM.
For 2011 the PCAM deadband range is from $15 million below to $30 million above the baseline for net variable power costs.
Through March 31 actual net variable power costs were approximately $19 million below the baseline.
This compares to being $7 million above the baseline in the first quarter of 2010.
Net variable power costs for the year are currently estimated to be below the lower deadband threshold with PGE estimated fee slightly exceed our regulated earnings cast of 11% return on equity.
We have reported an estimated refund to customers of approximately $4 million as of March 31.
Now we’ll move onto SB 408.
In March Senate Bill 967 was introduced into the Oregon legislature.
The bill passed in the senate in April and will move to floor of the house for a full vote which is expected to be on Monday May 9.
If Senate Bill 967 is enacted into law it will repeal the annual tax true up requirements.
The OPUC will continue to calculate and include income taxes for both current and deferred in regular rate making proceedings.
We will monitor SB 408 as it progresses through the house until the bill is fully enacted we will continue to acquire the OPUC’s SB 408 temporary rule that were issued in February 2011.
For both 2010 and 2011 we estimate neither a material refund nor collection for customers.
Now onto financing and liquidity.
We are active in the wholesale marketplace entering into forward contracts for natural gas and power to mitigate commodity price volatility for our customers.
As of March 31 we posted $206 million in collateral with wholesale counterparties which consisted of $80 million in cash and a $126 million in letters of credit.
As contracts settle as market pressures remain unchanged we anticipate that about 57% of collateral posted will roll off by the end of 2011 which consists of approximately $87 million in lines of credit and $30 million in cash.
We have $600 million in revolving lines of credit of which $453 million was available at March 31.
At the end of the first quarter we had no commercial paper outstanding and no direct draws on the revolvers.
While we target a capital structure of 50% debt 50% equity periodically we are higher or lower.
On March 31 our equity ratio was 48%.
For 2011 we estimate capital expenditures will be approximately $310 million and estimate similar levels for 2012.
These projected amounts do not include capital spending associated with Cascade Crossing or the RFP generation projects outlined in our IRP action plan.
As capital spending for construction of new generation resulting from the IRP competitive business bidding process could begin mid-2012 at the earliest.
In closing we continue to focus on financial objectives that support our core utility business and growth initiatives including improved ROE and earnings performance maintaining adequate liquidity and a strong balance sheet to support our investment grade credit ratings.
Jim? Thank you Maria.
First quarter 2011 performance reflects our continued focus on operational excellence including flexibility and effectiveness in our power supply operations and prudent management of our operating costs.
We are moving forward with implementation of our IRP action plan.
And we will continue to position the company for future investment opportunities that deliver value to our customers and a competitive return for our shareholders.
Operator we’d now like to open the call for questions.
Absolutely.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll go first to Eric McCarthy<i> </i>with<i> </i>Praesidis<i> </i>Asset Management.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Eric.
Quick question I know there is no such thing as a truly normal quarter when it comes to the variability hydro but if you could sort of quantify the – maybe the benefit that we got from not dispatching fossils modifying [ph] hydro and put it on a sort of a normalized basis and then the same with the sales? That is challenging question but just I’d say there is two impacts of hydro one is the increased generation at our hydro plants and the hydro contracts we have.
And then secondly when we have increased hydro in the region that drives down wholesale prices.
So there is kind of a multiple effect to that.
Maria do you have any details on that? Sure.
And as we mentioned the impact of the additional water flow on our hydro resources was about $4 million.
And if you take a look and compare that to more normalized power prices in the region had those been in effect the number would have been about twice that positive impact.
Okay so… About $8 million.
Okay.
The increase dispatched from the hydro or hydro resources that we benefited within about $4 million and… And if it had not been for the impact of hydro which would substantially reduce power prices in the Pacific Northwest as Jim mentioned and we had more normalized those power prices over the quarter you probably would have seen about double the impact from that hydro flow.
So net about $8 million.
Okay brilliant.
And then how far – what’s the PCA [ph] deadband this year which before we had to start sharing with customers? Sure.
As you know this was an initiative which we took on to reduce our breadth from the downside at our last rate case and we now deadband ranges which are between $15 million and $30 million.
And as we mentioned we’re roughly at about $19 million.
So we’re estimating that we will be refunding with customers and sharing about $4 million for the quarter.
As a result of the last rate case those deadbands are now fixed wherein prior to the last rate case they were kind of moving targets.
$15 million is on the good side $30 million on the negative side.
Okay.
So that can be broken down by quarter it’s not – if we sort of under earn next quarter it doesn’t bounce out of the quarter (inaudible).
It’s a full-year.
Its full-year.
It’s a full-year cap.
Okay.
So it adds a little bit as a cushion [ph].
Okay.
And then just to confirm the sales were 10% overall but if we weather adjusted that that’s about 3% is it better? Yes.
Quarter-over-quarter.
Quarter-over-quarter.
And we are estimating about 1% for the full-year.
And just a cautionary note with regard to that with the low power price we have seen customers that are not on cost of service and impacting our bottom line pickup their usage.
As Jim mentioned it was largely high tech and then one popular paper customer.
Okay all right thank you.
Thanks Eric.
Our next question will come from Sarah Akers with Wells Fargo.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Sarah.
On the peaking RFP you have an online target date of 2013 to 2015.
Can you comment on that timeframe in kind of what are the factors that would drive the need for ‘013 online date versus ‘015 or are there other factors like cost that come into play? And then also what is the online target date of Portland self-build option in the peaking RFP? The timing of when those peaking resource comes on is really going to be dependent on what shows up in the RFP process as to when those resources maybe available.
To the extent someone already has excess capacity willing to sell into the RFP we would probably move sooner to acquire that because we do have a shortfall on capacity.
So a lot of its going to be dependent on the characteristics of the each bid in the RFP and when those resources will be available.
Our general sense is that the self-build option were to be successful we’d be looking at late ‘013 early 2014 timeframe to get a new resource built.
And that’s assuming that the RFP gets completed by the first quarter of 2012.
Okay great.
And then switching to renewables given the recent improvements for wind turbine pricing does that impact your plans or thinking on the timing of the new wind resources? And then related to that can you discuss kind of your ability to use the REX [ph] to meet the RES deadline and what factors you’re considering that would determine whether or not you go that route? So let’s talk about the wind turbine yes wind pricing turbine turbulent pricing of wind turbine has kind of moderated a little bit just with the exchange rate impacts as well as just the market.
The timing of the RFP for renewables is really dependent and that’s identifying a good self-build option.
We went through the RFP before we renew renewables we didn’t include the self-build option and we thought the bid just were way to high and too expensive for our customers given what we thought the market value for those types of resources were.
So one of the issues around the timing of the RFP for renewables is that’s been able to identify good self-build option so that we can feel like we have a rigorous process to ensure that we get the best pricing for our customers.
So that’s kind of where we are in that and we have not yet identified that self-build options but we’re still working on some alternatives in taking to developers about that.
As to the REX in the last IRP process the commission did want to explore our ability to use REX to meet the RES standard.
And we wouldn’t do to meet a large percentage of that standard we could use it to fill in where we’re short or where we have some holes in our commitments our client commitments.
So we are looking at that but my sense is those tend to be year to year and we would try to look at those just to fill in.
But we are looking at REX also as a way to meet our compliance requirements under the renewable energy standard.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Thanks Sarah.
We’ll now here from Stefka Gerova with JP Morgan.
Good morning.
Stefka your line is open.
If you’re on speaker phone please press mute function or pickup your handset.
Sorry about that.
It’s okay.
Go ahead Stefka.
Good morning and congratulations on strong results this quarter.
I had a question about your assumptions for the full-year build load of 1% and Maria you talked a little bit about that in your answer to Eric’s question.
But I am just kind of curious what your rational is behind that assumptions given the strong pickup that we’ve seen in the first quarter and do you expect some of the pickup on the industrial side whether that’s from the Portland paper customers or from the high tech customers to go away for the balance of the year to not be there? Sure.
Let me just give you a comment on the paper customer because what we work with – we work with our paper customers to try to find opportunities for them to take advantage of low prices in the energy markets.
And so they can kind of scale their production up and down based on energy pricing to help them be more competitive.
That’s related to one of our paper customers.
And so that can fluctuate their usage of our product but as Maria mentioned it produces minimal margin for the company.
So Maria would you like to give more detail on the overall load forecast? Sure.
And given the low market prices of power right now we made estimates for the full-year looking at the opportunistic usage that we probably saw pickup in the first quarter versus what’s underlying economic growth.
And we previously had accepted flat load for 2011 and have revised our estimate of 1%.
But we continue to see challenges within the economy while job growth in Oregon has improved and particularly versus the national average.
We still are coming out of a very difficult recessionary period and we believe that 1% is appropriate number.
There have been some good announcements in our service territory as you know Intel announced a major expansion in their facilities.
The solar companies are doing well in their business model.
So there has been some bright signs but this is going to be a slow recovery as we work through this challenging period.
Okay fair enough.
And what was the sales assumption embedded in your last rate case? It was roughly flat load from 2010 to 2011 which is our past year.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you Stefka.
(Operator Instructions) I think we’re done.
No further questions Mr.
Valach.
Okay thank you very much everyone for attending.
We appreciate your interest in Portland Generic Electric.
And invite you to join us when we report on second quarter 2011 results.
If you have any additional questions please contact Bill Valach who will be available after this call.
Thank you again for joining us today.
Thank you.
And again ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you all for your participation.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the Portland General Electric Company’s Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today is Friday August 5th 2011.
This call is being recorded and as such all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) For opening remarks I would like to turn the conference call over to Portland General Electric’s Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Bill Valach.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Nancy and good morning everyone.
We’re very pleased that you’re able to join us today.
Before we begin our discussion this morning I’d like to make our customary statements regarding Portland General Electric’s written and oral disclosures and commentary.
And there will be statements on this call that are not based on historical facts and as such constitute forward-looking statements under current law.
These statements are subject to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made today.
For a description of some of the factors that may occur that could cause such differences the company requests that you read our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Qs.
The Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2011 was available this morning at our website portlandgeneral.com.
The company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise and this Safe Harbor statement should be incorporated as part of any transcript of this call.
Portland General Electric’s second quarter earnings were released before the market opened today and the release is available at portlandgeneral.com.
Leading our discussion today are Jim Piro President and CEO and Maria Pope Senior Vice President of Finance CFO and Treasurer.
Jim will begin today’s presentation by providing a general overview of the quarter’s results and our strategic capital projects.
Then Maria will provide more detail around the quarterly results and key regulatory proceedings.
Following prepared remarks we will then open the lines up for your questions.
And I would like to turn the call over to Jim.
Thank you Bill.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Welcome to Portland General Electric’s 2011 second quarter earnings call.
We delivered strong operations during the second quarter.
With a continued increase in energy received from hydro resources combined with low cost purchase power we were able to effectively manage our power supply and economic we displayed a significant amount of our thermal generation.
I’m proud of the excellent work accomplished during the scheduled maintenance outages at two of our thermal plants.
Our T&amp;D system performed well and we continue to maintain high levels of customer satisfactions.
In addition to strong operations I’m very pleased with the significant progress we have made on regulatory and legal matters.
We have achieved a positive resolution concerning Senate Bill 408.
We made major progress towards implementing our Boardman 2020 plan.
And finally I’m pleased with the progress that PGE the Sierra Club and other environmental groups have made towards resolving a lawsuit related to Boardman filed in 2008.
The positive outcomes on these matters reflect a constructive process between PGE customer groups key stakeholders and other utilities and the results will create value for our customers and shareholders.
For the second quarter 2011 PGE’s net income was $22 million or $0.29 per diluted share compared to $24 million or $0.32 per diluted share for the second quarter 2010.
We are reaffirming our full-year 2011 earnings guidance of $1.90 to $2.05 per diluted share.
Now I will provide you an update on the economic outlook in our operating area.
We continue to experience customer growth with the addition of 3 000 new customers since the second quarter of 2010.
Oregon’s seasonally adjusted unemployment rates continue to decline and for June it was 9.4% for the state and 8.8% for the Portland metro area.
This compares to the U.S.
average of 9.2%.
Oregon’s economic recovery continues as Oregon’s payroll grew 2.7% annualized in the last six months versus 1.2% for the U.S.
Total retail energy deliveries on a weather adjusted basis increased approximately 2% compared to the second quarter 2010.
While we experienced increases in deliveries across all customers segments increase in load was driven primarily by the industrial sector.
We project that weather adjusted retail energy deliveries for 2011 will be approximately 1.8% above 2010 levels including the anticipated effects of energy efficiency measures.
However when you exclude the load growth of two large industrial customers in the paper sector weather adjusted retail energy deliveries for 2011 will be approximately 1% above 2010.
It’s important to keep in mind that a few of our large customers are able to access the wholesale energy markets directly through PGE.
So their production levels can vary widely based up on their market opportunities.
Now an update on our strategic initiatives starting with the operational excellence.
We continue to deliver excellent operating performance company wise.
On distribution reliability metrics remain strong and generation plant availability was high.
We successfully performed extensive work at our Boardman and Coyote Springs thermal plant during their scheduled maintenance outages.
We continue to make progress on the Boardman 2020 plan to address new regional haze requirement.
We replaced the plant’s burners which are expected to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions by more than 50%.
In addition we installed emission controls that are expected to remove 90% of the plant’s mercury emissions.
To date PGE’s portion of the capital spend on the Boardman emissions controls project is approximately $17 million.
The total cost of all of the emission controls is estimated approximately $60 million excluding AFDCs.
At the Coyote Springs plant we upgraded the gas turbine increasing the plant’s output by 12.1% and improved efficiency by 3.7%.
I’m extremely pleased with the results of both of these projects which are on time and on budget.
We continue to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction.
Based on second quarter results we ranked in the top decile for residential customers and the top quartile for general business and large industrial customers.
Recently J.D.
Powers rank PGE third in the nation for overall satisfaction in their 2011 electric utility residential customer satisfaction study.
Our leadership team continues to put a special emphasis on operational improvements and sustainable cost efficiencies for the long term.
We are meeting early milestones on a number of initiatives already underway.
These targeted projects are focused on streamlining operations by leveraging technology and improving work processes in order to increase the value of the service we provide to our customers while reducing our costs.
Now I’ll move on to the progress we are making in executing our integrated resource plan action plan and our future investment opportunities.
Our IRP action plan which was acknowledged by the OPUC last November includes energy efficiency measures as well as the addition of new renewable resources and gas-fired generation and transmission projects to meet our future retail load requirements.
To achieve a generation portion in the plan we will conduct three separate competitive bidding processes to acquire new resources.
The first bidding process is the Capacity RFP which has three components.
First approximately 200 megawatts of flexible year-round peaking supply.
Second approximately 200 megawatts of winter and summer peaking supply.
And third approximately 150 megawatts of winter-only peaking supply.
We plan to bring these resources online in the 2013 to 2015 timeframe.
The next startup peak seeks approximately 120 average megawatts of renewal resources to meet – to help meet Oregon’s renewal energy standards.
We plan to bring these resources online as needed to meet Oregon’s 2015 renewal energy standard requirements of 15%.
Finally the base load RFP peaks approximately 300 to 500 megawatts of base loads high efficiency natural gas fueled generation.
We plan to bring this resource online in the 2015 to 2017 timeframe.
In the each of the three competitive bidding processes we plan to include our own self build options to compete with the market bids.
The process for the capacity resources will be completed in early 2012.
The process for renewable and base load resources will likely be completed by late 2012 or early 2013.
The IRP action plan also includes our Cascade Crossing transmission project.
We have been working hard with other stakeholders in the region in planning the project.
As we continue this process we have adjusted Cascade Crossing scheduled to allow additional time for the extensive amount of work required for permitting a project of this size.
Subject to obtaining all necessary approvals the in-service timings for the project is estimated to be between late 2016 and 2017.
Once we have completed the RFP processes we will have better clarity on our future equity and debt financing needs.
The amount and timing of these financings is depended on the outcome and timing of the competitive bidding processes our Cascade Crossing transmission project PGE’s financial performance and capital market conditions.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Maria Pope our Chief Financial Officer to discuss our financial and operating results in greater details.
Good morning.
Thank you Jim.
Today I’ll cover financial results for the quarter review our operating performance provide an update on key regulatory items and concludes with the liquidity and financing.
Second quarter 2011 net income was $22 million or $0.29 per diluted share compared to $24 million or $0.32 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2010.
Total operating revenues for the second quarter were $411 million a decrease of $4 from the second quarter of 2010.
The decrease resulted from a $9 million decrease in wholesale sales offsets by an increase in retail and other revenues.
Retail revenues were up 1% or $4 million from the second quarter of 2010.
Due to a 3% increase in retail energy deliveries which was driven by a combination of cooler and normal temperatures and decreased – increased demand from the industrial sector.
And a $9 million increase in average retail prices largely from the 3.9% increase authorized as part of the 2011 General Rate Case.
These are offsets by $18 million decrease for rest of the power cost adjustment mechanism or PCAM decoupling and SB 408 compared with a year ago.
And seasonally cool weather led to higher energy deliveries to our residential customers.
We estimated that weather resulted in a positive impact of about $0.08 per share in the quarter compared to $0.03 per share in the second quarter of 2010.
Whether also had an impact on purchased power and fuel expense which decreased 9% quarter-over-quarter.
PGE received an increased amount of energy from PGE owned and contracted hydro resources as River run off is currently at a 130% of normal.
With abundant hydro in the Northwest wholesale market prices are low.
As such we economically did place a significant amount of our thermal generation and increased market purchases.
Excluding impacts of the peaking hydro generation results in a positive pre-tax impact of approximately $4 million in the second quarter compared to a negative impact of approximately $1 million in the second quarter of 2010.
Wind generation specifically Biglow Canyon provided 10% of PGE’s retail load requirement compared to 6% in the second quarter of last year.
This increase was primarily due to the completion of the final phase of our Biglow Canyon Wind Farm in August of 2010.
Biglow was curtailed periodically in May and June due to BPA or Bonneville Power Administrations Environmental Redispatch policy.
While the curtailment resulted in lost renewable energy credits and production tax credits the overall financial impact was not material.
As Jim mentioned in the second quarter we successfully completed extensive scheduled maintenance at both the Boardman and Coyote plants which resulted in increased production and distribution expense and impacted the availability of our generating plants.
For the first half of 2011 availability was 88% compared to 92% in the first half of 2010.
Now I’ll update you on a few regulatory items starting with our power cost adjustment mechanism or PCAM.
For 2011 the PCAM’s deadband range is from 15 million below to 30 million above the baseline for net variable power costs.
With strong hydro condition and low cost purchase power actual net variable power costs were approximately $29 million below the baseline for the first six months of 2011.
This compares to being 9 million below the baseline for the first six months of 2010.
Net variable power cost for the full-year currently estimated to be below the baseline as well as lower deadband threshold.
With PGE expected to exceed its regulated earnings test of 11% return on equity we have recorded a refund to customers of approximately $12 million year-to-date comprised of $4 million in the first quarter and $8 million in the second quarter.
Under the PCAM as we’ve exceeded the dead band range and are up 11% return on equity on a regulated basis we share power cost improvements with customers.
In the second quarter and through the end of the year 90% of additional power cost benefits were refunded back to customers.
Decoupling is working as we expected.
With residential use up in the second quarter we have recorded a $1 million refund compared to a $3 million collection in the second quarter of 2010.
Now we’ll move on to SB 408 or this complex tax loss.
On previous calls we spent a lot of time discussing the complexity of these losses and informed you that we would work hard to resolve the volatile and unpredictable impact with those customers prices and earnings.
After extensive collaboration with customer groups and other Northwest Utilities I’m pleased to inform you that SB 408 was officially repealed by the Senate Bill 967 in May.
This positive outcome would not have been possible without the leadership of both the Utility Commission and the legislature.
SB 967 appeals the problematic annual true up.
The analysis of taxes will remain a component while conducting general rate case proceedings.
For both 2010 and 2011 PGE has de minimus amounts recorded related to SB 408 and there were no adjustments due to the repeal.
Now a regulatory update on Boardman.
Recently the OPUC approved a regularly filing for the recovery of increased depreciation expense and decommissioning cost reflecting the change in the retirement date of the Boardman plan to 2020.
This resulted in an increase in customer prices of approximately 1% effective July 1st.
Now on to financing and liquidity.
We are active in the wholesale marketplace entering into forward contracts for natural gas and power to manage our exposure to commodity risk and minimize volatility for our customers.
As of June 30th we posted approximately $174 million in collaterals with wholesale counterparties which consisted a $68 million in cash and $106 million in letters of credit.
This compares to $263 million in collateral posted with wholesale counterparties at year-end.
We have credits of $600 million in revolving lines of which $474 million was available at June 30.
Including the addition of $72 million in cash our total liquidity at the end of second quarter was $546 million.
Well we target a capital structure of 50% debt and 50% equity.
Periodically we are higher or lower.
On June 30 our equity ratio was 48%.
For 2011 we estimate capital expenditures of preliminary engineering to be approximately $330 million.
For 2012 we are currently forecasting in the 10-Q $270 million of capital expenditures and based on the approval of projects excluding the outcome of the RFP that Jim discussed were likely to expand approximately 300 million next year.
In closing we continue to focus on financial objectives that support our core utility business earning and more competitive return on equity and a strong balance sheet to support our investment grade credit ratings.
Jim? Thank you Maria.
Second quarter 2011 performance reflects our focus on operational excellence including the strong power supply operation successful execution of extensive upgrades at two of our thermal plants customer satisfaction and prudent management of our operating costs.
We are moving forward with implementation of our Boardman 2020 plan as well as our IRP action plans.
And we will continue to position the company for our future investment opportunities that deliver value to our customers and a comparative return for our shareholders.
Operator we would now like to open the call for questions.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions).
And we’ll take the first question from Neil Mehta from Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
Good morning Neil.
Jim Maria just want to start off on the rate case timing.
When do you expect to file your next rate case? Neil that we continue to look at our year I think right now our plan would be not to file our rate case to probably for the 2014 test year.
So we’d probably file in early 2013.
That’s just based on our base – our current projections assuming you know load continues to grow in the region that we don’t see a backslide in the economy.
Got it.
So Jim in the absence of rate increases how do you grow earnings in 2012 and 2013? Well in terms of our earnings that’s really depended on a number of factors.
First it’s load growth in the region.
Secondly our investment in rate base and those will continue as we get clarity on our renewable or in our RFP processes.
So you know we will continue to look for investment opportunities to grow our earnings and that’s really the model to do that.
Maria do you want to add anything to that? Sure as we look carefully the next couple of years the backdrop I think that we were pleased with our 2011 rate case and the recoveries that we achieved through that.
And then in the Oregon as Jim talked about in his prepared remarks we are seeing load growth.
And in particular the Intel expansions as well as suppliers to Intel are growing very rapidly.
We’re seeing construction growth actually in the trade’s area up about 6.8% versus a year ago.
So we have good confidence in our ability to be able to continue to grow earnings to investor or our customers over the next couple of years and prudently manage our rates as we then add capital projects with the renewable and capacity projects probably first and then base load energy after that should we win the RFPs.
And if that would probably trigger be more of a catalyst for our next rate case than concerns over earnings.
Got it Maria.
And do you think you can keep O&amp;M below the demand growth? You know if you look at our track record over the last couple of years particularly on the A&amp;G side we’ve really done a good job of managing our O&amp;M.
And the increase that you see in our production area most recently is a result of the maintenance outages that Jim spoke about it both the Coyote and the Boardman facilities which were well reflected in customer prices and then also an outage that took place at the Colstrip plants.
So we have good confidence.
We’re doing a number of things to be more cost effective than efficient throughout the company and leverage our investments in IT technology for the benefit of customers.
All right.
And then my last question is how should we think about the second half of 2011? What are the key drivers positives and negatives to get to your guidance? Well a couple of things in that.
First of all we need to continue to see – the economy continue to grow and it’s a not a back step in that and all indications are that that looks like it’s going to occur.
Secondly our power plants need to continue to operate well.
We’re now kind of get and see into the high growth season in the end of the run off so now it’s really a matter of our power plants continue to operate well and third hopefully no storms or major incidences on the T&amp;D side.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
We’ll take the next question from Sarah Akers from Wells Fargo.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Sarah.
Can you remind us which customer class is the decoupling mechanism applied still? It applies to our residential and very small commercial customers.
Okay.
And it’s based on use for customer calculation and then for that the small commercial it’s based on loss revenue calculation about 60% of our customers qualify under the decoupling mechanism.
Okay.
So if it’s the – just per use for customer yield still benefit from customer growth that will flow through? Yeah.
We still benefit for customer growth and the use for customers on weather adjusted basis.
So we have – we just – the actual usage for weather and then now we compare that to the last rate case and that’s the majority of where the decoupling goes through.
Right.
And do you think the thing that effects that the most is energy efficiency.
So certain customers put more energy efficiency measures in our – maybe take greater conservation measures that’s what they use for customer would go down and to the extent they include new appliances and new uses – use for customer would go up.
That is the decoupling normalizes for us.
Great and then I just want to make sure if I heard this correctly in terms of when we will get clarity on equity and financing needs? You will probably wait until all three RFPs wrapped up before you have a good sense of timing of equity and things of that nature is that correct? I don’t take all three.
But at least we need to get the first one done on the capacity and if we’re successful there.
Then we will have to look at equity need that where the markets are.
That’s not a big project for the company but I will take one at a time probably and then look at each and how best to finance them as we set ourselves for the next RFP process.
Great thanks a lot.
Next – pardon me.
The next question comes from Andrew Wiesel from Macquarie Capital.
Hi good morning.
On the three RFPs can you remind us the timing of when you expect to file the RFPs and how the decisions be finalized? Okay.
On the first RFP the capacity of RFP that is right now before the commission for a decision.
We had to briefing I think last week and we’re now trying to resolve a few issues that were raised in that open proceedings before the commission.
Once the commission issued the decision we would immediately start the RFP for capacity and we would like to complete that by end of this year that’s our hope.
But it really depends on the commission’s decision in terms of when that whole process starts.
But that would be first decision and again we would like to get that done by the end of 2012 early 2013.
To the extent we’re the successful winner of the bid.
We will start construction immediately and it probably takes us about two years to construct that project.
The other two bidding bids will start later this year or early next year depending on when we can line up our choices for competitive bidding or self-build options.
We likely will complete those by late 2012 or early 2013.
Though we’re in the process of just getting one done at a time we want to try and do this in a good sequence so we don’t want to overburden our staff work to through the process and so that’s our current plan at this point.
All right great.
And then on this 10 year local economies doing fairly well relative to the country at least should there be a meaningful slowdown how much of risk of this RFP process could be pushed back any kind of meaningful amount of time? Well.
As you know we are a short utility.
We didn’t – don’t have enough generation to meet our retail load and we have a significant capacity deficit as well as an energy deficit and we really need to address that.
So this isn’t necessary to meet additional low growth but this is to fill the hole that we currently have as hydro contracts go away and we’ve been relying on the market and the markets starting to get not as robust as it used to be.
So the economy has a minimal impact on these decisions because of the significant deficit we have on both the capacity side as well as the energy side.
Terrific.
Thank you very much.
We’ll go next to Mike (inaudible) from D.
A.
Davidson.
Hi good morning guys.
I wanted to come back to the earlier question on your O&amp;M.
Maria; you said that a large chuck of the increase in this quarter was tied to the plant maintenance outages.
Is that correct? Yes.
All right.
Does it reflect the full affect that – of the maintenance outages or would that be stretching into the future quarters as well? No it reflects full amount.
And in the first quarter we had about $42 million of production O&amp;M and in the second quarter it was about $55 million.
So you can see the increase.
Last year we were at about $46 million during the same period when we had less maintenance at the facilities.
So we expect to go more into a steady state non-maintenance further expense period.
Okay.
And can you remind us if you have other maintenance outages coming up in the next 18 months or so? Well we have the next – in the next 18 months we do because we will probably take maintenance outages next spring also related to the facilities but not as extensive as the significant upgrades that we made at both Boardman and in particular Coyote this past spring.
A couple of things just to – a couple things to note on that.
These maintenance outages were consistent with what we planned in the rate case.
And so we did forecast that cost for these maintenance outages in the rate case.
Second thing as we look at maintenance outages in 2012 those get reflected in our – let’s call it our AUT filing.
And so the extend of shorter or longer those get back into our power cost as we plan for next June.
All right.
Thank you.
Thanks Mike.
We’ll move next to Steven Gambuzza from Longbow Capital.
Good morning.
Good morning Steve.
Good morning Steve.
Hi can you hear me? Yep.
Okay.
Sorry I’m sorry if you’ve answered this already I just wanted to ask about the $8 million approval for the peaking did you mentioned earlier? Sure yeah.
So let me...
Just was that related to your – you took an accrual for what the expected impact of power cost is going to be for the second half of the year? It was $12 million total for the second half of the year and $8 million for the second quarter.
As we look at the power cost were very significant in the first quarter and we kept most of that in terms of the P&amp;L.
When he hit over the debt band of $15 million and then the ROE at 11% we then began a 90/10 sharing with customers.
And so in the first quarter we expected that our refund would be for that about $4 million and then $8 million in the second quarter for a year-to-date total of $12.
Okay I’m sorry.
Is that for you – in the second quarter you booked $4 million – sorry $8 million related to the second quarter and then an additional $4 million for you anticipate will be the refund for the rest of the year? Yes exactly no excuse me no; it’s the $4 million in the first quarter $8 million in the second quarter and $12 million year-to-date.
Okay so you booked – okay you haven’t booked anything in anticipation of what you think is going to happen in the second half? No we don’t do that.
What we do is we do look at the full year expectation around earnings and make an adjustment with regards to what we expect to refund based on that 11% ROE.
Okay thank you very much.
Yeah.
Just one final question.
You mentioned that the RFP for the peaker is before the commission you hope to have it by the end of the year and then a two year construction period so that would – that would be in service near the end of ‘13.
Is – would you expect that would be the first resources that would be bought in the rate base? Or is it possible that one of the renewable RFPs should come in before that? I think right now our current view is the capacity resources would be the first one to come in.
The extended renewable through a bidding process was available didn’t have to be constructed and then we would put it in place through the renewable energy adjustment clause and we track that in separately.
That’s the nice thing about the renewable.
They can be tracked in separately but then year – they come into service.
So a lot of that will depend on what we get out of the renewable RFP whether it’s just construction or its maybe a project that’s bid in that’s already constructed.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
(Operator Instructions).
Okay and I think that’s it.
Well thank you very much for participating in the call.
In closing we continue to focus on our financial objectives that support our core utility business earning a more competitive return on equity and a strong balance sheet to support our investment grade credit ratings.
Thanks so much for participation on the call.
And we look forward to our future call in the third quarter.
Thanks a lot That does conclude today’s presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Portland General Electric Company’s Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today is Thursday November 3 2011.
This call is being recorder and as such all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
(Operator instructions).
For opening remarks I would like to turn the conference call over to Portland General Electric’s Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Bill Valach please go ahead sir.
Thank you Jay [ph].
And good morning everyone and we’re very pleased that you’re able to join us today.
Before we begin our discussion this morning I’d like to make our customary statements regarding Portland General Electric’s written and oral disclosures and commentary.
There will be statements in this call that are not based on historical facts and as such constitute forward-looking statements under current law.
These statements are subject to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made today.
For a description in some of the factors that may occur that could cause such differences the company requests that you read our most recent form 10-K and form 10-Qs.
The form 10–Q for the third quarter 2011 was available this morning at portlandgeneral.com.
The company undertakes no obligation to update publicly in any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information information future events or otherwise.
These safe harbor statements should be incorporated as any part – as part of any transcript of this call.
Portland General Electric’s third quarter earnings were released before the market opened today and the release is available at portlandgeneral.com.
Leading our discussion today are Jim Piro President and CEO and Maria Pope Senior Vice President of Finance CFO and Treasurer.
Jim will begin today’s presentation by providing a general overview of the quarter’s result and our strategic capital projects then Maria will provide more detail around the quarterly results and key regulatory proceedings.
Following prepared remarks we will open the lines for your questions and now it’s my pleasure to turn the call over to Jim.
Thank you Bill good morning and thank you for joining us.
Welcome to Portland General Electric’s 2011 Third Quarter Earnings Call.
We delivered strong operational performance in all sectors of our business during the quarter.
As a result of the continued increase in energy received from hydro resources combined with low cost purchase power we were also able to effectively manage our power supply and economically displaced a significant amount of our thermal generation.
We also continued to move forward to implement our business strategy to meet the growing energy needs of our customers.
Now on to the quarter’s results.
PGE’s net income for third quarter 2011 was $27 million or $0.36 per diluted share compared to $49 million or $0.65 per diluted share for the third quarter 2010.
It is important to note that there were some non-recurring items that positively impact the third quarter last year with the most significant being $20 million pretax collection for SB 408.
This amount was reversed in the fourth quarter 2010.
We are reaffirming our full year 2011 earnings guidance of $1.90 to $2.05 per diluted share and plan to provide 2012 earnings guidance in our fourth quarter earnings release schedule for February of next year.
Now let’s move on to the economic outlook in our operating area.
We continue to see customer growth with the addition of 2400 new customers since the third quarter of 2010.
According to the Oregon employment department Oregon seasonally adjusted unemployment rate remained flat at 9.6% in September.
This compares to the U.S.
average of 9.1%.
Oregon’s private sector payroll grew faster then the national average with growth of 2.3% in the last nine months compared to the same period last year versus 1.6% for the U.S.
The Oregon office of economic analysis forecast that jobs in Oregon will continue to grow faster than the U.S.
average during the next several years.
Growth is likely to be concentrated in higher wage jobs reflecting activity and high technology manufacturing as illustrated by the substantial expansion project currently underway at Intel.
Including the effects of energy efficiency measures PGE’s weather adjusted retail energy deliveries increased approximately 0.7% in the third quarter 2011 compared to third quarter 2010.
This increase was driven by growth in the industrial sector specifically the paper production industry excluding two large paper companies total weather adjusted deliveries for the quarter would have declined 0.4% compared to 2010.
This decline driven by lower than anticipated residential loads during July and August has led us to revise our projected weather adjusted deliveries for the full year of 2011.
From an increase of 1% to an increase of approximately one-half of a percent.
This again excludes the impacts of the two large paper production customers noted previously.
One of which has access to the wholesale market through PGE at prevailing market prices.
While weather adjusted residential demand began to increase again in September we do not believe growth over the remainder of the year will make up for the reduced demand during the summer.
The revenue impact of reduced loads during the third quarter is partially offset by our decoupling mechanism which Maria will discuss later.
Now an update on our strategic initiatives starting with operational excellence.
We continue to deliver excellent operating performance company wide during the third quarter.
Our distribution reliability metrics remain strong and generation plan availability was high.
The gas turbine upgrade we completed during the second quarter at our Coyote Springs Plant is performing at a higher level than expected with a 12% increase in production versus our expectation of approximately 7%.
We also continue to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction.
Based on third quarter results we continue to rank in the top cortile for overall customer satisfaction among residential and general business customers and in the top textile [ph] for large industrial customers.
Our leadership team continues to put a special emphasis on operational improvements and sustainable cost efficiencies of the long term.
We are meeting early milestones on a number of initiative already underway.
These company wide programs are focused on streamlining operations by leveraging technology and refining work processes.
Our goal is to reduce the cost of service we provide to our customers while maintaining top cortile customer satisfaction.
Now an update on our resource strategy starting with an update on Boardman.
We continue to make progress on the Boardman 2020 plan to address the new air emission requirements at our coal–fired facilities.
New low–nox burners installed this spring to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions are functioning well.
Retrofits to control mercury emission have also performed well in testing this fall.
We expect to place the mercury control system in full operation late this year or early next year.
We are waiting action on the EPA utility MACT rule.
PGE and other submitted comments to EPA this summer regarding the compatibility of the agencies proposed rules with our Boardman 2020plan.
EPA recently requested a one month extension to December 16th to issue those final rules.
Now I’ll move on to our integrated resource plant which the Oregon Public Utility Commission acknowledged last November.
Our IRP action plan includes energy efficiency measures as well as the addition of new renewable resources gas–fired base load and peaking generation and transmission to meet our retail load requirements.
We submitted a draft request for proposals for capacity of resources to the OPUC in July and plan to submit separate RFPs for energy and new renewable resources.
However the OPUC issued an order in September directing us to combine our capacity and energy RFPs.
We expect this to delay the decision on both capacity and energy resources by six to 12 months and we will work collaboratively with the commission and stake holders to determine the most effective structure for the combined RFP.
We still expect the combined RFP to include PGE benchmark resources to compete with other market bids.
In the meantime preparations are also under way to present a draft RFP for renewable resources to the commission for approval which should result in a short list of potential renewable projects by mid 2012.
We intend to bring the selected resources online as needed to meet Oregon’s Renewable portfolio standard requirements for 2015.
PGE plans to include a benchmark resource in this RFP as well.
The IRP action plan also includes our Cascade Crossing Transmission Project.
We’ve been working with stakeholders in the region to plan the project and are preparing to file a site certificate application with the State of Oregon in the first quarter of 2012.
Subject to obtaining all necessary approvals the project is expected to be in service in late 2016 or early 2017.
We are pleased that President Obama’s administration recently named the Cascade Crossing Project as one of seven grid modernization pilot projects to participate in a new federal Rapid Response Team process.
The goal of the Rapid Response Team is to streamline federal permitting and increase cooperation at the federal state and tribal levels.
Cascade Crossing’s inclusion reflects the project’s importance to our region as well as the collaborative approach we’ve already put in place with government agencies and other regional utilities to address planning and permitting requirements.
Our future equity and debt financing needs will be driven by the structure and timing of these projects I’ve just discussed.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Maria Pope our Chief Financial Officer to discuss our financial and operating results in greater detail.
Thanks Jim.
Good morning.
Today I’ll cover financial results for the quarter review operating performance and provide an update on key regulatory items and conclude with liquidity and financing.
Third Quarter 2011 net income was $27 million or $0.36 per diluted share compared to $49 million or $0.65 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2010.
This decrease is primarily due to a pretax $20 million collection recorded in the third quarter of 2010 related to the regulatory treatment of income taxes under Senate Bill 408.
This collection was reversed in the fourth quarter of 2010.
And as you know Senate Bill 408 is now behind us.
Net income was also impacted by a pretax $4 million loss related to a decline in the fair value of non–qualified benefit plan trust assets in the third quarter of 2011 compared to a pretax $3 million gain in the third quarter of 2010.
Excluding the decrease for Senate Bill 408 total operating revenues for the third quarter we’re largely flat compared to the third quarter 2010.
A 3.9% price increase authorized in the 2011 general rate case and a 1% price increase related to the shortened operating life and decommissioning cost of the Boardman’s coal plant resulted in a revenue increase of $14 million.
Additionally retail energy deliveries increased approximately $5 million.
These amounts were offset by several items including a power cost adjustment mechanism or PCAM’s refund of $4 million in the third quarter of 2011.
A refund reversal of $6 million in the third quarter of 2010 and the renewable adjustment clause revenue requirement increase of $8 million in the third quarter of 2010 related to Biglow Canyon phase three coming online.
(inaudible) is working as expected.
With residential use down in the third quarter of 2011 we recorded a $1 million collection compared to no collection or refund in the Third Quarter of 2010.
This partially offsets the revenue impact a reduced load that Jim mentioned earlier.
In the third quarter of 2011 PGE received 24% more energy from PGE owned and contracted hydro resources than in the third quarter of last year.
As river run off as averaged significantly above normal.
Overall purchase power and fuel expense decreased 10% quarter-over-quarter.
With abundant hydro in the northwest also market prices were low.
Consequently we economically displaced a significant amount of our thermal generation with wholesale power purchases.
As a result thermal generation supplied only 35% of retail load in the third quarter of 2011 compared to 50% of retail load in the same period of 2010 excluding impacts of the portion of power cost refunded to customers.
PGE owned and contracted hydro generation resulted in a positive pretax impact of approximately 4 million in the third quarter of 2011 compared to a negative pretax impact of approximately 3 million in the third quarter of 2010.
Wind generation provided 8% of PGE’s retail load requirement in the third quarter of this year compared to 7% of the third quarter of last year.
This increase looks primarily due to the completion the final phase of Biglow Canyon in August of last year.
PGE has several sites that qualify under Oregon’s Renewable portfolio standard.
These include the Biglow Canyon two contracted generation sites and 50 average megawatts of low impact hydro.
We expect renewable generations from these sites to supply approximately 10% of our retail requirements in 2011.
Now I’ll update you on a few regulatory items.
For 2011 the PCAM dead range is from $50 million below to 30 million above the baseline for net variable power cost.
After which a 90–10 sharing occurred.
As we’ve discussed favorable hydro conditions and low cost wholesale power resulted in actual net variable power cost seeing approximately 36 million below the baseline for the first nine months of 2011.
This compares to 11 million below the baseline for the first nine months of 2010.
Under the PCAM as net variable power cost are below the dead band and we are expected to exceed an 11% regulated return on equity we have recorded an estimated power cost refund to customer of 16.5 million year–to–date of which 4 million was recorded in the first quarter and 8 million in the second quarter.
And the third quarter refund would have been approximately 7 million.
However the 11% regulated ROE earnings test reduced our refund for the quarter to approximately 4 million.
PGE filed our estimates of power cost for 2012 earlier this year.
Yesterday the OPUC issued an order of the 2012 annual power cost update (inaudible) which resulted in less than 0.5% change from our original filing.
And approximately a 1% decrease in customer prices effective January 1st 2012.
Now I’ll move on to operation and maintenance expenses.
Third quarter O&amp;M expenses were up as forecasted in 2011 general rate case.
Production and distribution expense increased 8 million in the third quarter 2011 compared to the third quarter last year driven by labor and material expenses related the planned operating and maintenance at our thermal plant an increased information technology cost.
In addition administrative and general expense increased 8 million quarter-over-quarter primarily from the increased legal fees prior employee benefit expenses and effective compensation.
Now on to financing and liquidity.
We are active in the wholesale marketplace entering into forward contracts for natural gas and power to manage our exposure to commodity price risk and minimize volatility for our customers.
As of September 30th we posted approximately 151 million collateral with wholesale counterparties with consisted 83 million in cash and 68 million in letters [ph] of credit.
This compares to approximately 354 million in collateral posted with wholesale counterparties as of September 30 2010.
We have 600 million in revolving lines of credit of which 511 million were available as of September 30th including the addition of 97 million in cash our total liquidity at the end of the third quarter was 608 million.
While we target a capital structure of 50% debt and 50% equity periodically we are higher or lower.
As of September 30th our equity ratio was 48%.
We estimate capital expenditures and preliminary engineering to be approximately 300 million in 2011 and about the same for 2012.
In closing we continue to focus on financial objective to support our core utility business earning a more competitive return on equity and maintaining a strong balance sheet to support our investment grade credit ratings.
Thank you.
Jim? Thank you Maria.
Third quarter of 2011 performance reflects our focus on operational excellence including continued flexibility in our power supply operations high customer satisfaction and prudent management of our operating cost.
We are moving forward with implementation of our Boardman 2020 plan as well as our IRP action plan.
And we will continue to position the company for future investment opportunities that deliver value to our customers and a competitive return for our shareholders.
Operator we would now like to open the call for questions.
(Operator instructions).
And we’ll go first to Sarah Akers with Wells Fargo.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Sarah.
Can you talk about the revised schedule for the RFP? I know you said that the combined will put about a 6 to 12-month delay but in terms of – if you’re winning the – if you’re self-build option is a winning bid when is the earliest you could begin construction on a peaking gas unit under the revised timeline? Generally the schedule we’re looking at – and I’ll start with the combined capacity and energy RFP we would hope to issue to draft RFP to the commission probably by the end of the year.
We’re still working on trying to put those two RFPs together and get all the language developed.
Then it’s going to take at least about a quarter we hope for the commission to issue an order on that RFP and that’s really the wildcard how long it takes to get to that regulatory process but by the end of the first quarter the PUC has rendered their decision on the RFP we would then start the process with the hope that by the end of the second quarter we might have a short list.
So that kind of generally what we’re looking at for the combined capacity and energy resource.
In terms of the timing of the project obviously we’d have to win the bid first to have – give you a better clarity on when we would start construction.
But right now I think the plan would be to add the capacity resource first and then followed by the energy resource.
So we’ve allowed certain timeframes for those projects to come online and a lot of that will depend on what comes to the bidding process.
On the renewable RFP again we would hope to issue a draft RFP to the commission by the end of the year.
Again by the end of the second – by the end of the first quarter we would hope to again have a commission decision on that RFP at which point we would start that RFP process and again we would hope by the middle of the year or the end of the second quarter to have a short list of renewable you know short list of projects for that renewable RFP So you know the process is still very fluid and the big wildcard is how long it’s going to take the commission to get through the process and issue a decision on the appropriateness of the RFP so that we could then start the process.
On the renewable side those goals we’re trying to hit is it by 2015 we have to get to 15% renewables and so we will add those selected resources as necessary to meet that 15%.
Again in the renewable RFP we are planning to put a self-build option in to compete with market bids.
Thank you very much.
And then quickly on cascade crossing how much of that project is – how much would your CapEx be of that project? You know the project is somewhere between $800 million to $1 billion and it really depends on whether we build a single circuit or a double circuit line and if we build a double circuit line we would likely have a partner in the project that we take some of the capacity as we’ve mentioned before.
We have been in discussions with Pacific Core and they do have interest – a share of the line.
We’re also that working with Bonnabel Power on their interest in the line and what capacity they might want on that line so much of that commercial discussion is going on.
So you know if it’s a single circuit line just for our needs it would be somewhere in the $800 million range double circuit it’d be a billion but then we would take – we wouldn’t take the whole project down there’d be other partners that would have a share of the project.
So you know we’re still kind of in the fluid state of trying to figure out exactly the commercial operation – commercial arrangements with the various counter parties and that would form us on the exact sides of the project in the investment.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
Hey Jim.
Hi Maria.
Good morning.
Hi Neil.
So on demand it’s coming a little softer on a weather normal basis than was guided to this year.
What do you attribute the Delta 2 especially in light of some of the good things we’re seeing in the local economy including the D1X project? You know the softness in the third quarter was really in the residential sector and that could have been due to the culmination of weather and maybe additional conservation measures that customers might have been putting in place; we saw some rebound in September.
So we generally feel like that maybe just be a short lift in the curve.
We are seeing some very good activity in the commercial market obviously with Intel D1X project and the supporting people that will bring in facilities to support that project.
That’s going to add a significant number of jobs.
They also – other company SolarWorld continue to look at expansions and we have another solar company looking in the Portland area to construct facility.
So generally we see some positive signs Bowen is doing well.
That’s sort of our large customers here and they’re doing well also.
So there’s some really good signs in some of the commercial industrial sectors and so I think with the softness in the residential market might have been a combination of just the conservation measures people are putting in place during the summer and we didn’t have really warm weather also so that could have been some of the impact.
The long term annual load growth forecast I think is 1.7% right including energy efficiency.
Does this make you – you think about that guidance in any way? No not really.
I think we feel like you know over the long term those numbers look right you know and a lot of them will depend on how quickly Intel and some of those customers come online and expand their facility.
So there might be some timing issues as they continue to you know get that facility constructed and in the service.
So there may be some you know some moving around that number but a lot of it will be just timing issues a little bit in terms of what Intel is doing.
Got it.
And then on the O&amp;M side what are the levers that you have over the next couple of years as we – as we get through at least some period of time without a rate case to manage the return? Two things that – maybe detail around some of the other corporate cost but we are going to a pretty significant efficiency effort within the company the streamliner operations by using technology and so we’re doing a number of projects in the company that will improve our performance and get better service at lower cost.
And those projects are starting to come online next year and will continue for the next couple of years.
That will hopefully help moderate our cost.
We have a number of retirements because we have an aging work force about a third of our employees potentially retiring in the next seven to eight years that we can take advantage of those retirements by using technology and up scaling our employees and taking advantage of that.
So those are some of the things we’re doing on the operation side.
The other thing is we’re looking on the generation side for a continued efficiency improvements of the plant through generation excellence and reliability center maintenance to really improve our plant performance.
Maria you want to talk on the purpose side? Sure.
You know I think we really have cost reductions in every area of the company.
And there’s a very disciplined effort to be able to capture these on a sustainable basis.
As Jim mentioned we’re leveraging new technology.
We have new systems being put in place having just implemented on the corporate side new supply chain financial and other related systems that are already reaping some benefits.
And then finally rate case timing.
How are you thinking about it? I know some of the moving pieces with the RFPs have to change the way you’re thinking about the timing.
In addition we’re very fortunate to be in a service territory where there is quite a bit of growth coming online led by Intel but really across many of our industrial sectors.
And with that combined with really prudent and careful cost reductions leave us to have some flexibility around our rate cases.
And so we’re currently looking at a rate case in about 2014 that would be the effective test year which is pretty consistent with what we talked about on the call last time.
Got it.
Thank you so much Jim Maria.
Thanks Neil.
Thank you.
Moving right up to James Bellessa with DA Davidson.
Good morning.
Good morning Jim [ph].
The energy efficiency question was answered.
So I have two other questions.
The pattern of depreciation and amortization last year and this year with their first and second quarters is at one level.
And then it jumps up in the third quarter.
Is there something seasonal that happens in the third quarter? What happens in particular is that the amortization of Boardman came online and so that jumped it up.
We also had some slight adjustments in other miscellaneous areas in the Third Quarter.
But you should see roughly the run rate would be pretty consistent going forward with where we are right now as Boardman will be there through the balance of its life.
And the tax rate do you have any advice on what tax rate we should be looking at going forward? Sure.
As you probably have figured it out our tax rate year-to-date is about 26% and for the quarter was about 29%.
The biggest issue affecting our tax rate is really production tax credits and those that we’re receiving as the wind blows at our Biglow Canyon wind farm.
But on average we’ve been on an annual basis just under about 30%.
That’s sort of what I would use for your model.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Jim.
(Operator instructions).
We’ll go next to Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Mark.
A lot of the questions are already answered so just a couple of smaller issues.
On the industrial customer account I know you’ve had a lot of positive developments there.
But is the lower number of the industrial account due mostly to switching to direct access? No.
At this point in time that’s not the case.
There were not any – in the quarter there were not any movement on direct to access.
What we saw was just slight changes.
They’re for about 182 158 and that’s really on a year–to–day basis were at about 489.
And so those are customers who were moving – if you can see direct access.
And then total industrial is 931 for the quarter.
So some movement but not a big deal overall.
Okay.
And then I guess so far year-to-date hydro has been fairly strong.
I’m wondering if that close conditions have continued thus far into the third quarter or if there’s kind of a change? Well it’s starting to rain again and we don’t know if this is a trend.
We tend to look at the weather patterns.
And again this looks like a La Niña year coming up which tends to suggest it’ll be wetter in the northwest.
But you know those are just current projections and we’re not ready to take them to the bank yet.
Okay.
All right.
I appreciate the colors.
Thank you.
Thanks.
(Operator instruction).
It looks like we have no further questions.
We appreciate your interest in Portland General Electric and look forward to seeing some of you next week at EEI.
And invite you to join us when we report on fourth quarter 2011 results in February 2012.
Thanks again.
That does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Portland General Electric Company's fourth quarter and full year 2011 earnings results conference call.
Today is Friday February 24 2011.
This call is being recorded and as such all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
(Operator Instructions) For opening remarks I would like to turn the conference call over to Portland General Electric's Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Bill Valach.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Ann and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased that you're able to join us today.
Before we begin our discussion this morning I'd like to make our customary statements regarding Portland General Electric's written and oral disclosures and commentary.
There will be statements in this call that are not based on historical facts and as such constitute forward-looking statements under current law.
These statements are subject to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made today.
For a description of some of the factors that may occur that could cause such differences the company requests that you read our most recent form 10-K and Form 10-Qs and the form 10-K for 2011 is available on our website at portlandgeneral.com.
The company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
And this safe harbor statement should be incorporated as part of any transcript of this call.
Portland General Electric's fourth quarter and year-end earnings were released before the market opened today and the release is available at our website portlandgeneral.com.
Leading our discussion today are Jim Piro President and CEO; and Maria Pope Senior Vice President of Finance CFO and Treasurer.
Jim will begin today's presentation by providing the general overview of the year's results and our strategic capital projects.
Then Maria will provide more detail around the quarterly and annual results and key regulatory proceedings.
Following those prepared remarks we will open the lines up for your questions.
And with that it's a pleasure to turn the call over to Jim.
Thank you Bill.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Welcome to Portland General Electric's 2011 fourth quarter and year-end earnings call.
I'm very proud of our accomplishments in 2011.
We effectively managed our power supply operations taking advantage of positive regional hydro conditions successfully upgraded our Boardman and Coyote Springs thermal plants received final regulatory approval of our Boardman 2020 plan saw the repeal of Senate Bill 408 and with the constructive outcome of our 2011 general rate case we delivered a competitive return to our shareholders.
Operating performance was also strong during 2011 with our Transmission and Distribution system performing well good generation plant availability and high levels of customer satisfaction.
This reflects our ongoing focus on operational excellence and strong customer service.
On today's call I'll summarize our financial performance initiate 2012 earnings guidance and update you on Oregon's economy.
Then I'll discuss the progress we're making on our strategic initiatives.
Following my remarks Maria will discuss fourth quarter and annual results several regulatory items financing and on liquidity and end with our outlook for 2012.
So let's begin.
PGE's net income for fourth quarter 2011 was $29 million or $0.38 per diluted share compared with $25 million or $0.34 per diluted share for the fourth quarter 2010.
Net income for 2011 was $147 million or $1.95 per diluted share compared with $125 million or $1.66 per diluted share for 2010.
For 2012 PGE is initiating full-year earnings guidance of $1.85 to $2 per diluted share.
2012 guidance assumes hydro wind and plan operations consistent with the estimate in the Annual Power Cost Update tariff as well as a relatively flat operating cost.
Also included in guidance is load growth between 1% and 1.5% over weather-adjusted 2011 loads excluding the loads of two large paper manufacturers.
Now let's move on to the economic outlook in our operating area.
We continue to experience customer growth and we're pleased to see a decline in Oregon's unemployment rate which fell nearly 2% from 2010 to 8.9% at the end of 2011.
Job growth in Oregon was faster than the national average in 2011; 1.6% for total non-fund jobs compared with 1.4% nationally; and 2.3% for the private sector compared with 1.9% nationally as Oregon continues to be an attractive location for technology manufacturing and other industries.
With continued in-migration and increased employment activity total retail energy deliveries on a weather-adjusted basis increased approximately 1.4% in 2011 compared with 2010.
Excluding the loads of two large paper companies weather-adjusted retail energy deliveries for 2011 were approximately 0.5% above 2010 levels.
Both of these percentages include the effects of energy efficiency measures which reduced load growth by approximately 0.5% between 2010 and 2011.
IHS Global Insight expects an improvement in the U.S.
economy in 2012.
And in Oregon we expect to follow that trend.
We are monitoring all industrial sectors in our operating area to understand the economic factors impacting their businesses.
Now I'll give you an update on our strategic initiatives starting with operational excellence.
We continue to deliver excellent operating performance company-wide.
Our overall customer satisfaction ratings remain strong in 2011.
We ranked in the top decile for general business customers third in the nation among large key customers and in the top quartile for residential customers.
In addition our system operated extremely well.
Our distribution reliability metrics remained strong and generation plant availability was high.
We also made good progress in meeting Oregon's renewable energy standard.
In 2011 qualifying renewables supplied approximately 10% of our load requirements double the 5% requirement for the year.
Moving forward we will continue making improvements focused on streamlining our operations by leveraging technology and refining work processes.
Our goal is to reduce the cost of service we provide to our customers while maintaining high levels of customer satisfaction.
Now let me update you on our progress in executing our IRP action plan.
Our 2009 IRP action plan was acknowledged in November 2010 and we filed an informational update in November 2011.
This update outlined changes in the external environment and updated our load forecast our natural gas forecast and the cost of new resources.
It also provided a progress report on the implementation of our action plans including the Boardman emission control upgrades Cascade Crossing Transmission Project and the RFPs for new generation projects.
The updated plan supports the company's need for additional energy capacity and renewable resources as outlined in the 2009 IRP action plan.
Last month we filed a draft combined energy and capacity RFP with the OPUC the combined RFP allows self-build benchmark proposals and offers bidders the option to build on PGE's benchmark sites with two conditions.
First the plant would be built to PGE specification; and second given permitting and land issues the plant would be owned and operated by PGE.
We expect the capacity in energy RFP process to be completed in late 2012 or early 2013.
We are still in the process of completing a draft of the renewable RFP which we plan to file later this year.
Now let me provide you an update on Boardman.
Last year we successfully installed two emission control systems at our Boardman plant.
The low-NOX burners reduced nitrogen oxide emissions by 50% and the mercury controls meet Oregon's stringent standard for mercury emissions.
In December the EPA issued its MACT rule and based on our full-scale testing results the plant should be in compliance with the rules once all the controls are installed.
We are moving forward with the installation of the drive turbine injection system to go into service in 2014 to control sulfur dioxide.
In regard to our Cascade Crossing Transmission Project PGE and Bonneville Power Administration have established a framework for definitive agreements that would allow the project to move forward.
We are on track to file a preliminary application for site certification with the Oregon Department of Energy within the quarter.
System planning and environmental studies along with preliminary design engineering are all moving forward.
We expect to receive permits in 2014 and the in-service date for this project is expected to be late 2016 or early 2017.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Maria Pope our Chief Financial Officer to discuss our financial and operating results in greater detail.
Thank you Jim.
Today I'll cover results for both the quarter and the year provide an update on key regulatory items discuss liquidity and financing and conclude with our outlook for 2012.
As Jim noted net income for 2012 was $147 million or $1.95 per diluted share compared with $125 million or $1.66 per diluted share for 2010.
Operating results for the full year were positively impacted by increased sales due to cooler weather and strong power supply operations driven by favorable hydro conditions.
Higher loads contributed $0.7 per share and strong power supply operations added approximately $0.13 per share net of the power cost adjustment mechanism or PCAM refund.
These gains were partially offset by several items outside of the PCAM which totaled $12 million on a pre-tax basis reducing earnings per share by $0.10.
These items which were approximately $3 million each included an expense related to the order on our 2012 Annual Power Cost Update Tariff lower than expected investment returns on our non-qualified benefit plan trust assets increased employee compensation and benefit expense and several other items.
Now I'd like to provide further detail on energy deliveries and retail revenues.
First for the fourth quarter and then for the year.
For the fourth quarter 2011 total retail energy deliveries were unchanged from the fourth quarter of 2010 both on an actual and weather adjusted basis.
Excluding cooler temperatures energy deliveries to our residential customers increased 0.7% commercial deliveries were unchanged and industrial deliveries excluding paper manufacturers decreased 1%.
Fourth quarter 2011 retail revenue increased 7%.
This was primarily due to a $24 million increase in average retail prices and a $10 million increase related to several regulatory items including the reversal of a collection in the fourth quarter of 2010 under SB 408.
Oregon has now repealed utility tax laws.
For full year retail energy deliveries increased 3% over 2010 on a weather adjusted basis load growth was 0.5% excluding two large paper manufacturers.
Energy deliveries to our residential customers increased 0.2% commercial deliveries increase 0.4% and industrial deliveries increased 0.7%.
For the full year retail revenues increased $58 million or 3% from 2010 due to higher total retail energy deliveries and an increase in average retail prices of 4%.
Now I'll move on to power cost.
For the fourth quarter 2011 purchased power and fuel expense was flat over the fourth quarter 2010.
For the full year purchased power and fuel expense decreased $69 million year-over-year due to a 9% decrease in average variable power cost.
Hydro conditions in the Northwest were above normal in 2011.
Energy received from PGE-owned and contracted hydro resources was approximately 13% above normal for the year.
Energy from these projects also increased 14% in 2011 compared to 2010 providing approximately 25% of the company's retail load requirement for the year.
Energy from the Biglow Canyon Wind Farm increased 46% year-over-year primarily due to the completion of phase III in August 2010.
Biglow Canyon provided 6% of our retail load in 2011 compared with 4% in 2010.
However wind generation was below projected levels which was offset by favorable hydro conditions and low cost purchased power.
With abundant hydro conditions in the Northwest wholesale market prices were low enabling PGE to economically displace a significant amount of our thermal generation with wholesale power purchases.
As a result thermal generation which operated at 93% availability supplies 29% of the retail load in 2011 compared with 44% in 2010.
For 2011 the PCAM deadband range was $15 million below to $30 million above the baseline for net variable power cost.
PGE refunds or collects 90% of power cot outside of this range subject to a regulated ROE earnings threshold.
Total net variable power cost was $34 million below the baseline in 2011 resulting in a potential customer refund of $17 million.
However the regulated earnings threshold of 11% reduces refund to $10 million.
In 2010 actual net variable power costs were $12 million below the baseline and within the lower deadband range.
So no refund or collections was recorded.
Now I'll cover decoupling and expenses for 2011.
As PGE's weather adjusted loads were very close to levels forecast in the 2011 General Rate Case only a small refund was recorded for the year under the decoupling mechanism.
Overall operations and maintenance expense in 2011 increased by 16% over 2010 and was in line with levels forecasted in the 2011 General Rate Case.
The primary areas of increase include production OEM expense for the Boardman and Coyote Spring's upgrades information technology expense as we replace aging systems and distribution expense related to ensuring safety and reliability.
PGE's effective tax rate for 2011 was approximately 28% compared with 30% for 2010.
Now on to financing and liquidity.
We continue to be active in the wholesale marketplace entering into forward contracts for natural gas and power to mitigate commodity price volatility for our customers.
As of December 31 we posted approximately $184 million in collateral wholesale counterparties which consisted of $80 million in cash and $104 million in letters of credit.
As contracts settle and if market prices remain unchanged we anticipate that two-thirds or approximately $120 million of collateral will roll off by the end of 2012 with another $45 million rolling off in 2013.
We now have $670 million in revolving lines of credit an increase since the third quarter as a new $300 million five-year revolver was completed in the fourth quarter.
Total available credit at the end of the year was $516 million.
In December we redeemed $63 million of first mortgage bonds which brought our equity ratio to 49% very close to our target capital structure of 50% debt and 50% equity.
Now I'll discuss our outlook for 2012.
As Jim discussed we are initiating earnings guidance of $1.85 to $2 per share.
This guidance for 2012 is based on a load forecast of 1% to 1.5% over 2011 weather adjusted results excluding the loads of two large paper manufacturers.
Our load forecast assumes growth of approximately 0.5% for residential customers and 1% to 1.5% for commercial customers.
Key assumptions include Oregon employment growth of about a percent modest population growth and some improvement in overall economic conditions.
Industrial customer demand is forecast to grow approximately 3% driven by hi-tech companies and their suppliers' growth and expansion plans.
In particular Intel's new large fab D1X is expected to come online late this year and ramp production over the next several years.
We also expect growth from new data centers and other industrial customers expanding their operations.
Our guidance assumes normal plant operations in addition to hydro and wind conditions consistent with levels forecast in our 2012 Annual Power Cost Update Tariff.
Given our focus on company-wide cost reductions operating and maintenance expense is expected to remain relatively flat which includes an increase in pension expense.
2012 pension expense is expected to be $13 million compared with $5 million for 2011 and included investment prices.
Our 2012 guidance also includes a deferral of approximately $17 million related to four capital projects totaling approximately $100 million.
These projects are not yet in rate base as they were not completed at the time of our last rate case.
The cost associated with these projects can be deferred when our regulated ROE is 10% or below.
In 2012 we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $330 million this forecast does not include projections for the construction of capacity energy or renewable projection -- projects as RFP processes are ongoing.
As such no new debt or equity issuances are currently projected for 2012.
In closing we continue to focus on financial objectives that support our core utility business and growth initiatives including improving ROE and earnings performance and maintaining adequate liquidity and strong balance sheet to support our investment grade credit ratings.
Jim?  Thank you Maria.
Our fourth quarter and full-year 2011 performance reflects our continued focus on operational excellence high customer satisfaction and delivering a competitive return for our shareholders.
As we move forward with the implementation of our IRP action plan we will continue to position the company for future investment opportunities that deliver value to our customers and our shareholders.
Operator we'd now like to open the call for questions.
Thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) We will take our first question from Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
Inc.</strong>  Good morning Jim.
Good morning Maria.
Good morning Neil.
Inc.</strong>  Can you talk us through RFP timelines for gas and wind when are the next major milestones and when can we expect that final outcome?  Okay let me take you through kind of generally the schedule.
We did not have a pre-hearing conference yet to tie down the schedule precisely.
So we don't have exact dates.
But we did file the draft RFP with the OPUC on January 25 of this year.
We are now working on a schedule.
Our plan generally is that the OPUC would render a decision in about -- in June of this year at which point we would start the RFP.
The hope would be we would identify the final shortlist by the end of this year and complete negotiations depending on the outcome of the bids early next year.
So that's the general schedule we have in place.
It's been filed we're getting comments back.
At this point we got to get a schedule tied down.
So things are progressing nicely.
I think we've responded to many of the questions the Commission raised on our capacity RFP.
So hopefully this process will go relatively smoothly.
Inc.</strong>  Got it.
And then timing around the next rate case filing is the plan still to go in 2013 for 2014 implementation with more of an O&amp;M type of case and then tackle more of a capital rate based case later?  We're still looking at the data.
Obviously it's dependent on load growth.
But we do have a pretty significant capital project going in during 2014 that's our dry sorbent injection system and that will go into service probably mid in 2014 and with a fair amount of chemicals that will have to go in and be included.
So we are looking at 2014 as a likely rate case but we're looking at options that we could investigate to work around that to deal with some single issue.
So right now we're tending to focus on 2014.
We would file in early February or late February of 2013 if we go forward with that.
So we continue to look at the numbers a lot of it will depend on load growth and whether we can address some of the single issues we have that are causing some challenges.
Inc.</strong>  Thanks.
And then my last question is on load growth I guess demand forecast a bit lighter than the long-term 1.7% or 1.9% you've talked about historically for next year.
Can you talk about sort of probably what's driving the delta and whether you think the 2012 run rate is the right long-term run rate?  I'll have Maria address this in more detail but as I look at it the big challenge for us is we really haven't seen much in the residential sector.
Starts are down new connects are down that's been where it's been soft even though we are seeing continued in-migration.
We're starting to see some construction in the multi-family space as rental vacancy rates are at historic lows here.
And so we are starting to see a number of developers being interested in development of multi-family.
The foreclosures are starting to work through the market and that will I think will eventually un-cease the residential market.
And so I think we're starting to come out of this slowdown and it will be driven by our commercial customers and their growth that we see out there.
Maria do you want to add anything more to that.
Sure.
For the past quarter we saw a slight downturn in smaller industrial customers but for the year we were just over 1% growth in the industrial area.
And as Jim mentioned the commercial and residential areas for 2011 lagged 0.2% and 0.4% growth respectively much of that was still due to the economy.
For the coming year we're expecting slightly higher residential growth but a particular pickup in the commercial area as we're seeing increased signs of employment in Oregon.
Last year Oregon had some of the highest growth in employment across the country In fact I think we were second and we expect to have probably about a 1% growth forecast for employment which would directly impact this commercial area.
A big swing for 2012 actually is in the industrial area where we're forecasting about 3%.
As we mentioned there is quite a bit of growth going on with one of the largest fabs in the world being built in our service territory by Intel.
And obviously a number of their suppliers are expanding as well.
And we're also seeing a couple of data centers coming to our area and then Boeing and other industrial companies are reinvesting in their operation.
So we feel pretty good about our outlook.
Inc.</strong>  Thanks Maria.
Thanks Neil.
We'll take our next question from Brian Russo with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Inc.</strong>  Hi good morning.
Hi.
Good morning Brian.
Inc.</strong>  Just -- could you elaborate on the $0.10 per share expense item for the 2012 AUT?  Oh I think what you are referring to is our deferral of capital in -- is part of the 2011 rate case.
We had not completed about $100 million of capital projects.
Is that what you're referring to?  You're talking about the AUT the AUT? Inc.</strong>  Yeah.
$12 million pre-tax $0.10 per share item related to additional expense from the OPUC's adjustment on 2012 Annual Power Cost Update.
Yeah that's composed of a number of the items.
Maria will give you the detail but one of those items was there is a $2.6 million adjustment in our AUT filing for 2012.
That came about as a very interesting conversation in our filing around the midterm strategy and how we buy power long term and the Commission went through a very exhaustive investigation of our midterm strategy.
And our midterm strategy is how we purchase power both energy electric energy as well as natural gas on a long-term basis to reduce the volatility of our customers' prices.
We went through a very long discovery process at the end of the day the Commission agreed that our midterm strategy was prudent they did find some documentation lacking and some transactions in 2007.
And they ultimately decided to give us a small adjustment to reflect the need to do better documentation.
That was about a $2.6 million adjustment that's for 2012 but based on the accounting requirements we've booked that in 2011.
There is other numbers included in that and Maria can give you the detail.
Sure.
So the -- a number that you're referring to is $12 million of pre-tax items or about $0.10 a share and these were outside of our power cost adjustment mechanism.
And so they directly fell to the bottom line versus affecting the power cost calculations.
And they include the amount that Jim mentioned for 2.6 million as well as under performance in our non-qualified benefit plan trust assets which is a result of market performance with those investments.
We also had some higher benefit costs and incentives and then a couple of other miscellaneous one-time items that are non-reoccurring.
Inc.</strong>  Okay so this $0.10 is non-recurring?  Yes.
Yes.
Inc.</strong>  And almost considered one-time and you guys would have earned $2.05 without it?  Yes.
There would have been some adjustments the PKM also factors in there but you could essentially say it's one-time piece.
Yeah.
Except for that the piece on the incentives because as we do better we budget that kind of expected levels and because we don't get full recovery of our incentive and customer prices that would have still been there on a recurring basis.
To the extent we do better than our forecast then there is some additional upside on incentives.
Inc.</strong>  Okay.
And then just why do you exclude the two large paper manufacturers from your industrial load growth and what would growth be if you include it them?  Maria why don't you take that one?  Sure.
The two customers that we're talking about have very large loads.
One actually doesn't exist anymore and the other one is also financially troubled and is in Chapter 11.
Their uses is very volatile and also we get very little margin from these businesses as it doesn't -- they buy either direct from the market or are not included in our margin.
So we would have seen probably about 1.4% load growth instead of the 0.5% that we saw without them.
So the real key point here is they really just take at the market we charge them a small margin they buy opportunistically when prices are low and we just act as essentially a marketing agent for them.
And so they're very volatile in their usage depending on what happens in the paper markets so we try to exclude them.
Inc.</strong>  Right I understand.
So the 1% to 1.5% load growth you're forecasting for 2012 if you included the two large paper manufacturers the growth would be even higher than that although the margin impact is minimal.
Yeah it actually -- because one of them no longer is operating it probably would be lower and I think it's very hard to project what's their financial situation.
For the second one.
Yeah for the second.
Inc.</strong>  Okay great.
You mentioned earlier the $100 million of cost deferrals due to the 10% or below ROE.
I guess that implies that you're going to earn below 10% in 12% I'm just curious kind of in the midpoint of your guidance does that assume kind of a 9% regulated equity ROE?  No what we -- first of all let me just clarify the $100 million is capital that we've spent that we can pull the revenue requirement in if we are at 10% and below.
So the guidance that we have you're correct it's about a 9% ROE at the midpoint.
However what we are showing is that we normally have a lag between our regulated and our accounting ROE and we've said that that's somewhere in the neighborhood of 1% or so.
Inc.</strong>  Okay.
And what's the tax rate to use for 2012.
We've historically had a tax rate between about 26% to 30% range.
This past year's tax rate was about 28%.
So I would use some of the historical averages.
Yeah.
I think the challenge you have there Brian you just be aware a lot of that lower tax rate is due to production tax credits.
So on the margin it's closer to 38% or something like that 37%?  Probably 35% and depending on how the wind blows in the production tax credit our tax remember can jump around a little bit.
Inc.</strong>  Okay thank you very much.
Thanks Brian.
We'll go next to James Bellessa with D.A.
Davidson &amp; Company.
Good morning.
Good morning Jim.
How are you doing?  All right.
On the tax issue that was just addressed in the most recent quarter that tax rate was higher than I have expected.
You've been running down in the 24% and 29% and then all of a sudden jumps up to almost 36% what caused that fourth quarter jump?  A lot of that was the production tax credits and if you look at the prior year's tax trends Jim they were actually very similar as well.
You know a lot of the items that we do -- we target at the end of the year but then we do very thorough true-ups as we get to the end of each year.
Okay.
And then you're talking about in your guidance you're assuming normal hydro conditions but you had one of the best hydro conditions ever this last year 2011.
So how much did it add to EPS?  Well again as you know that the hydro as well as our plant operations are going through the PCAM and a PCAM has the earnings test that goes into that and Maria can you give you more detail but we did have a very good hydro year last year which resulted in a refund for customers.
So the mechanism worked as we expected and so we did get some benefit because we got up to the 11% ROE and a refund for customers.
Maria you want to go into particulars.
Sure.
This gets into our sort of our overall outlook for 2012 but as we look at the impact of hydro and then unusually low power prices in the Pacific Northwest due to all the hydro netting out the refund to customers that Jim mentioned it was a benefit of about $0.13.
We're seeing the additional impact we had from cooler than normal weather is offset by our expectations of higher loads.
And then as I mentioned we have these deferrals Jim which is about positive $0.15 for the coming year.
We are projecting flat O&amp;M and compensating for higher pension cost and other healthcare related items with cost savings in each of our operating areas.
So that's essentially how you get there.
Jim just to give you a perspective right now we're slightly below normal for hydro forecast this year in the Northwest but again it's still relatively early and we can still see some significant moisture and snow even into March.
So it's still too early to call how the year is going to play out but right now we're just slightly below normal across the Northwest.
So we talked earlier that the $1.95 could have been adjusted up by that $0.10 per share of one-time items but then we need to subtract out $0.13 for favorable hydro versus normal hydro conditions would that be fair?  Yes.
Then you just mentioned deferrals were $0.15 for 2012 I didn't catch what that was about would you go through that please?  Sure.
And as part of our last rate case we had capital projects totaling approximately $100 million.
And these four projects were not completed at the time of the case so we get them into customer prices or the revenue associated with that capital into customer prices when we're at a 10% ROE or below and we are expecting to be able to include the majority of that or about $0.15 per share due to that capital spending.
So that's an add in 2012?  Yes it is.
Okay.
Then deliveries they were touched upon earlier and you said that one of the paper companies was defunct and the other one was not operating efficiently or very often.
Was there any adds to deliveries industrial deliveries during 2011 from those two plants?  Yes there was in 2011.
If you take them out as we noted our forecast would have been in total an increase of about 0.5%.
And if you include them it was about 1.4%.
But as Jim mentioned they have virtually no impact on margin because they're essentially buying power at market and we're acting as a delivery agent for them and getting just compensated for that.
Now when you talk about the 0.5% excluded 1.4% included those are I believe if I'm catching it correctly normalized for weather is that right the figures that you --?  Yes that's correct yeah.
But when you give out data you don't normalize the data that you give out in actual deliveries is there any rules of thumbs here?  If we had -- our total deliveries would have been up 3% Jim if you had included weather.
And so when we -- our forecasting for 2012 we try and do it on the weather adjusted basis.
So it would adjust down for the cooler temperatures in 2011 but we are forecasting increases in 2012.
Okay.
And those two items offset one another.
And then finally in the most recent quarter power cost -- natural gas prices were low but yet your power cost per megawatt hour went up you call NVPC or something like that I don't have the ability to calculate that exactly.
All I do is take your power cost divided by the megawatt hours of production and I'm coming up with an increase for the quarter that went against my senses that the natural gas prices were going to be down.
So can you explain that?  Your math is correct and we were up just slightly in the fourth quarter and the result -- the reason of that was -- is that the strong hydro started in the fourth quarter of 2010.
So it rained a lot and we had the benefit of strong hydro going into the winter season of 2011.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Jim.
We'll take our next question form Sarah Akers with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong>  Hey good morning.
Good morning Sarah.
LLC</strong>  Just a follow-up on some of the cost containment efforts that are benefiting 2012.
Can you give us an update on kind of some of the specific initiatives and really kind of whether most of the benefits are flowing in 2012 or should we expect that 2013 will have a benefit there as well.
And then also can you just remind us if there are any cost trackers or accounting mechanisms you have in place that you can kind of -- that will help out on the operating expense side?  So I'll take the first and then Maria can talk about the second in terms of trackers.
In terms of the initiatives we've got going on in the company we started in the financial area and what we've been doing is we start with benchmarking and best practices to identify where the opportunities are and then we put in place very specific improvement plans that will reduce the cost of operations but still deliver high customer satisfaction to our customers.
And so we started in the financial area we've just completed a new financial system which has significantly improved the efficiency of the work that we do in the finance area and that has produced some cost savings in that area.
We're now moving into the T&amp;D area the transmission and distribution area.
We're looking at new technology.
We're implementing what is called a maximal work management system mobile and scheduling systems and really trying to change the way we do work in the T&amp;D area to get better results at lower cost.
And that's going to happen probably this year and next.
We've also gone through the streamlining of our IT organization again based on benchmarking and best practices.
And in the human resources area again we're moving from a lot of manual processes to using technologies that automate many of those processes that system won't be complete until later this year which would produce savings in 2013.
So a number of projects underway and more to come as we go through the next few years at really sprucing up our technology system to take advantage of those systems and reduce our manual works activity and produce lower cost to do the things we do.
So I see a continuing trend in this area.
We obviously will still see increases in cost per inflation and other benefits but we're trying to mitigate that through better performance and lower cost through technology.
Maria do you want to talk a little bit about the tracking?  Sure.
We had requested some trackers for pension in particular in our last rate case but we don't have any.
LLC</strong>  Okay thank you.
And then just lastly has a Chairperson been named to the OPUC?  No not at this point.
I would mention that Susan Ackerman did get reappointed just recently for another four-year term and Steve Bloom has been appointed also.
So we now have a full Commission but the Chairman at this point has not been appointed.
LLC</strong>  Great.
Thanks guys.
Thanks.
Thanks Sarah.
We'll go next to Andrew Weisel with Macquarie Capital.
Inc.</strong>  Hi good morning.
Just one more question on the RFP I know there's been some comments back and forth and a handful of IPPs seem to think that it's still a little bit of home court advantage.
I know you have a week or two to file your comments back but from your preliminary understanding are these complaints something that may have merit and could further slow down the process or is it more just a matter of kind of paperwork and filing more data requests?  My feeling is I think we've responded to many of the questions that they've raised in the prior capacity RFP.
To the extent that we can provide lower cost projects that provide lower cost to our customers that's really what we want to accomplish in this.
And we're not trying to produce high cost projects we're trying to get low cost.
And we're trying to create a process that allows people to bid and compete against our projects to the extent they think they can build something cheaper on our sites we've now moved in that direction.
I think the remaining issue is really around keeping the RFP as competitive as we can so that anyone bidding on our site does not get information on the cost of our site so they can't use that against us in the bidding process.
So my sense is it's just paperwork at this point we need to move forward with these RFPs to address the shortfall in capacity and energy.
And I think we've designed a process that allows for that and our projects are going to be competitive we're going to try to keep the cost as low as possible because that benefits our customers.
Inc.</strong>  Got it very good.
Okay then last question you had some comments in the press release about an increasing provision for uncollectable accounts.
Can you give a bit more detail on that as far as the magnitude and the outlook? Is that something that's going to kind of be a concern going forward as well?  Maria you want to take that one?  Sure.
We have about 0.5% historically and about in our customer prices.
We did have one customer go bankrupt and there was a large exposure there.
We consider that to be one of our one-time items then go back to our norm.
Inc.</strong>  Great thanks a lot.
Thanks Andrew.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
Inc.</strong>  Hi good morning.
Good morning Mark.
Inc.</strong>  Just one more quick question here.
On the flat cost in 2012 versus this year I know you have a union contract that you are in the middle of negotiating just wondering if that's already finished and if that's incorporated in your cost projection?  We have two union contracts one for some of our -- a couple of our generating plants that got completed and is in place and we did agree to an extension on the main contract a three-year extension and that got approved and is in place.
So both of those have been negotiated and are included in our guidance.
Inc.</strong>  Okay thanks for that.
And I guess last real quick question if you do manage to pull in the RFPs for self-build are you still considering some equity over the next maybe two years and would you still be thinking more along the lines of a forward sale versus just a lump?  So just generally I think once we get more visibility on the results of the RFP that will inform us on how we move forward with equity the exact structure we're going to look at once we have more clarity on the projects but clearly a forward is one of those types of vehicles that we would consider using as well as other types of vehicles.
So we're looking at that right now.
And we really got to get to these RFP processes and get a little further on Cascade Crossing with that information we'll have a lot more visibility on our capital needs and then we'll try to manage that capital at the lowest cost lease risk for both our shareholders and our customers.
Inc.</strong>  Great understood thanks.
Thanks.
Thanks Mark.
(Operator Instructions) We will take a follow-up question from Brian Russo with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Inc.</strong>  Yeah hi thank you.
Just in terms of any bonus depreciation that's taken -- that has been taken but not included in the previous rate case just curious if you have taken bonus depreciation and how that might impact the rate base when you file your next case say with a 2014 test year.
Maria you want to take that.
Sure.
So we have taken bonus depreciations in prior years but we're currently not anticipating taking any more bonus depreciation and we'll not take any for 2011.
The reason for that is we have quite a few tax attributes from our wind farms in particular our production tax credits and if we were to take more bonus depreciation we would lose some of the benefit of those production tax credits.
And so we are not going to take this accelerated bonus most recent accelerated bonus depreciation.
So we don't have any mismatch with the last rate case we filed.
Inc.</strong>  Okay good.
So the roughly $3.2 billion of rate base currently is kind of a good clean number to build off of?  Yes it is.
Inc.</strong>  Okay.
And then just curious the recent slump in natural gas and power prices is there an opportunity for you guys to optimize your generation fleet and possibly have costs that enable you to earn margin in the PCAM and if so is that included in your guidance range?  Well in terms of the natural gas we forecast and buy forward natural gas to fuel our power plants to meet our retail load.
To the extent prices move we are always out there trying to optimize our generation plants.
Some of that is forecasted in the AUT filing when we run the models to show when those plants are in the money.
So it's already somewhat taken advantage of in the model but there is always changes in the market as we go through the year especially related to the hydro conditions wind conditions and other things.
So I would tell you we're always out there optimizing our plants.
But that's really opportunistic and it really depends on market conditions but we really don't really include that kind of opportunity in our forecast.
So that's kind of how we look at it.
Inc.</strong>  Okay understood.
Thank you.
Thanks Brian.
And we'll take a follow-up from James Bellessa with D.A.
Davidson &amp; Company.
Following up on that prior question there was no bonus depreciation in 2011?  No we did not take any for -- we haven't filed our tax return for 2011 but we do not expect to take any bonus depreciation.
And then --  We have taken it for prior years Jim.
Okay.
And then on Cascade Crossing Meritor talks about an arrangement with BPA that you're discussing was PacifiCorp also discussing ownership in this transmission project?  Yes we still have a Memorandum of Understanding with PacifiCorp.
They do have an interest in a share of the line.
That discussion was put on hold during last year because PacifiCorp was working on their Gateway West project and they also needed to find a path from their Gateway West project to Boardman and that's -- they've now entered into discussions with Idaho Power around some type of relationship on the Hemingway to Boardman line.
So the extent those two projects get completed they now are at Boardman they'd like to move power to Medford which is the southern part of Oregon and to do that they would like to use a portion of Cascade Crossing.
So we now have restarted the conversations with PacifiCorp to see their interest in participating in that line and entering into a relationship as a potential equity owner.
Thank you.
Thanks Jim.
In fact we have no further questions.
Thank you all for participating on the call today.
We appreciate your interest in Portland General Electric and invite you to join us when we report on first quarter 2012 results.
Thank you again.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning everyone.
And welcome to Portland General Electric Company’s First Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today is Thursday May 3 2012.
This call is being recorded and as such all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speaker’s remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) For opening remarks and introduction I would like to turn the conference over to Portland General Electric’s Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Bill Valach.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Rachel and good morning everyone.
And we are very pleased that you’re able to join us today.
Before we begin our discussion this morning I’d like to make our customary statements regarding Portland General Electric’s written and oral disclosures and commentary.
There will be statements in this call that are not based on historical facts and as such constitute forward-looking statements under current law.
These statements are subject to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made today.
For a description of some of the factors that may occur that could cause such differences the company requests that you read our most recent form 10-K and form 10-Q.
The form 10-Q for the first quarter 2012 is now available on our website at portlandgeneral.com.
The company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise and this Safe Harbor statements should be incorporated as part of any transcript of this call.
Portland General Electric’s first quarter earnings were released before the market opened today and the release is available on our website at portlandgeneral.com.
Leading our discussion today are Jim Piro President and CEO; and Maria Pope Senior Vice President of Finance CFO and Treasurer.
Jim will begin today’s discussion by providing a general overview of the quarter results and our strategic capital projects.
Then Maria will provide more detail around the quarterly results.
Following prepared remarks we will then open the lines up for your questions.
And it’s my pleasure now to turn the call over to Jim.
Thank you Bill.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Welcome to Portland General Electric’s first quarter 2012 earnings call.
PGE’s first quarter earnings were $49 million or $0.65 per diluted share compared with $69 million or $0.92 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2011.
These results reflect strong operating and financial performance and I’m pleased to report that we are reaffirming our 2012 earnings guidance of a $1.85 to $2 per diluted share.
On today’s call I will give you an update on Oregon’s economy and the progress we’re making on our strategic initiatives.
Then Maria will discuss PGE’s first quarter results liquidity and our outlook for the remainder of 2012.
Now let’s move on to the economic outlook in our operating area.
Oregon continues to experience in migration and the state unemployment rate has dropped to 4 percentage points from last year to 8.6% with the unemployment rate in our core operating area averaging 7.8%.
Quarter-over-quarter we have added 3 500 customers and our weather adjusted retail energy deliveries are up.
We expect to see growth in our industrial sector as a result of Intel’s large D1X facility and new data centers coming online as scheduled.
Now I’ll give you an update on our strategic initiatives starting with operational excellence.
We continue to deliver excellent operating performance company-wide.
Our system operated extremely well.
Our distribution reliability metrics remained strong and generating plant availability was high.
Overall satisfaction from residential commercial and general business customers remains high and we continue to receive positive feedback that tells us we are meeting our customers’ needs.
We are continuing our benchmarking and best practices work to identify and implement system and technology improvements that result in cost efficiencies throughout the company.
We’ve already achieved significant savings with the installation of smart meters and are pleased with the performance of our new financial and supply chain systems.
We expect to see similar results as we deploy new technology and make process changes in our transmission and distribution areas.
Now I’ll give you an update on our progress executing our integrated resource plan action plan.
Oregon Public Utility Commission is currently reviewing a draft of our combined capacity energy RFP.
This RFP allows self-build benchmark proposals and bids from independent power developers or producers who also have the option to build on PGE’s benchmarks sites so long as the plants are built to our specifications and would be owned and operated by us.
We are finalizing our benchmark proposals for the combined RFP and expect to receive the OPUC’s decision early next month.
We anticipate the final decisions on what resources we select in the latter part of 2012 or early in 2013.
We are continuing negotiations on a benchmark resource for the renewable RFP and expect to file a draft of the renewable RFP with the commission next month with final resourced decisions in late 2012 or early 2013.
The RFP process takes time and we’ll focus on being thorough and doing it right.
I’m confident we will accomplish the IRP action plan goal which is to acquire resources to meet our customer’s needs that achieved the least cost least risk criteria.
We’re also making progress in our cascade crossing transmission project.
In February we filed the application for site certificate with Oregon Department of Energy.
We are currently working with U.S.
Forest Service on the environmental impact statement and with the confederated tribes of warm springs on easement and an environmental analysis.
We are also continuing our discussions with BPA on agreements that will enable the integration of the project into the Northwest power grid and with PacifiCorp on their potential participation in the project as a co-owner.
Although the project remains in the feasibility and permitting stage we still expect to receive the necessary permits in 2014 and are targeting in in-service state of late 2016 or early 2017.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Maria Pope our Chief Financial Officer to discuss our financial and operating results in greater detail.
Thank you.
As Jim noted net income for the first quarter of 2012 was $49 million or $0.65 per diluted share compared with $69 million or $0.92 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2011.
Our financial performance this quarter is in line with our expectations and reflects strong power supply operations slightly above average hydro conditions and a focus on cost management.
It is important to note that our results in the first quarter of last year reflect significant power cost benefit from very strong regional hydro conditions and economic displacement of the company’s thermal generation.
I will now provide further detail on key drivers for the quarter discussing financing and liquidity and conclude by reaffirming our full year earnings guidance.
Total revenues for the first quarter of 2012 were $479 million $5 million less than the first quarter of last year primarily due to a decrease in both price and volume of energy sales.
Actual retail energy deliveries decreased a 1% quarter-over-quarter.
However excluding two large paper manufacturers which have little impact on margin retail energy deliveries were relatively flat.
Adjusting for these paper manufacturers as well as weather energy deliveries were up 1.2% quarter-over-quarter which is in line with our full year load growth expectations of 1% to 1.5%.
We are particularly encouraged by the solid performance in our commercial and especially in our industrial sectors including high technology and manufacturing.
Purchased power and fuel expense was $195 million for the quarter compared with a $194 million a year ago a 5% increase in average variable power costs was offset by a 3% decrease in total system load.
Net variable power costs for the quarter were $5 million below the baseline and within the lower deadband of the power cost adjustment mechanism or PCAM as hydro generation were lower than last year was above the long-term average.
In the first quarter of 2011 power costs were $19 million below the baseline due to an abundance of hydro generation and low wholesale power prices.
At this point we expect net variable power costs for the full year to be within the lower deadband of the PCAM.
Hydro generation from PGE owned and Mid-Columbia Projects was down 27% quarter-over-quarter reflecting generation at 6% above normal compared with 16% above normal a year ago.
In addition generation at our Biglow Canyon Wind Farm increased 13% due to improved wind conditions.
However wind generations for the quarter was slightly below level forecast from 2012 annual power cost update tariffs.
Generation at our thermal plants represented 40% of our total system load for the first quarter compared with only 24% a year ago.
Production distribution and administrative costs totaled $107 million from the first quarter of 2012 an increase of $13 million from the first quarter of last year.
Key drivers of the increased include higher production expense related to increase thermal plant operations higher delivery systems costs and increase pension expense.
Importantly O&amp;M expense for the quarter was in line with our expectations and approximates the quarterly run rate for the full year relative to 2011 we expect O&amp;M for 2012 to increase but after adjusting for an insurance recovery in 2011 and several other expenses that are offsetting revenues and in other areas we expect O&amp;M to be relatively flat year-over-year.
Lastly depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter was $62 million up $6 million from a year ago driven by the shortened operating life of the Boardman Plant and the amortization of tax credits that were completed in 2011.
This increase was partially offset by a $4 million decrease related to the deferral costs associated with four capital projects.
For full-year PGE expect to defer a total of $17 million assuming a regulated ROE of 10% or below.
Capital expenditures this quarter were $69 million and we expect total capital expenditures for the full-year to be approximately $330 million.
We are focused on maintaining our strong balance sheet adequate liquidity and investment grade credit rating.
As of March 31 we had strong liquidity with $533 million in available credit.
We do not expect to issue debt or equity in 2012.
We target a capital structure of 50% debt and 50% equity.
At the end of the first quarter our common equity ratio was 49%.
We are reaffirming our full year earnings guidance of $1.85 to $2 per diluted share based on our expectations of low growth strong power supply operations and effective cost management.
In closing we continue to focus on financial objectives that support our core utility business including improving our earnings performance and maintaining our balance sheet strength to support future growth initiatives.
Thank you Maria.
We’re pleased to see solid low growth in our operating area our performance during the first quarter reflects our continued focus on operational excellence including generating plan availability customer liability and customer satisfaction.
Moving forward we will continue to focus on our core business strategy and positioning the company for future investment opportunities that deliver value to our customers and shareholders.
Operator we would now like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll take our first question from Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning Neil.
Good Morning Jim.
Good morning Maria.
So first question relates to hydro.
I was reading through your 10-K 10-Q this morning.
It looks like hydro forecasts are tracking slightly above normal for the April to September timeframe how does that impact the way you think about the PCAM mechanism in fuel costs? Let me just give you a general deal on Hydro.
And it has improved and continues to improve with the wet March and April we’ve had and you have seen the forecast in our K and there’s even been more in our recent forecasts out there.
The interesting thing is we didn’t see much hydro in the first quarter because it was so cold and so the snowpack is still up in the mountain.
It hasn’t come down.
So the good news is it likely to be delayed.
So we didn’t see much of a hydro effect in the first quarter.
We expect to see more in the second and third quarter really it will depend on the weather conditions on how fast the snow comes down.
The kind of the downside of that is that natural gas prices are low so the value of that hydro will be somewhat diminished from what we saw may be last year.
So really it is going to depend on how the hydro comes off the mountains and how it plays out in our forecast.
Mary will talk a little about the PCAM and how that plays into that.
Sure.
Currently Neil we are at about $5 million below the baseline and within the PCAM ranges.
We expect to most likely end up within the ranges but we do have some upside potential here.
Got it.
And then Maria and Jim there is obviously an increase in the first quarter.
The goal is to keep O&amp;M flat year-over-year does that imply 2Q to 4Q you are expecting O&amp;M to trend down? Maria will explain this and some adjustments to O&amp;M between last year and this year that to get to that flat common and Maria will take you through that.
The plans did run a lot more in the first quarter this year because hydro was down compared to last year and so that’s why you are seeing a slight increase in O&amp;M quarter-over-quarter.
Maria do you want to talk about how the whole year forecast shapes up? Sure.
What we’re looking at was about a $107 million of total O&amp;M up just a slight bit in the ANG area but predominately in the production and distribution area.
If you look back on the sequential quarters we’re tracking pretty much in line with what we saw for each quarter of 2011 with the exception of the first quarter when production and distribution O&amp;M were quite low.
We did have some adjustments that were carryovers from 2010 in that 2011 first quarter.
And then also we have some items that are offset in either revenue or in deprecation.
So in general when we look at O&amp;M we’re expecting to be relatively flat absent those adjustments on a year-on-year basis.
Got it.
And then finally it’s a question asked every quarter how we should be thinking about the timing of the next rate case is the expectation still that you filing 13 or 14 implementation more of an O&amp;M type of case as opposed to a capital case? Yeah.
But that’s our current thinking right now.
We will continue to keep looking at the forecasts.
A lot of it will depend on load growth.
We do have a couple of capital projects that we do see coming online in 2014.
There is actually three.
There is a new readiness center for us backup for our system.
We are also looking at new service center added we call Avery and then we’re also implementing the Boardman dry sorbent injection system in 2014.
So there are three capital projects and we’re still evaluating.
We’ll make a final decision until next year whether we file that case for 2014 but right now that’s our current thinking.
We will continue to evaluate the load forecast and how the capital projects are going and make that determination closer to the end of this year.
Thanks Jim.
Thanks Maria.
Thank you.
Next we’ll move onto Maury May with Power Insights.
Good morning Maury.
Yeah.
Good morning folks.
How are you doing? Thanks.
Good.
I have a question for Maria and its one more question about the PCAM.
You said you’re $5 million below the base line in the first quarter but I think you said in your presentation that you thought you’d be towards the low end of the base line toward the deadband I’m sorry which implies that the PCAM maybe positive to the tune of $13 million to $14 million this year is that what you’re implying here? I think a lot of it depends on what we continue to see in terms of the run-off of all of the snowpack that we’ve had in the mountains as well as gas prices but we do have some room for upside within our PCAM mechanism to our benefit and we’ll see how that plays itself out as we go forward.
We do not spend a lot of time forecasting hydro conditions and Mother Nature but given where we are right now and the fact that it’s pouring outside we have positive expectations.
Okay.
But you did say your expectations were toward the low end of the deadband right? No.
We are within the deadband.
Okay.
Within the deadband but not any deeper than the $5 million? In terms of between $5 million and $15 million we didn’t give an exact forecast Maury.
Okay.
Sorry.
I thought I heard one.
No Sorry.
Okay.
And next we’ll move onto Brian Russo with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Brain.
Good morning.
Just curious on the RFP process for the capacity and the peaking resource when would you expect if you were to self-built when would you start to spend that capital and when would that become commercially available? On the capacity project I think our plans right now assuming we get to the RFP by the end of this year and that is the winning bid.
We expect the capacity resource to come on in early 2015.
The exact timing schedule that will depend on equipment availability and kind how the process plays out.
But that being that period and the energy resource if again we were successful and if that was the winning bid probably mid-2016.
Okay.
So for the capacity if it become online early 2015 if you had a two-year construction cycle we should see spend begin in 2013.
Yeah.
‘13 14 I mean I think that’s the plan as we have ordered the equipment there will be sometime to gear up and get mobilization.
So I think you will see more towards the end of 2013 and towards the beginning of 2014 will be the major spend in terms of the construction cost but that’s probably a reasonable assumption.
Okay.
And would you have to seek recovery of this in the context of general rate case or you do something kind of one off.
No.
I think the plan would be we would need to file a general rate case for cost recovery.
I mean we could talk about a potential track for that but the commission tends to like to do a general rate case when we bring the large resource in.
Got you.
In terms of your tax rate I know you’ve got a fairly low tax rate due to the production tax credits.
I’m just wondering with the increased capacity factor on Biglow does that change your tax rate assumption for the year and then also what is that tax rate assumption? Sure.
Our tax rate is fairly favorable for the first quarter as a result of the production tax credit.
We are assessing though that after a full year we probably would have somewhere in the range that we have had in the last couple of years which is 28% to 30% will be our full year tax rate.
We have seen very positive signs as the wind farm in terms of the opportunities of that facility in the wind versus last year so there could be some upside.
But I think using the last three year history would be a good number to go with.
Brain I think the better way to deal with this is use the statutory rate on the base business so then add in the production tax credit based on an expected wind generation it’ll probably be a -- because the number will fluctuate based on PTCs and income but it’s better to separate the two pieces as I think.
Okay.
You get to about the same results Maria is talking about but things will move around based on income and expense so.
Got you.
And then just on the guidance I would imagine when the guidance was originally issued it was based on normal hydro.
Now we are saying slightly better hydro and you are already $5 million below the dead band.
And we’re likely to see and a continuation of favorable hydro conditions like you said with snow-pack yet till now in the wet May and April? Is there a bias towards the upper end of your current guidance and if you still in the middle of the range are there any negative offsets to what looks to be a favorable PCAM? Brain you have to -- and Maria will explain this after I give you some comments.
You have to understand there is a relationship between the ROE and the deferral that we have for the four capital projects.
And so that’s really based on a 10% ROE.
So there is an interplay between the PKM and the deferred capital or deferred revenues for the capital.
So maybe Mary you can explain that relationship.
Sure.
As we mentioned we have about $17 million of revenue opportunity associated wins about a $100 million of capital that’s been completed since the last rate case.
And we can pull that in when we are at 10% or below on a regulated ROE.
In fact in the first quarter we made an adjustment in this area representing the $4 million.
Two your question on guidance we did we have looked at our first quarter in the results there which is we noted we are feel de-minimus with the additional hydro.
But we have only forecasted slightly above normal four hydro’s we don’t spend a lot of time on forward looking hydro conditions as we don’t know exactly what the runoff will be the benefit given gas prices.
So that’s where we leave it and we tend not to adjust at this point in time on a forecast basis.
Okay.
Understood.
Thank you.
Thanks Brian.
And next we move onto Sarah Akers with Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Hey Sarah.
Good morning.
You mentioned some of the ongoing activities related to Cascade Crossing but can you give us a better sense of kind of what are the important milestones with that project and more or so kind of when do you expect hit those so when we might get more firms since of the CapEx timing on that project? There’s really a couple -- really key milestones the first milestone is getting agreement with Bonneville and integrating the project into the Pacific North West grid and those agreements relate to easement and aligned rating.
And we are working in fact there is a meeting going on in the other room just having that conversation today in terms of how we work on those agreements.
Because it’s been critical because they have to be integrated in the whole grid how the rating of that line is and how we connect to the various substations to get the maximum value for the region.
So that’s a critical agreement and we continue working on that.
I think the conversations have been positive Bournville have been very supportive.
So that’s the key thing we hope to that wrapped by the end of the year.
And we’ll have a good sense of that by the end of the third quarter of whether we reached the finish line.
But everything seems to be positive and moving in the right direction.
We have to get the agreements reached.
So that’s one critical piece.
The second agreement that’s critical and this is really related whether it’s a single circuit line or double circuit line is PacifiCorp participation in the project.
And we are in good conversation with them.
They obviously need to get to the terminus of our project which is Boardman and the way to get there is they are proposing to build the project called Gateway West and then Idaho Power and Bournville in specific proposing available line from Hemingway to Boardman which is the terminus of Gateway West and once they get the Boardman than they would like a piece of our about 600 megawatts of our Cascade crossing to get to the Southern Oregon where they have a load center.
So there is few things that have to connect there but that discussion is really around whether we build the single circuit line or double circuit line.
We love to build double circuit line everything seems to indicate that’s the right strategy PacifiCorp is very interested and everything is going well on those two projects that connect.
So that’s the second important piece.
But that’s really relative to whether we build single or double circuit.
And that would obviously be more cost effective to build the double circuit line just given the challenge of building these lines and optimizing and maximizing the value of the write away.
The third challenging part of this getting the permits and I would tell you we are doing all the surveys and as you know the project was selected by the rapid response team to accelerate and facilitate it better licensing and permitting for these projects.
Everything is going well in those projects.
We are doing the surveys and all the work and we’re now starting to talk about what mitigation might be required for habitat and wildlife.
And so that’s going well.
And again I think the visibility that we’re getting at the Federal Government the other good news is both the Gateway West Project and Boardman Hemingway to Boardman have also been selected by the rapid response team.
So a lot of good coordination and so those are the three key things and obviously the Bonneville agreements are the most improvement in terms of assuring that we have the -- this project integrated in the Northwest grid.
And then do you have to have the VPA agreement in place before the PacifiCorp agreement can happen because that will be the determined of the single or the double? Clearly that agreement is critical because of that that agreement we don’t have a project.
I mean that agreement with Bonneville enables that line to get built in terms of integrating into substations and the line rating and trying to make it all work within the context of the Northwest grid.
So it is like -- if we can’t the project built PacifiCorp doesn’t have any interest.
So we have to get that agreement with Bonneville so that’s almost a precursor.
But we are -- but we really needed to get PacifiCorp on board because we have to get a lot of design work done and we’ll determine whether we build single or double.
So we are in active conversation with the PacifiCorp as we speak in terms of trying to figure out how that agreement would shake out with them.
But clearly the Bonneville agreement is a precursor to build in line.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you Sarah.
And we’ll move on to James Bellessa with D.
A.
Davidson.
Good morning Jim.
Good morning Jim.
Good morning.
Can you hear me? Yeah.
We got you.
So production and distribution expenses in the first quarter were $53 million so annualizing that to $212 million.
But I think I heard that O&amp;M expenses might be slapped with last year’s figure which was $201 million with certain adjustments did I hear correctly and is that -- what are those adjustments? Maria? Yes.
And you did hear correctly.
And those were adjustments the first one relates to an insurance recovery related to activity in 2010 that was a positive adjustment to 2011 of a couple of million dollars.
We also have items that are reflected elsewhere Trojan refund expenses some other items that are offset in depreciation and amortization and other deferral.
And would the adjustment also be that $2.3 million charge in the second quarter ideally seven month with the Sierra Club? That was a one-time item in the second quarter of last year.
I haven’t included that in here.
But certainly was that increased our expense in 2011 versus -- we won’t that have expense in 2012.
Okay.
So this run rate of $212 million is not likely to be reached for the whole year is that fair? I think when we look at $212 million there are in terms of -- their off takes will continue to flow through the production and distribution O&amp;M area but there are offsets in other areas.
So it’s not boiling to the bottom line and affecting EPS.
The amount is falling to the bottom line and affecting EPS Jim is much more representative to what we had last year which as you noted was about $201 million.
And the depreciation and amortization line of expense for the quarter was $62 million is that a fair run rates for the rest of the year? Yeah.
That’s about a fair run rate.
Again some of this does in ‘11 make the quarter-to-quarter comparison more difficult.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
In some of those things in D&amp;A are covered in revenues.
For example the Boardman we accelerated the Boardman depreciation last year midyear.
And so now we have a full year of that.
So some of that is covered in revenues.
So there are offsets to some of the changes in D&amp;A.
And in the cash flow statement there was item of a sale of solar facility.
Did you get out of that business? Why did you get out of that business? Maria you want to take.
We are not out of that business.
It’s part of our utilization of tax credits to do sale leased that transactions on some of our solar facilities.
And so it’s very similar to the structures we have had with other small solar projects.
So essentially Jim we develop the solar project and we sell a new sale leased back vehicle.
And then we basically buy the power back into our system to take advantage of the state tax credits.
We operate it still ultimately on an D&amp;A basis.
And the cost is covered in our regulated rates.
There was also jump in direct access customers like 439 now versus 233 a year ago.
What explains that big jump is that a very similar item? No.
I don’t think it’s terribly worse.
And there were a number of fairly small customers that in November moved to one year opt out.
You’ll see that on a Kilowatt hours basis.
The jump was not very meaningful.
And again remember Jim that we are potentially we are short of utilities when we have customer who decides to get open access.
We still get our T&amp;D charges as part of the cost recovery.
And then we just we don’t purchase power to meet that obligation.
So and there is a calculation of the spent cost to benefits from our existing resource base.
So warehouse is relatively neutral.
Also you should note that none of our larger customers moved.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Jim.
And we’ll move on to Andrew Weisel with Macquarie Capital.
Good morning Andrew.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
I like to dig a little bit deeper on the load growth trends.
If I heard correctly I think you said weather normalized loads were up 1.2%.
My question is does that include the benefit of the leap day and how -- what does that number look like for the industrial cost customers that are not covered by your decoupling mechanism?  Maria you want to cover that? Sure.
It does include the benefit of the leap day.
And we -- it also excludes two fairly volatile and high consuming paper customers that do not affect margin or largely effect margin.
And then on decoupling we had a slight carry over negative hit of 1.3 somewhat from the fourth quarter of last year and $1.3 million.
Okay.
I guess let me ask the same thing differently then.
For your industrial customers I see from the press release that it looks like the actual volumes were down about 4%.
What would that look like excluding weather? For -- we look about flat.
And if you take a look at -- on the industrial customers -- excuse me -- we look about up 1%.
If you and then if we exclude the other more volatile customers its up a little bit more.
Okay.
Great.
Then as far as there were two statements I was a little bit confused about in the press release.
You say for 2012 PGE projects deliveries will be comparable to whether adjusted 2011 levels.
Yet on the guidance section you say you expect 1% to 1.5% higher.
How should I reconcile those two? So I think that was confusing on our part.
And it was on the first page is not reflective of the paper customers that we’ve excluded that do not affect margin.
And so when we look at what’s really moving our bottom line and earnings per share we are maintaining that 1% to 1.5% forecast.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you very much for clarifying.
Thank you.
And we’ll move on to Naaz Khumawala with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Good morning Naaz.
Hi.
This is actually [David Tories] in for Naaz.
Okay.
Hi David.
Hi David.
Hi.
Just one question on pension expense what is embedded in your guidance for the pension spend? Sure.
We had about $13 million of pension expense for the year.
We estimate about 5% discount rate in about 8.25% return rate.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
And next we’ll hear from Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
Hey.
Good morning.
Good morning Mark.
Just one small thing I know you had had some oral arguments in February from the queue on the Court of Appeals around your Trojan refund from 2010? Yeah.
I didn’t see anything in the subsequent events but I’m wondering what kind of a timeline or what might be related to your guidance for that ruling? There is nothing in our guidance that are ruling.
And we really don’t have a timeline when they’ll make a decision.
It’s related to their time to work through the process and come up with that decision.
The likely outcome of that could be one or two things.
One is that they reaffirm the PUCs decision in which case there is nothing to do.
And we’re done with that case unless they try to appeal that to the Supreme Court or they re-mandate it again back to the Commission and ask the Commission to re-work the prices again one more time.
So in either case there would like be no impact on our guidance for this year because we’d have to go back to another process.
So we have two outcomes.
And we’re just waiting for the Court of Appeals to rule.
Okay.
And can you remind me has the Chairman been selected yet for the PUC? No.
Not at this point.
We do have a full commission now but the Chairman has not been selected.
Okay.
Do you really expect any impacts either way from selection or is that just kind of a cosmetic thing? You know I just really look at the leadership at the Commission.
I would not expect either Susan or John Savage would be the likely candidate for that Commission.
Both are experienced.
They know the business pretty well.
And we have a good relationship with both.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
And next you’ll hear from Eric McCarthy with Praesidis Capital.
Hi.
My questions were answered.
Thank you.
Thanks Eric.
We’ll move on to John Alley with Decade Capital.
Good morning guys.
Good morning John.
Just one confirmation you mentioned three capital projects that would come on in ‘14? Yeah.
And I was looking for a little more clarity on timing and cost? We provided the cost of these projects.
We haven’t been specific on the cost.
Two of those that Jim mentioned were buildings which are generally in are normal forecast of capital.
You can see -- in the 10-Q there is a capital estimation of roughly 330 for 2012.
And then just under $300 million for 2013 I know all three of those projects including the two buildings that Jim mentioned are in those numbers as well as the Boardman project.
Got you.
And how much was the Boardman? It’s in those numbers we haven’t broken it out specifically.
Got you.
And I’m just trying to figure out roughly the 2014 versus 2011 rate based difference.
It looks to me about $100 million.
Is that? That’s about it.
Yeah.
We have about $250 million of depreciation.
Okay.
So you would go in with only $100 million difference in rate base so that you will see a little bit of capital on just like in O&amp;M? A little bit of capital the O&amp;M is largely driven by additional chemical cost at the Boardman facility which would be used in mid-2014 after the capital projects are completed.
And as Jim mentioned we are still assessing what we do depending on where we end up with low growth.
Okay.
And then lastly it looks like there was a weather adjustment but it also look like a Heating Degree-days days were flat year-over-year.
What was the adjustment due to or just kind of timing when? It’s really timing.
We had a very interesting weather period in terms of averages versus lack of severely cold days.
And it was just timing and sort of anomalies between the periods.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thanks John.
(Operator Instructions) Then next we’ll take a follow up from Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Was real quick.
Can you help frame the drivers of 2013 versus 2012 given the absence of rate increases how do you get sequential earnings growth next year? Sure.
The first and foremost we are looking at continued load growth in our area.
As we’ve mentioned before Neil we are very fortunate to have one of the largest hi-tech fabs in the world being built in our service territory and as well a subsidiary businesses that support that operation particularly gas companies and others are fairly high users of energy.
As we look at other industrial customers as well as the commercial customers on the industrial front of our 20 to 25 largest customers we are seeing and expect to continue to see about three quarters of those with a pretty nice load growth.
We continue to see migration in our area.
And so that’s where we started it’s continued growth there.
We also are very focused on maintaining effective cost structure on the O&amp;M side.
And then we do have the capital deferral that we will be able to bring in again in 2013.
As I mentioned the total of $17 million additional revenue requirements.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you very much Maria.
Thank you.
And there are no further questions.
I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Piro for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you.
We appreciate you interest in Portland General Electric and invite you to join us when we report on our second quarter 2012 results.
Thanks again for joining us.
And that will conclude today’s call.
We thank you for your participation.
Please standby we are about to begin.
Good morning everyone.
And welcome to Portland General Electric Company’s Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today is Tuesday August 7 2012.
This call is being recorded and as such all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) For opening remarks I would like to turn the conference call over to Portland General Electric’s Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Bill Valach.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Anne and good morning everyone.
I’m pleased that you’re able to join us today.
Before we begin our discussion this morning I’d like to point out that we have prepared a PowerPoint presentation to supplement our discussion today and we’ll be referencing slides throughout the call.
For those of you accessing the call over the phone you can find these slides on our website at portlandgeneral.com.
Referring to slide two I’d like to make our customary statements regarding Portland General Electric’s written and oral disclosures and commentary.
There will be statements in this call that are not based on historical facts and as such constitute forward-looking statements under current law.
These statements are subject to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made today.
For a description of some of the factors that may occur that could cause such differences the company request that you read our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Qs.
The Form 10-Q for the second quarter 2012 is available on our website at portlandgeneral.com.
The company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise and this Safe Harbor statement should be incorporated as part of any transcript of this call.
Portland General Electric’s second quarter earnings were released before the market opened today and the release is available at portlandgeneral.com.
Leading our discussion today are Jim Piro President and CEO; and Maria Pope Senior Vice President of Finance CFO and Treasurer.
Jim will begin today’s presentation by providing a general overview of the quarter’s results and our strategic capital projects.
Then Maria will provide more detail around the quarterly results and following prepared remarks we will then open the lines up for your questions.
It’s my pleasure to turn the call over to Jim.
Thank you Bill.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Welcome to Portland General Electric’s second quarter 2012 earnings call.
As slide four shows PGE’s second quarter net income was $26 million or $0.34 per share.
We are reaffirming our 2012 earnings guidance of $1.85 to $2 per share.
As you can see on slide five today I’ll give you an update on Oregon’s economy and discuss operational excellence as well as the progress we’re making on our strategic initiatives which drive business growth.
Then Maria will provide a financial update detailing PGE’s second quarter results liquidity and our outlook for the remainder of 2012.
Now let’s move on to the economic outlook in our operating area.
Oregon’s June unemployment rate of 8.5% is 1% lower than in June of last year and the unemployment rate in our operating area is averaging 7.3% which is also nearly 1% lower than a year ago.
The Portland metro area gained 21 000 jobs between June 2011 and June 2012 which represents a 1.3% gain.
In the first six months of 2012 our new residential connects increased by 2 900 compared with 850 added during the same period last year.
So far this year our loads are up about 1% over 2011 weather adjusted levels reflecting the growth we are seeing in all sectors.
Now on to operational excellence.
We continue to deliver excellent operating performance company-wide.
Our system operating extremely well our distribution reliability metrics remain strong and generating plant availability was high.
We are also very pleased to be the top ranked investor-owned utility in the nation for residential customer satisfaction and in the top decile for business customer satisfaction in the J.D.
Power and Associates 2012 Electric Utility Satisfaction studies for Residential and Business Customers.
This is a great recognition of the hard work and effort of our employees who dedicate themselves to meeting our customer’s needs.
We are continuing our benchmarking and best practices work to identify and implement process changes and technology improvements that result in efficiencies throughout the company.
Right now we are focusing on our information technology in transmission and distribution areas.
Now I will give you an update on our progress executing our integrated resource plan action plan.
Please refer to slide six.
The Oregon Public Utility Commission approved our capacity and energy RFP and it was issued for competitive bidding on June 8th.
Independent power developers and producers can bid into the RFP with purchase power agreements build own transfers or asset sales and they have the option to build on PGE’s benchmark site as long as the plants are built to our specifications and would be owned and operated by us.
We submitted PGE’s benchmark bids last week and all other bids are due tomorrow.
We are targeted an initial short list selection in November with a final decision in early 2013.
We also moved forward with our Renewable RFP.
As you can see on slide seven we filed a draft RFP with the OPUC for review on July 25th.
The OPUC has scheduled a hearing in late September and upon OPUC approval we will issue the RFP.
PGE expects to submit its benchmark bid in the fourth quarter and we hope to make a final resource decisions in late 2012 or early 2013.
We are also making progress on our Cascade Crossing Transmission Project which you can see on slide eight.
We are currently developing and providing information for the Draft Federal Environmental Impact Statement and the environmental analysis for the confederated tribes of the warm springs.
We are in the midst of negotiations with BPA on agreements that will enable the integration of the project into the Northwest power grid with specifically regarding their potential participation in the project as a co-owner and with confederated tribes of the warm springs on project easements.
Although the project remains in the feasibility and permitting stage we still expect to receive the necessary permits in 2014 and are targeting an in-service date of late 2016 or early 2017 subject to receiving all necessary approvals.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Maria Pope our Chief Financial Officer to discuss our financial and operating results in greater detail.
Thank you Jim.
As you can see on slide nine net income for the second quarter of 2012 was $26 million or $0.34 per share compared with $22 million or $0.29 per share for the second quarter of 2011.
For the first six months net income was $75 million or $0.99 per share versus last year when we earned $91 million or $1.21 per share.
Quarter-over-quarter favorable power supply operations and a lack of customer refunds drove earnings growth.
This more than offset lower retail energy deliveries resulting from this year’s -- this spring’s mild weather.
Year-to-date earnings decreased due to lower retail energy deliveries and less of a benefit from favorable power supply operations coupled with higher pension expense and increased delivery system costs in the first quarter.
Total retail revenues for the second quarter were $394 million a $4 million increase from the second quarter of last year.
While we saw a decrease in both the average retail price and the volume as energy sold we did not record a customer refund under the Power Cost Adjustment Mechanism or PCAM this quarter compared with the $8 million refund we recorded in the second quarter of 2011.
Retail energy deliveries decreased quarter-over-quarter primarily due to the mild spring weather compared with much colder temperatures last year.
When energy deliveries are adjusted for weather and for certain industrial customers that minimally impact margins loads are up approximately 0.5% over the second quarter last year and are up about 1% year-to-date.
For full year we expect approximately 1% load growth over 2011 weather adjusted levels which is at the low end of our range.
As you can see on slide 11 purchase power and fuel expense was $156 million for the quarter compared with $169 million a year ago driven by an 8% decrease in average variable power costs and low natural gas prices.
Net variable power costs were $5 million below the PCAM base line in the second quarter for a total of $10 million below the base line for the first six months of 2012.
This is still within the lower deadband of the PCAM and the 2012 earnings are not expected to exceed the regulated earnings test and so we have not recorded a refund to customers this year.
In comparison power costs were $29 million below the baseline for the first six months of 2011 and we recorded an estimated refund to customers of $12 million.
Generations from PGE-owned and Mid-Columbia hydro projects has been favorable this quarter exceeding our annual power cost update tariff or AUT forecasted by 16%.
This is slightly lower than the favorable hydro experienced during last year’s second quarter which exceeded our forecast by 19%.
Overall favorable hydro conditions and low natural gas prices have contributed to lower purchased power costs.
Generations at our Biglow Wind Canyon decreased 12% quarter-over-quarter due to unfavorable wind conditions and was 10% below the AUT forecast.
Generation at our thermal plants represented 5% of our total retail load requirement for the second quarter compared with 10% a year ago as our thermal plants were economically displaced by lower costs purchased power.
Now moving on to slide 12 production distribution and administrative costs totaled $107 million for the second quarter up $1 million from the second quarter of last year.
Administrative and general expense increased primarily due to higher pension costs those offset by lower production and distribution expense as maintenance work at our Boardman and Colstrip plants returned to normal levels after significant maintenance outages last year.
Total O&amp;M expense for the quarter is in line with our expectations and approximates the quarterly run rate for the full year.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter was $63 million up $8 million from a year ago due to a tax credit amortization that finished at the end of 2011 and increased depreciation at our Boardman coal plant.
Both of these increases were offset in retail revenues.
Depreciation and amortization also includes a $4 million decrease related to the deferral of costs associated with capital projects for a total decrease of $8 million for the first six months of 2012.
For the full year we expect to defer $17 million.
Overall depreciation and amortization of $60 million to $65 million is an approximate quarterly run rate for the year.
Capital expenditures this quarter were $68 million and totaled $137 million for the first six months of 2012.
We expect capital expenditures for the full year to be $323 million.
Turning to slide 13 we are focused on maintaining a strong balance sheet adequate liquidity and investment grade credit ratings.
In June Moody’s upgraded our outlook on the company from stable to positive.
As of June 30th we had $629 million in available revolver capacity and excess cash.
We target a capital structure of 50% debt and 50% equity.
And at the end of the quarter we had 49% equity.
We do not expect to issue debt or equity in 2012.
Depending on the outcome of RFP’s we will assess our need for additional debt or equity.
Given our cash from operations and additional debt capacity assuming the same capital structure we expect to finance approximately $500 million of capital expenditures annually before accessing the equity markets.
We are on track to be within our full year earnings guidance range of $1.85 to $2 per share as shown on slide 14.
While we have reduced our load forecast we have already benefited from favorable power supply conditions.
In closing we continued to focus on financial objective that supports our core utility business including improving our earnings performance and maintaining a strong balance sheet that supports future growth initiatives.
Jim? Thank you Maria.
Our performance during the second quarter reflects our continued focus on operational excellence.
Moving forward we will continue to focus on our core business strategy and we are positioning the company for future investment opportunities that deliver value to our customers and our shareholders.
Operator we’d now like to open the call for questions.
Thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) We will take our first question from Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning Jim and Maria.
Good morning Neil.
How are you thinking about the timing of your next general rate case? Is it fair to assume 2013 filing for 2014 implementation? We are in the processing of planning for our 2014 rate case.
We’re right now in the budget phase of our business and we’re putting budgets together.
We’ll look through all the cost items and look at our forecast around loads and other items.
And we’re moving forward with that plan but until we make a final decision it’s not filed.
So we will – if we do file it will be filed in February of next year.
Got it Jim.
And the weather normal demand level of 50 basis points in the second quarter how does that change the way you think about the long-term demand growth of 1.7% that you embed in your IRP? That’s a long-term forecast.
Maria you can provide a little bit more detail on that? As we look at our weather adjusted load growth we’re nicely up on a residential basis about 0.7% commercial up about 1% and then industrial up about 1.2%.
Now that’s year-to-date and on a weather-adjusted basis excluding some customers that don’t impact margin and are little bit more volatile.
When we look out long-term we are – we continue to look at loads growth between 1% to 2%.
And as we look at our industrial customers in particular this past year 70% of our industrial customers loads are up and we’re very pleased to see not only growth in the high-tech sector led by Intel which is building on the largest fabs in the world in our service territory as well as new datacenters that are currently being constructed and others that are in the works.
Got it.
And the last question for me is on the capacity and energy RFP.
Will we know the names of the competitive bids when they are filed tomorrow? No.
Most of that’s all held confidentially not only to protect the bidders but to keep the process very clean in terms of what’s going on.
We may be able to release some general statistics but we haven’t made that decision yet.
Meaning the number of bidders that participated? That’s correct.
Just some very general numbers and we may provide that to the OPUC at some future briefing.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Neil.
We’ll take our next question from Brian Russo with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Good morning Brian.
Hi.
Good morning.
Just on Cascade Crossing it seems like you’re still committing to the 2016 ‘17 start date.
I’m just curious how confident are you in that since we’ve seen a variety of delays in other Northwest transmission projects? Well Brian these are complex projects and they are 50-year assets.
So they do take time to get constructed and build and get through the process.
You’ve got to keep a focus on trying to get them to the finish line.
But as we’ve seen across the country sometimes they take a little bit longer just because of the complexity of the environmental assessment process that we have to go through.
We’re still driving towards that date and our folks are working hard.
But we’ll have to see how it plays out.
Until we see the draft DEIS and see what kind of issues come up we won’t know absolutely for certain.
But that’s our goal right now to start at that timeframe and get it completed by ‘16 ’17.
But the processes we have to go through the processes.
Again these are long-term investments that provide long-term reliability to the grid and if they happen to split the year it’s not the end of the world in terms of what need to happen.
But clearly we’re committed to moving forward with the project.
Okay.
And remind us how this capital deferral works? I think you are assuming $17 million in your 2012 guidance.
Just want to understand the mechanics a little bit better on that? Good question.
Maria you want to cover that for Brian.
Sure.
Good morning Brian.
We had as you’ll remember a couple of projects that were part of our last rate case that had not been completed at the time.
And as such we put those under service deferral mechanism.
There was total of just over $90 million in capital spent.
Those projects have now been completed and to the extend we have an ROE under 10% on a regulated basis.
The revenue requirements associated with those projects comes into play and that totals about $17 million on an annual basis $8 million of which we have already booked it to-date.
Okay.
Got it.
So you are currently earning under a 10% and are utilizing this capital deferral of $17 million to support 10% in ‘12.
And I guess that could be in the case in ‘13 until the next rate case? Yeah.
Absolutely.
And we reflect it as a decrease in depreciation until our next rate case.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Yeah.
Brian one other clarity on that and just so you understand is that the – this works in concert with the PCAM too in terms of the deferral can go down if you will if we go beyond the deadband in the PCAM because of the ROE test.
Okay.
We’ll take our next question from Andrew Weisel with Macquarie Capital.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
I want to elaborate if you can.
I guess you can’t say too much about the RFP and competing bids.
So I was hoping you could talk a little specifically about Troutdale which seems to come up in the media a bit as being one of the maybe leading contenders if you will.
Can you talk a little bit about your sort of pros and cons when you think about things like tax abatement and transmission needs? We don’t know a lot about that project specifically.
If they bid in the process they will be evaluated with all other bidders under the scoring system we have.
I don’t know the particulars of that side of whether they have -- I know they have some tax abatements for that site.
We have the same for the Cardiff site as well as the Port Westward site.
But in terms of transmission and things that’s really under their responsibility.
So I really can’t comment on that.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Then if I heard you correct about the equity needs in the future sounds like nothing this year and depending on the RFPs maybe something in the future.
If I heard correctly you expect to finance $500 million of CapEx without accessing capital markets is that right? And if so does that mean if you’re successful in your self-bidding plans maybe somewhere around the middle of 2014 would be the right ballpark? So just to clarify we would -- at $500 million that does include accessing debt markets.
And keeping roughly our capital structure about the same as it is today and targeted at that 50/50 level.
After that we can either adjust our capital structure.
And it has over time gone up or down by about three or four percentage points versus our target or access the equity markets for additional equity capital.
The timing of which is the dependent upon the timing of the capital projects and the number that we would be completing.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
And lastly then on the dividend you mentioned in the press release historically the increases have been about 2% to 4% per year.
How should we think about future dividend increases and how related those might be to CapEx needs about the new generation projects? Well we have a policy we’ve currently laid out there that we want to pay somewhere -- pay out essentially between 50% and 70% of earnings.
And so as we grow earnings we would like to continue to grow the dividend to reward our shareholders for continuing to invest in the business.
And we do have capital needs in the future so we may be a little more conservative at the lower end of that.
But each year we reevaluate where we are with our earnings and with our dividend and make a decision on an annual basis whether to increase it.
We’ve had a history of continuing to increase the dividend over time.
Thank you very much.
I’ll pass it along.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll take our next question from Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
Good morning.
Morning Mark.
Sorry to continue on the RFP but could you just remind me I know you said Q1 2013 for the kind of final submission to the OPUC.
Is that a hoard deadline? Yeah.
It really depends on the number of bids and the complexity of evaluating those bids.
We hope to get a shortlist determination in November of this year.
Then that goes -- then we start -- and that goes into the commission for review to ensure that the independent evaluator agrees on the shortlist.
And then depending on the complexity of each of the bids we have to go in into the negotiations to get final contracts.
If our projects are at the top of the list in terms of the shortlist then we can move forward on executing those projects.
If they’re not at the top of the shortlist and if they’re still on the shortlist then we have to start the negotiation with the other parties to see if we can get to final contracts on those specific transactions.
So -- and each bid is different and we’ve got like five different things we’re looking for.
We’re looking for an energy project.
We’re looking for a flexible capacity project.
We’re looking for some seasonal capacity and then a winter-only capacity project.
And those can be multiple bids or single bids.
So it really depends on the complexity of the projects and the bids and kind of which -- how the list shake out.
So we hope to have it all wrapped up by the first quarter of next year again depending on the complexity of the negotiations and the contracts that might take a little longer.
But we’ll have a lot more visibility in November when the shortlist is decided upon.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then just one more quick question on the $5 million increase in revenues in the release that you mentioned is de-coupling and other items how much of that was to de-coupling adjustment.
And can you just maybe provide any detail on that other bucket? Sure Maria do you want to do that? Sure.
The de-coupling didn’t have a lot of impact.
And what happens with regards to other items is we have adjustments that come in during mid year as well as end of year that are as a result of regulatory adjustments we make.
In particular we’ve had some around our historic SB 408 adjustments and other items.
Okay.
That makes sense.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Sarah Akers with Wells Fargo.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Sarah.
The energy portion of the combined RFP if the self-build option prevails.
Would you expect to begin construction kind of as soon as possible and target that earlier part of that 2015 to 2017 timeline or is it possible that construction begins in a couple of years with the 2017 targeted and service dates? Well I think right now -- it’s going to be about a 3.5 year construction process.
And so depending on when we get started -- we’d like to get started construction next year and mobilizing things but it will take roughly 3.5 years to get that project built.
At least our proposal will take that long.
So you can add that up to the dates and get to kind of the in-service dates.
So it’s going to take sometime.
The capacity can be build much quicker much shorter timeframe and we would hope to have that on line by 2015.
Got it.
And then in terms of the rate strategy for recovery of the RFP projects if self-build does prevail any chance you could do a single item rate case in organ to pick these up or will they require full general rate cases? Maria do you want to take that? Sure.
We can file a single item rate case.
I don’t think that it would probably be a good idea for us to do so.
In that interveners and others could ask us any -- to address any issues that we wouldn’t have put forth in a rate case if we chose to do a single item or limited item.
So we would probably do a general rate case at that point in time.
Do you remember that for renewables in particular we have a tracking mechanism.
And we don’t need to have a rate case to pull those projects into customer prices.
And one thing we have done Sarah in the past is we filed a general rate case with a new resource in it.
But because the resource doesn’t start in service on the date of the prices say it starts in the first quarter we have been able to at least get approval on the cost recovery.
And then when the plant goes into service then we actually implement the price increase for that specific asset.
So there are some ways to at least adjust it to the extent it doesn’t come in on January 1 of the calendar year.
And that’s when the prices might change.
So might have a two-step increase where prices would increase on January 1.
And then the actual asset recovery would start at the time when the plant gets declared in service.
Okay.
So as long as it would be in that forward test year you could pick it up when it comes online? Yeah.
Typically that works as long as it’s within the first half of the year.
I think when it gets towards the end of the half of the year then it gets -- a little more conversation has to happen.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thanks Sarah.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll take our next question from Mike Bates with D.A.
Davidson.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Mike.
Most of my questions have been asked and answered already but I did want to circle back on Cascade Crossing.
Have you disclosed what proportion of that project you would like to own? Yeah.
I think we have.
I think in terms of megawatts we are looking at about 2 600 megawatts of the project.
That’s the size that we think is doable for the configuration we are looking at.
And we are working with Bonneville to get agreement on that number.
And how to integrate that project into the grid at the lowest cost lease risk way of dong that.
PacifiCorp has expressed an interest in about 1 600 megawatts of that 2 600 both by directional and that’s their interest.
Obviously that’s critical -- its critical that Boardman to Hemingway get built for PacifiCorp to have that interest.
And so we continue to have conversations with PacifiCorp on their interest as they look at that project as well as Boardman to Hemingway.
Their desire is to get to the southern part of Oregon where they have load.
And this would allow them to get there at a very low cost way compared to other options they have looked at.
All right.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks Mike.
And with no further questions in the phone queue I would like to turn the call back to Jim Piro with any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you.
We appreciate your interest in Portland General Electric and invite you to join us when we report our third quarter 2012 results.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Please standby we are about to begin.
Good morning everyone.
And welcome to Portland General Electric Company’s Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today is Thursday November 08 2012.
This call is being recorded and as such all lines have been placed on-mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) For opening remarks I would like to turn the conference call over to Portland General Electric’s Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Bill Valach.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Brian and good morning everyone.
I am pleased that you’re able to join us today.
Before we begin our discussion this morning I would like to point out that we have prepared a PowerPoint presentation to supplement our discussion today and we’ll be referencing slides throughout the call.
For those of you accessing the call over the phone you can access those slides on our website at portlandgeneral.com.
Now referring to slide number two I would like to make our customary statements regarding Portland General Electric’s written and oral disclosures and commentary.
There will be statements in this call that are not based on historical facts and as such constitute forward-looking statements under current law.
These statements are subject to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made today.
For a description of some of the factors that may occur that could cause such differences the company requests that you read our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Qs.
The Form 10-Q for the third quarter 2012 is available on our website at portlandgeneral.com.
The company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise and this Safe Harbor statement should be incorporated as part of any transcript of this call.
Portland General Electric’s third quarter earnings were released before the market opened today and the release is available at portlandgeneral.com.
Referring to slide three leading our discussion today are Jim Piro President and CEO and Maria Pope Senior Vice President of Finance CFO and Treasurer.
Jim will begin today’s presentation by providing a general overview of the quarter’s results and our strategic capital projects.
Then Maria will provide more detail around the quarterly results and following our prepared remarks we will then open the lines up for your questions.
And it’s my pleasure to turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Welcome to Portland General Electric’s third quarter 2012 earnings call.
As slide four shows PGE’s third quarter net income was $38 million or $0.50 per share.
We are reaffirming our 2012 earnings guidance of $1.85 to $2 per share and will provide guidance for 2013 on next quarter’s call.
As you can see on slide five today I’ll give you an update on Oregon’s economy and discuss operational excellence as well as the progress we’re making on our strategic initiatives.
Then Maria will provide a financial update detailing PGE’s third quarter results liquidity and our outlook for the remainder of the year.
Now let’s move to slide six for the economic outlook in our operating area.
Oregon continues to transition from a natural resource commodity manufacturing economy to one that is more diversified.
Our operating area has seen continued growth in high tech most clearly with Intel’s D1X fab the largest in the world which Intel recently announced would double in size.
In addition four data centers and a solar manufacturer have located here in the past two years.
We have also seen significant growth in parts manufacturing and healthcare sector.
The State’s unemployment rates continues to decline dropping to 8.7% in September from 9.5% a year ago.
The unemployment rate in our operating area is averaging 7.6% down from 8.3% last year.
We have continued to see customer growth of about 0.5% annually since 2009.
Since this time last year we have added 4 500 customers.
So far this year our weather adjusted energy deliveries are up about 0.5% over 2011 weather adjusted levels driven primarily by the industrial sector.
We expect to maintain that 0.5% growth for the full-year.
Now on to slide seven for operational excellence.
We continue to deliver excellent operating performance company-wide.
Our generating plant availability continues to be in the top quartile and has exceeded our expectations for the year.
Our distribution reliability metrics which measure the frequency and duration of the customer outages are strong.
This performance is a key component that influences our customer satisfaction.
We are the number one investor on utility in the nation for residential customer satisfaction and in the top [best of] for business customer satisfaction in JD Power &amp; Associates 2012 Electric Utility Satisfaction Study.
We are also ranked second nationally for key customer satisfaction by TQS Research Incorporated.
In addition we are making good progress on our continuous improvement projects aiming at transforming our operations to be more efficient and effective.
I am proud of our employee’s hard work and dedication to customer service outstanding system reliability and cost efficiency and effectiveness efforts.
Now lets please refer to slide eight for an update on our progress executing our IRP action plan.
For our capacity and energy RFP PGE received 32 bids representing 15 projects.
These include a mix of projects to be sold to PGE projects that would sell power to us under long-term purchase agreement and PGE’s benchmark bids.
We are working with an independent evaluator selected by the Oregon Public Utility Commission to evaluate the bids.
We expect to have our final shortlist of projects by the end of 2012 with final resource selection taking place in the first or second quarter of 2013.
Moving to slide nine we are also making progress with our renewable RFP; we issued the RFP and submitted a benchmark proposal in October and all other bids are due next week.
We expect to have a final shortlist by the end of the first quarter of 2013 with final resource selection occurring within the first half of next year.
Now turn to slide 10 for our Cascade Crossing Transmission Project update.
We continue developing and providing information for the draft settled with Environmental Impact Statement and the Environmental Analysis for the Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs.
We are also in the midst of negotiations with Bonneville Power on agreements that will enable the integration and operation of the project into the Northwest Power Grid with specific for regarding their potential participation in the project as a co-owner and with the Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs on easements to cross tribal land.
The project is in the planning and permitting stage and we expect to receive the necessary permit in 2014.
Subject to receiving all necessary approvals we are targeting an in service date no earlier than 2017.
Overall we are making progress on the RFPs and Cascade Crossing that will deliver long-term value to our customers as well as contributing to potential growth for the company.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Maria Pope our Chief Financial Officer to discuss our financial and operating results in greater detail.
Thank you Jim.
Turning to slide 11 net income for the third quarter of 2012 was $38 million or $0.50 per share compared with $27 million or $0.36 per share for the third quarter of 2011.
For the first nine months of the year our net income was $113 million or $0.49 per share versus last year when we earned the $118 million or $0.57 per share.
Quarter-over-quarter the increase in net income was driven by three main factors: A 2% in residential energy deliveries due to warmer weather and adjustment to the PCAM or Cost Power Cost Adjustment Mechanism.
A small investment gain on our non-qualified benefit plan trust assets compared with an investment loss in the third quarter of last year.
Year-to-date earnings are lower than last year due to a decrease in residential energy deliveries and less favorable high drought conditions.
On slide 12 total retail revenues for the quarter were $422 million up $16 million from the third quarter of last year.
Revenues related to the PCAM increased quarter-over-quarter as we recorded $4 million customer refund in the third quarter of 2011 and $7 million decrease to the 2011 customer refund this quarter.
Energy delivery revenues decreased quarter-over-quarter largely due to a 1% decrease in the average retail price of energy sold and an increase in the number of customers’ purchasing power from an energy service supplier rather than directly from PGE.
In particular we've seen some customers in the healthcare grocery and retail sectors shift to energy service suppliers.
However this is a neutral effect on gross margin as the loss revenue is offset by higher cost reduction and fixed generation charges.
Total retail energy deliveries increased approximately 0.5% quarter-over-quarter including a 2% increase in residential deliveries.
When energy deliveries are adjusted for weather and for certain industrial customers that minimally impact the margin loads were down in the third quarter about 0.4% versus last year.
This is driven by a decrease in commercial deliveries particularly in the government and education sectors.
Because of this decline we've reduced our full year weather adjusted low forecast from 1% to 0.5%.
This is in line with the 0.5% growth we've seen to the end of the third quarter of this year.
As you can see on slide 13 purchase power and fuel expense was flat quarter-over-quarter to $182 million.
The average variable power cost increased by 1% while [total] system load decreased by about the same amount.
Decreases in hydro and wind generation drove the overall variable power cost increase.
Generations from PGE-owned and mid-Columbia hydro projects exceeded our annual power cost update tariff forecast by about 14%.
However this is lower than last year’s particularly favorable hydro conditions.
Generation at our Biglow Canyon Wind Farm decreased quarter-over-quarter due to less favorable wind conditions.
Lower than expected wind generation also reduced our production tax credits which resulted in an increased effective tax rate for the quarter.
For the full year we expect our effective tax rate to be comparable to rates over the past few years which have ranged from 28% to 30%.
Net variable power costs were $4 million below the baseline for the third quarter for the total of $14 million below the baseline for the first nine months of 2012.
We estimate the power costs will be within the lower deadband in the PCAM for the full year.
So we do not expect to record a 2012 refund to the customers.
Moving on to slide 14 production distribution and administrative costs totaled $99 million in this quarter down $6 million from the third quarter of last year.
Higher plant maintenance and pension costs were offset by lower distribution system and administrative expenses.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter was $63 million up $4 million quarter-over-quarter.
This includes a $3 million decrease related to the deferral of costs associated with several capital projects.
So far this year we've deferred $11 million and expect to defer a total of $16 million for the year.
Capital expenditures this quarter were $81 million and totaled $218 million for the first nine months of 2012.
We expect capital expenditures for the full year to be $328 million.
Please now turn to slide 15.
We continue to maintain a solid financial position including investment grade credit ratings and strong liquidity.
As of September 30 we had $755 million in cash in available revolver capacity.
In October we redeemed 100 million first-mortgage bonds bringing our equity to 51% a little over our target of 50% debt and 50% equity.
Our need for additional long-term debt or equity will depend on the timing of Cascade Crossing and the outcome of the RFPs.
As Jim noted we're on track to be within a full-year earnings guidance range of $1.85 to $2 per share as shown on slide 16.
We have reduced our load forecast but we continue to benefit from favorable power supply operation and remain focused on improving the efficiency and effectiveness of our core utility operations.
Jim? Thank you Maria.
Our performance during the third quarter reflects our continued focus on operational excellence.
Moving forward we will continue to execute our business strategy and we will position the company for future investment opportunities that deliver value to our customers and to our shareholders.
Operator we now like to open the call for questions? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we will take our first question from Andrew Weisel with Macquarie Capital.
Couple of questions first on the timing of the RFP decisions and Cascade and service data it looks like they were all pushed back or potentially pushed back a little bit can you just walk us through a little bit about what drove you to those?  Really it’s just the timing to get through the process.
We had a little bit of delay when the OPC granted about a 10 day extension and getting information from the bidders into the process to clarify certain information around gas supply for the various projects.
So that slowed us down a little bit.
And then just there is the evaluation process we are going through.
So right now we are working on putting the shortlist together.
We hope to have a final shortlist by mid-December.
At that point then we will start negotiating with that shortlist of bidders.
All that is confidential and we can’t share that generally into the marketplace.
So and then ultimately we would like to get a final decision on the capacity and the energy resources either late Q1 or early Q2.
It really just depends on the speed of the negotiations as we go through that.
On the renewable I think we are pretty much on schedule.
We will get the bids next week and then we will go to that same process of putting the shortlist together and then start negotiating with that shortlist.
So it’s going a little bit slower but not materially slower than what we’ve initially laid out.
Our Cascade Crossing is a little bit more delayed but we continue to work on the environmental [putting] process.
It is a complex process.
We are putting all the information together and it’s just a nature of these projects as we go through them.
Okay then sort of bigger picture when you think about reducing the forecast for load growth we talked in the last call a little bit about the longer-term trends coming down as well how do you gauge the risk that in service dates for the generation projects or the transmission might get pushed back say another year or two? As it related to load forecast? Well I understand the short falling of your capacity but all things is equal as the demand is slower than expected might that affect in service dates? No not really because we are short utility.
We do not have enough existing generation to meet our retail load.
And so the resources that we are proposing to add are just to fill in that open position that we currently are buying in the marketplace.
So that really the timing of loads really does has little impact on the need for those resources.
We still need them irrespective of the speed of the load growth.
Okay very good and then lastly just if you clarify a little bit on pension there were some comments about some year-over-year impact from the benefit plan if you could quantify that as then as we approach year end may be early thoughts on somewhat the 2013 pension effect might look like? Maria you want to comment on that one.
Sure we have had an increase in our pension expense from 2011 to 2012.
And we have offset the vast majority of that with reductions in other areas and we expect to do that as well in ’13.
What we have reflected in customer prices is about $5.1 million and that was roughly what our pension expense was in ’11.
In ’12 its $13.6 million and in ‘13 we are expecting it to go up roughly about another $10 million although we have not finished the estimates for that.
Most of that change is due to the lower discount rates.
And we will take our next question from Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
So how are you thinking about the timing of your general rate case here? And how do recent ROE outcomes in the states impact your rating? So we are just we just finished our 2013 budget and we are looking at the 2014 budget.
Right now we are planning to file a 2014 rate case; we probably plan to file that in February.
We still haven't made a final decision on that but we are going through all the steps to look at the numbers.
Obviously we have to consider what's going on across the country in terms of ROEs.
You've seen overall throughout the country a trend downwards but that's something we take into account as we make decisions on filing the case.
We have a couple of projects that come online in 2014 that we really need to address one is the Boardman dry sorbent injection project that we need to implement to meet our requirements under the new (inaudible) rules and our step agreement with the states.
So that's a pretty important project.
We also have a couple of small capital projects that are coming into service.
So those are all factoring into our decisions as well as what Maria talked about in terms of the pension that's another issue we are going to have to address.
So we are making plans right now.
We haven't made the final decision yet but we are just going through the numbers but kind of stepping through the process.
We would likely file as we make the decision in February.
In Oregon it’s about a 10 months process to get through that overall process.
So rates would be effective January of 2014.
And at this point the decision in terms of a pure utility in terms of for their ROE I think we will get one more before you ultimately make the decision on whether to pull the trigger? Yeah that's part of it.
We look across the nation too and see what the interest rates are doing that all goes into our evaluation on when we file a case or not Maria do you have anything else to add?  No and I would also note that in addition what Northwest Natural’s I think you are referring to there have been other utilities that have filed in Oregon in terms of Idaho (inaudible) and Pacific is currently working towards the settlement on their current rate case.
And we will take our next question from Lauren Duke with Deutsche Bank.
It looks like you are expecting ongoing CapEx to be up about $50 million in 2013 and 2014 versus your disclosures from last quarter.
Can you just explain what that relates to and if that's also coming into play in your rate case timing decisions.
Sure our capital expenditures for 2012 are pretty much unchanged.
As we look at 2013 they are up a little bit but not significantly and these capital expenditures are not driving any decision with regard to the rate case.
When we look at the larger rate case driven capital expenditures those would be the RFP project and Cascade Crossing that Jim talked about earlier.
And those probably wouldn't affect us in 2014.
It still is a capacity resource which would come online in 2015.
And so that would again that would go into maybe a 2015 rate case.
So as far as 2014 or more of the smaller projects that we've been growing as well as the ongoing capital to reinforce the system.
And then secondly do you plan to disclose what your renewable benchmark project is and if not what's your thinking behind that when you disclose the capacity and energy RFPs project.
At this time we don't have any plan to disclose the name of our renewable benchmark project.
PGE's acquisition project is subject to an agreement with the third party which is covered under the confidentiality agreement.
So we currently don't have any plans to disclose the name of the project unless we are selected as the winning bidder.
And we will take our next question from Brian Russo with Ladenburg Thalmann.
The $100 million of first mortgage bonds that were redeemed essentially that was debt reduction that wasn’t refinanced with other debt correct? No we use our excess cash exactly.
Okay so when we're looking to ‘13 over ‘12 total debt should be down roughly a 100 million? Yes we also have some maturities that are taking place in ‘13 as well and we currently continue to have excess cash although not nearly as high as it was at the end of third quarter at 156 million.
And a lot of that again will depend on the timing of the capital expenditures.
Just if you can convey what level of confidence you have in earnings at the 9% kind of utility benchmark ROE in ‘13 given the lower revised load forecast? If you look at our load forecast for 2012 the main areas are really the commercial sectors which tends to move around a bit.
As Jim described in his opening comments we're continuing to see very strong industrial growth which is really where we have forecast the vast majority of our long-term growth to come from and in particular Intel is expanding and that also has implications to other customers of our in addition to Intel who were significant suppliers to them.
We're also seeing a number of datacenters come in to the area and have made announcements for future growth as well as coming online right now and we've actually even seen a new solar customer enter the market and take their production up quite significantly.
So we see this as a blip for this year but we don’t see it changing our long-term trends our ability to earn our target of about 9% which is we have talked about before is about 1% off of where we see our regulated ROE of 10% which is our current rate.
Okay so we might expect growth to lower growth to accelerate in ‘13 over the 12 level of 0.5%?  Sure that would certainly be our expectation as we disclosed in our prior documents we estimated over 1% load growth on a pre-continual basis and much of that is coming from the industrial sector.
And we will take our next question from Sarah Akers with Wells Fargo.
Appreciate the comments on the pension expense.
I was wondering if you could comment on the O&amp;M trend or goal for 2013 I thought for 2012 it was to keep it flat is that the case again in ‘13?  Sure what we have done is we have taken a look at our overall O&amp;M spending and as we have noted we do have a number of inflationary things happening to us in terms of rising commodity prices healthcare costs salary increases and others and we have really worked hard to offset those natural costs inflation factors with cost reduction activities and being more efficient.
As we have mentioned in the past we have benchmarked almost every major area of the company and has significant plans in place to reduce our costs.
We have implemented a number of new systems and new financial system and new supply chain systems aimed at reducing our purchasing costs and just this past Monday we went live with new inventory and work management systems.
None of these changes [assuming] on the operations is easy and takes a lot of work.
So it’s really a project or series of project that we are implementing over the long term.
Offsetting that is potential discussion which is in the numbers that we’ve already talked about.
So we continue to focus on this area but I wouldn’t place too much emphasis on our numbers in any one quarter and really look to our longer term trends guidance on the last state of the slide back of the $105 million to $110 million.
(Operator Instructions) and we will take our next question from Mike Bates with D.A.
Davidson.
I have a couple of questions.
Just on the visibility is to why and when the asset in the region has been performing below expectations? We have been doing lot of work on this topic just because we are learning more about the wind regime and the (inaudible) and so we have done new studies and we are trying to evaluate those studies in the context that what we are seen and overall this is up against fairly new industry just like hydro there is variability and if we are seeing some down years even though this years is probably one of our higher years but still little bit below our expectations.
So we continue to work with (inaudible) who is the expert in this area to really to understand wind regime and the gorge.
Again we are on to this maybe five years and learning more and more about the win regimes and even know the pattern is been down we are not sure this is the trends for sure but we are trying to evaluate the best we can and they are helping us study and learn the impacts of the various winds [PCAM] have on each other as well as just the overall wind regime and gorge.
This will be probably our topic in our next rate case as we go through it and talk to the commission about how do we adjust for the uncertainty of wind and deal with the variability that we've seen over the last few years.
And in your (inaudible) you disclosed that power costs are expected to be about $22 million lower in 2013 versus 2012 if I read it correctly and does that assume that [Biglow] assets performed at a level in line with historical expectations or if those expectations been revised downwards reflect … In the annual update tariff we use the capacity factors from the previous rate case and those represent not necessarily the historic average but represent the studies that were performed at the time we decided to move forward with those projects.
So they do not necessarily reflect any kind of average of the historic results we've seen.
So that's the assumption in there.
The only way you can adjust those capacity factors is as we see think going into a general rate case and changing that mechanism on how their forecast is for each annual update tariff.
That $22 million does not include any of the recent experiences we've seen at the wind farms.
And Michael just for perspective in both 2011 and 2012 we are looking at about $0.03 to $0.04 a share impact.
And we will take our next question with Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
I know you've already kind of addressed this a little bit with their renewable projects.
But you had mentioned on last quarter’s earnings call that you wouldn't disclose particular names of projects for competing RFP bids but that you might provide some general statistics I am wondering if we are going to see that anytime sooner or if you could give us some detail today.
The process right now is we won't get all the bids until next week.
I think the day is November 13 due.
So we typically once we get all those in and assess them as we did with energy and capacity we send out a general term report on how many bids we received and generally a number of them and just some general characteristics.
We can't disclose the names of the bidders.
That's all confidential but we can provide some general characteristics and just some broad information on the bids and how many megawatts how many bids how many different kinds of bidders some of that general information like we did with the energy and I would expect we would do that just because of the interest.
My sense is there will be a very competitive bidding process.
We seem to be the only one out there acquiring new renewable resources as we look at the other utilities around the region.
So we expect a lot of the interest in that RFPs.
And just a minor thing you talked a little bit about pension expense but when we look at your run rate for overall operating expense for 2012 when we look into 2013 is it a little too early to provide any guidance around that or where might you stand.
Yeah our pension is the area that is going the most between ’12 and ’13 and we will provide a better guidance on full O&amp;M expenses on our next call as well as guidance for the year.
(Operator Instructions) and we will take our next question from (inaudible).
My questions have been answered.
Okay looks like we don't have any other calls.
We appreciate your interest in Portland General Electric and invite you to join us when we report our fourth quarter 2012 results.
Good morning everyone.
And welcome to Portland General Electric Company’s Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today is Friday February 22 2013.
This call is being recorded and as such all lines have been placed on-mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions).
For opening remarks I would like to turn the conference call over to Portland General Electric’s Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Bill Valach.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Brian and good morning everyone.
We are pleased that you can join us today.
Before we begin our discussion this morning I would like to remind you that we have prepared a PowerPoint presentation to supplement our discussion today and we’ll be referring to slides throughout the call.
For those of you accessing the call over the phone these slides are available on our website at portlandgeneral.com.
Referring to slide 2 I would also like to make our customary statements regarding Portland General Electric’s written and oral disclosures and commentary.
There will be statements on this call that are not based on historical facts and as such constitute forward-looking statements under current law.
These statements are subject to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made today.
For a description of some of the factors that may occur that could cause such differences the company requests that you read our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Qs.
The Form 10-K for the year end 2012 is available on our website at portlandgeneral.com.
The company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise and the Safe Harbor statement should be incorporated as part of any transcript of this call.
Portland General Electric’s fourth quarter and full year earnings were released before the market opened today and the release is available on our website at portlandgeneral.com.
Leading our discussion today are Jim Piro President and CEO and Maria Pope Senior Vice President of Finance CFO and Treasurer.
Jim will begin today’s presentation by providing a review of our performance in 2012 and an update on our strategic capital projects.
Then Maria will provide more detail around the quarterly and annual results our expectations for 2013 and our 2014 general rate case filing.
Following these prepared remarks we will open the lines up for your questions.
And it’s now my pleasure to turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Welcome to Portland General Electric’s 2012 fourth quarter and year-end earnings call.
As slide four shows on today’s call I'll provide an overview of our financial and operating performance give an update on the economy and our operating area and discuss the progress on our strategic initiatives.
Then Maria will provide a financial update discussing PGE’s fourth quarter and full year results as well as our recently filed general rate case and outlook for 2013.
So let's begin.
As you can see on slide 5 PGE's net income was $28 million or $0.38 per share for the fourth quarter of 2012 and $141 million or $1.87 per share for the full year.
We are initiating full year 2013 earnings guidance of $1.85 to $2 per diluted share.
Now into operational excellence on slide 6.
We continue to deliver excellent operating performance in 2012.
PGE's delivery system and generating facilities operated extremely well with the average duration and frequency of outages being low and in the top quartile.
Our generating plant availability factors were better than our goals.
In regard to overall customer satisfaction PGE's ratings remain strong.
We are the top investor owned utility in the nation for residential customer satisfaction and number one in the west for general business customer satisfaction according to JD Powers and Associates.
PGE also ranks second nationally for large key customer satisfaction in the TQS research survey.
I am also pleased with the results we're seeing from our benchmarking and best practices work.
We've been leveraging technology and implementing new systems in several areas of the company including transmission and distribution human resources and finance and accounting.
These changes are helping us to create efficiency improve processes and reduce costs which is important in our efforts to keep customer prices as low as possible in the face of growing regulatory and inflationary cost.
I'd like to take this opportunity to recognize the hard work and dedication of our employees who have helped us maintain excellent service to our customers.
Now let us move on to slide 7 for the economic outlook in our operating area.
We're seeing continued growth particularly in the high tech sector and manufacturing sector.
In the second half of 2012 Intel and Nike announced significant expansion plans in our service area and while the solar industry's environment continues to be challenging it's more than offset by growth in the high tech and data centers.
We're also encouraged by recent labor statistics.
The unemployment rate in our operating area averaged 7.4% in December 2012 down from 7.9% in 2011.
The improving housing market along with Oregon's continued second in the nation ranking for in migration helped PGE add customers in 2012.
Weather-adjusted 2012 energy deliveries are up about 0.6% over 2011 levels driven primarily by the industrial sector which grew about 2%.
For 2013 we are expecting weather-adjusted growth of 0.5% to 1% net of energy efficiency.
Now please refer to slide 8 for an update on our progress executing our IRP action plan.
We are nearing the completion of rigorous RFP processes and I will cover where we are with the four types of resources we are seeking.
First capacity: Our Port Westward Unit 2 natural gas plant was selected to meet our flexible capacity need.
This new 220 MW natural gas fuel plant is designed for maximum flexibility to integrate growing renewable energy resources and serve as peaking resource during periods of high customer demand.
The plant is expected to cost between $300 million and $310 million excluding the allowance of funds used during construction and will create up to 200 construction jobs in the area.
The in-service state is currently slated for the first quarter of 2015.
In regard to both of our seasonal peaking resource and our energy resource negotiations are currently underway with the top bidders and we expect to announce the outcome by mid-year.
The bids on the energy resource final shortlist include both purchase power agreements and PG ownership options.
The capacity in energy RFP process has been thorough and we are pleased that the independent evaluator representing the Oregon Public Utility Commission confirmed that the RFP was conducted in a fair unbiased and transparent manner.
And now renewables.
As you can see on slide 9 we received 64 bids representing 39 distinct generating projects with a combined nameplate capacity of 4 450 MW for our renewable RFP seeking 100 average MW.
These include a mix of projects to be sold to PGE pursuant to an asset purchase agreement projects that would sell power to us under a long-term power purchase agreement and PGE's benchmark bid.
The independent evaluator is also evaluating these bids and is scheduled to release their report on this RFP process next month.
We expect final resource selection to occur by mid-year.
Now on to Cascade Crossing.
In January we signed a memorandum of understanding with Bonneville Power Administration agreeing to pursue a phased in and integrated approach to achieving PGE’s transmission goals.
The original Cascade Crossing line would be shortened from 250 miles to approximately 120 miles and would run from Boardman to Central Origen.
Construction would take at least two years and could start as early as 2017.
In addition PGE would build at least substations install series capacitors to boost capacity of existing lines make other transmission investments in the Portland and Salem areas and explore the possibility of asset exchanges and other potential transmission opportunities to deliver up to 2600 MW to customers.
We expect the cost of the overall modified project to be more than $800 million.
This collaborative regional solution would avoid most impacts to two national forests private forests and agricultural land and a tribal reservation.
It has been received positively by President Obama’s rapid response team for transmission as well as other stakeholders.
As we continue negotiations with BPA we will update the expected timing and estimated cost.
We are focused on delivering the least cost least risk solutions to provide reliable power to our customers.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Maria Pope our Chief Financial Officer to go into more depth on our financial and operating results.
She will also discuss our general rate case which we followed last Friday and provide details on our guidance for 2013.
Thank you Jim.
Turning to slide 10 net income for the fourth quarter was $28 million and $0.38 per share compared with the earnings in the fourth quarter of 2011.
For the full year net income was $141 million or $1.87 per share versus last year when we earned the $147 million or $1.95 per share.
Earnings are at the low end of our guidance due to warm weather and higher income taxes in the fourth quarter.
These factors along with increased pension expense were partially offset by deferrable cost related to four capital projects.
Total retail revenues for the quarter were $445 million down $18 million from the same period last year driven by 2% decrease in customer prices and a 2% decrease in energy deliveries as I mentioned primarily due to warmer weather.
These were offset by a combination of regulatory items netted out in depreciation.
Annual retail revenue which was flat year-over-year were also affected by warmer weather and the customer price decrease.
For the fourth quarter weather adjusted energy deliveries were up 1.4%.
This was driven by gains in all sectors led by industrial customers.
For the full year Weather adjusted energy deliveries were up 0.6% due to strong demand from high-tech parts manufacturing and other industrial commercial customers.
This growth in net energy efficiency reduced our annual growth by about 0.5%.
For the fourth quarter purchased power and fuel expense decreased to $22 million versus last year.
For the full year the decrease was $34 million with net variable power cost $17 million below the baseline driven by low purchase power and natural gas prices.
Since our regulated ROE was below 11% we did not record a refund to customers under the Power Cost Adjustment Mechanism or PCAM.
In 2011 power cost was $34 million below the base line and we recorded a modest customer relief.
Generation from PGE owned and Mid-Columbia Hydro Project in 2012 were 11% above normal but 27% less than 2011.
Generation at our Biglow Canyon Wind Farm also decreased about 7% from last year.
Lower than expected wind generation also reduced our Production Tax Credit or PTC in both 2011 and 2012.
Moving on to slide 12; Production distribution and administrative cost totaled a $114 million this quarter equal to the fourth quarter of 2011.
For the full year O&amp;M expense was $427 million in line with guidance.
This is $8 million higher than 2011 primarily due to a $7 million increase in pension expense.
Depreciation and amortization for the full year was $248 million and this reflects a $21 million increase over 2011 due to capital additions several regulatory items I mentioned earlier offset by the deferral of cost related to four capital projects.
Income taxes increased $6 million year-over-year as our effective tax rate in 2012 was 31.4% versus 28.3% a year ago.
Lower wholesale sales in the state of Washington which has no state income tax resulted in an increase to our composite state tax rate and led to a $5 million revaluation of deferred taxes.
We filed for regulatory recovery of the deferred tax balance in January and are awaiting response from OPUC.
Now into slide 13 as Jim mentioned we filed a general rate case last Friday with a 2014 test year.
If approved the average overall price increase on January 1 2014 would be about 6%.
Our filing includes an ROE of 10% a capital structure of 50% debt 50% equity and the overall revenue increase is 105 million approximately 40% of the request cover capital addition and 60% covers operation and maintenance expenses.
These include capital investments in generation and information technology pension health and wellness expenses updated wind capacity factors to reflect actually history plant operations and maintenance expense and regulatory requirement including critical infrastructure protection.
Jim also noted our 2013 guidance of $1.85 to $2 per share.
As you can see on slide 14 this range is based on load growth of 0.5% to 1% over weather-adjusted 2012 level reflecting growth in the commercial and industrial sectors.
Normal hydro and plant operations and wind generation were closing reflecting historical performance.
O&amp;M for the year between $440 million and $460 million this range includes $10 million increase in pension expense year-over-year and a $10 million or 2% annual increase in inflationary expenses.
Also included are depreciation expense of 244 million and continuation of capital deferral capital expenditures of $514 million and approximately $6 million in noncash AFUDC for Port Westward Unit 2.
Our guidance does not include capital expenditures or AFUDC for any of the other RFP projects.
Now into slide 15 we continue to maintain a solid financial position including investment grade credit ratings and strong liquidity.
Capital expenditures were $93 million in the fourth quarter 2012 and totaled $310 million for the year.
In the fourth quarter PGE’s revolving credit line increased from $660 million to $700 million.
As of December 31st we had $628 million in liquidity and were at equity ratio of 51%.
At this time we expect to fund the construction of Port Westward Unit 2 with internally generated funds and debts.
The need for any equity financing will depend primarily on the outcome and timing of the energy and renewable RFPs and Cascade Crossing.
Jim? Thank you Maria.
Our performance in 2012 reflects our employees’ hard work and dedication.
We are looking forward to continued progress on our strategic initiatives in 2013 including selecting energy and renewable resources reaching a definitive agreement on Cascade Crossing and completing the 2014 general rate case.
Before we open the call for questions I would like to update you on some changes in responsibilities for two members of PGE’s officer team that were announced today.
In my continued efforts to broaden the experience of the officer team while still meeting our commitment to operational excellence and business growth I am pleased to announce that effective March 1; Maria will be taking on responsibility for all our generating plans power supply operations and resource strategy.
Jim Lobdell who is currently Vice President of Power Operations and Research Strategy will succeed her.
Jim has been with the company almost 30 years and during his tenure has served in a number of financial roles.
He became an officer in 2001 and in his current role he has been instrumental in meeting our customer’s energy needs planning for our energy future and bringing to completion the energy capacity and renewable RFPs that are critical to meeting our customers’ energy need.
I want to thank Maria for her many contributions in the CFO role and look forward to working with both Jim and Maria in their new roles.
Now operator we are ready to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And we will take our first question from Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
Couple of quick questions here; first on D&amp;A did you not take the entire capital deferral in 2012? Curious way D&amp;A ticks down in 2013 in the guidance.
We are taking the entire capital deferral.
Our D&amp;A adjust periodically and it has been influenced by a couple of items.
One is if you see tax credits that we talked about in some prior calls and then also the Boardman accelerated depreciation which became effective in mid-2011 and increased customer prices about 1%.
So overall it’s going to be about $4 million different roughly in line with 2012.
And is $500 million of incremental growth cap ex associated with the 3 RFPs still the magic number before you would issue equity? When we look at our financing; the $500 million are internally generated funds the amount of additional equity we're able to create was a capacity for additional debt financing and as we look it sort of year in and year out that number can fluctuate and we ended 2012 with a 51% equity ratio.
So we have a little bit of wind to us but we also try and make sure that our tiding with regards to all financing works well and provides the most flexibility.
And then lastly in your GRC filings from last week I felt that you are assuming 2% negative demand growth in the ‘13 filing.
Can you reconcile that with that 0.5% to 1% view? Does your guidance from today exclude load margin industrial customers if that's the difference? You know Neil that's a great question and one of the things that we have a difficult time with and have worked hard on is our low forecasting of our large industrial customers and certain of that risk that takes place in their operation.
And so as an example we had a large paper company that ceased its operations at the end of December and in advance of those sorts of announcements we're not able to forecast exactly when those things will take place.
So when we look at our guidance that's out of 0.5 to 1% for 2013 the total 2014 number that's in our rate case is essentially 1% higher than that.
So whilst there's some ups and downs the overall trends of growth in our area are consistent and as Jim mentioned we are seeing very strong industrial growth and continued in migration.
So we feel very good about our load forecast.
Now we will take a next question from Lauren Duke with Deutsche Bank.
Can you comment on Cascade Crossing? You mentioned that $800 million for kind of full scope of the project.
Can you give any sense of rough breakdown about how is that is the 120 mile line that you talked about that could start in 2017 versus some of the other projects the substations and other pieces of that? No we really haven’t given that information out yet; we are still doing new designs likely the line from the Coyote Springs area to new Pine Grove substation will be a single circuit line.
So we are still not redoing the estimates for the cost that probably less than half but we are still working on final estimates.
So it’s all part of the combined analysis that we’re doing based on the new MOU with Bonneville.
Okay and some of that I guess the line you mentioned could start in 2017 could some of the other spending occur before 2017 or would it really build on the line? Now there could be some investments ahead of time.
That’s really based on the conversations we have been having with Bonneville and how we could optimize the system and looking at it from a single utility prospective.
So there might be some investments ahead of the time but until we reach final agreements with Bonneville I really can’t give any more detail on that.
And then one quick other question if I may.
Can you quantify what the weather impact was for just fourth quarter and then for the full year as well? Sure.
The weather impact for the fourth quarter was roughly about $0.07 and for the full year was $0.14.
And we’ll now take our next question from Brian Russo with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Correct me if I am wrong but it looks like your ‘13 CapEx has increased about $100 million and I would assume that’s predominantly Port Westward 2? Yes that’s a lot of that includes Port Westward 2.
We also have some additional spending of about $43 million in our base business.
This includes a readiness center for disaster recovery and some other expenditures largely in our distribution but also on our generation area.
Could you kind of just outline the spend for Port Westward 2 in ‘13 ‘14 and ‘15 given the first quarter ‘15 start date? Sure.
What we’re forecasting right now is about a $161 million this year $107 million in 2014 and then $33 million in 2015.
And what is your AFUDC rate? Right now it would be at the 8.33 rate which is our combined debt equity rate and then what we do not accrue for the equity portion of that we’re reflecting approximately $6 million in our guidance for 2013 for the AFUDC portion of Port Westward.
And it’s my understanding that you guys don’t elect the honest depreciation because of all the PTCs you guys use right? Each year we make a decision based on where we are given the accelerate depreciation we have on our exciting wind farm the amount of production tax credits to make sure that we make the best decision for customers and the company and utilize the maximum amount of opportunity that we have.
We have most recently been at that maximum have not recently elected honest depreciation.
This next texture we’ll again take a look the analysis and make a decision.
I’d right now we’re kind of on the fence as to whether we would elect it.
Because when - you filed your’14 test year of $3.1 billion and assuming all else equal should we add 300 million of net plan for Port Westward 2 to kind of gauge what ‘15 test year would look like? I think that’s a fair assessment and the other would be we do continue to have growth in our deferred tax assets.
If you look between ‘11 to ‘12 we went up from just under $530 million to $588 million I think at the end of the year in deferred tax asset.
So that will continue to grow as we maximize the tax opportunities that we have.
And lastly I’m surprised that the total cost of the revised Cascade project of $800 million I’m just curious what are the moving parts there? It looks like the line is cut in half but yet you’re adding substations and I’m just trying to get a better feel for what makes this $800 million? It’s combination of companies.
Obviously we took out a piece of the line that we would build from the Pine Grove area to Salem.
So that’s reduction in cost but as part of the MOU our anticipation is that we would invest in certain projects with Bonneville Power Administration that would increase the flow on the southern part of their system and so those investments that wouldn’t be in the exact transmission line but in other facilities that would increase the capacity on the Southern portion of Bonneville.
So it is a combination of assets including the new substation of Pine Grove.
Is the line going to be a 230KV or is it going to be a 500KV? It will be a 500KV line but likely single circuit from Coyote to the New Pine Grove Substation.
So basically $1 million a mile? $2 million to 2.5 million a mile? Other typical numbers for mileage but again we haven’t disclosed that.
And we will now take our first question from Andrew Weisel with Macquarie Capital.
Few questions for you.
First on the 2013 guidance if I do kind of accrued back at the envelope of what the earned ROE is looking like I get to a number in the ballpark of 9.2.
Jim I saw some quotes over the last weekend that without the help from the rate case you would be earning more like 5.9%.
How can I reconcile those two? So in 2013 we have continued focus on O&amp;M cost control to be able to manage through to a three year gap between rate cases and as I noticed in the script we have only had a couple percent increase over the entire turn since our last rate case.
Unfortunately we just can’t maintain that level and we will continue in particular to see rising pension cost unless we are able to bring in to customer prices the proposal that we have made.
We also expect to have next year on the tax side; we won't have the $0.07 hit that we had this year for the change in deferred tax assets.
And then also we continue to see some modest load growth some return to more normal weather and some other items.
So we are not able to seek recovery of these expenses on capital side which I represented about 40% of our rate base request or the additional O&amp;M expenses that will be coming into effect then we would be at that number that Jim has quoted in the rate case about 5.5% to 5.7%.
We also have a couple of major capital projects not major but capital projects coming into service in 2014.
Well that’s reflected in the rate base outlook of 3.1 right? It is and note that the 3.1 rate base has also reduced because of the deferred tax assets that we’re continuing to build.
The difference is in 2013 we’re booking AFUDC on those projects where in 2014 we have put into rate base.
Yes.
Now a just few on the growth projects.
First with the peak at Port Westward 2 why didn’t you vet the shortlist with the regulators? I understand that you kind of worked with an independent evaluator and decided that Port Westward 2 was the winner but I’m just curious why not go through the process of vetting that with regulators before you start construction and do you see any potential risk that you won’t be able to recover some of that spending down the road? So we went through a very exhaustive RFP process and allowed all the bidders to provide information around their bids.
The process went for over 12 months and those bids were becoming stale as of January 31st.
So we really needed to move forward to capture the economics of those projects before those bids became not valuable to us in terms of being able to execute.
So that was one consideration.
The independent evaluator watched over the process and we’ve done this before in prior proceedings.
They’ve made sure the process was fair and reasonable and they concluded that we had a good shortlist and so we saw no additional reasons to ask for acknowledgement which would slowdown the process and not be able to capture the value of those bids that were put in.
And we never have to asked for acknowledgement in the RFP processes before.
So we felt like we’ve followed the process we had good report from the independent evaluator and based on that we decided to go forward.
Okay fair enough and on the base load one it says the shortlist include PPAs and PGE ownership and you’re beginning negotiations with the top bidder.
I’m sure it’s tough to get in detail can you add any color where the PGE proposed plan lies in the shortlist whether it’s something that is still a likely contender if negotiations don’t go well or how we kind of think about possible outcomes around that? No this has to be a very confidential process and we can’t release any information during the negotiations process.
Understood I had to at least try and then my last question on Cascade Crossing the construction obviously pushed back a couple of years.
You mentioned that some things could come sooner but for the main line just curious on the timing why isn’t the construction expected to start until 2017 and I’m not bit sure Obama would call that rapid response if it’s going to be so for out.
I can tell you building transmission projects are challenging to go through all the processes and environmental permitting and so forth.
We figured a bridging strategy to give us some time to get the project built.
We want to work with Bonneville on the right integration of this project in the grid.
I think we are really pleased that we have found a single utility solution that really reduces impacts on the environment and in that light I think everyone is willing to take a little more time to get it done right and make sure that we get the best value for all customers in the region.
And we will now take our next question from Sarah Akers with Wells Fargo Given that Port Westward is going online in the quarter after your ‘14 test year what are your current thoughts around the strategy and timing of recovery of that investment? The project will go in in early 2015 so it will be after the 2014 test year.
So we will look at either a couple option one is either file a general rate case for 2015 to include Port Westward 2 into your revenue requirements or there is some possibility we could just update our 2014 test year and just incrementally include Port Westward.
So those are two viable options.
As we move forward and look at our cost structure for 2015 and have conversations with the regulator we’ll decide which of those passes the most optimum for both our customers and the company.
We will have to file a rate case for 2015 again early in 2014 but we’ll have to have some visibility on how we are going to do that.
So we have some time to make that decision.
Much of that will be predicated on what we think O&amp;M cost are for 2015 as well as what the load growth in 2015 look like.
So we have a couple of options there.
We will make that decision as we go through this year and if we decide to file a general rate case for 2015 we would do that in early February of 2014.
And when you say just update the 2014 test year could you do that in the current rate case process or would that be outside of this rate case didn't quite understand that offset.
It would be outside of this rate case it would be something we file next year in 2014 and again we could either layer Port Westward on to the 2014 approved test year as just an incremental change for determining appropriate prices or just file a new test year for 2015.
Okay so you wouldn’t necessarily have to open it up to a general rate case.
You could kind of go in on a single item with one specific update? Those are options.
We have to really talk with the folks and the consumer groups would want to make sure that 2015 looks okay.
So we are going to have to be some demonstration but rather than going through an exhaustive rate case if we’re only just going to ask for that incremental change as long as we can demonstrate that our prices are currently just and reasonable we may not have to do that.
But I think for you to assume that we file a general rate case is probably the safe assumption here.
If we can find another way to get at it we'll look at that.
And then in the past we thought about a structural regulatory lag of around a 100 basis points.
Is that still a reasonable expectation in the first year of new rates in '14 or is there any reason that we should see that lag start to compress in this next rate case.
So Sarah I think for forecasting purposes for your financial models and what not I would continue to use the 1%.
As we continue to close the gap on our rate base I think that that will shrink over time but in the near term I think the 1% is a safe number.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Bates with DA Davidson.
I wanted to ask one more follow up question to the cascade crossing issue if I could.
In the past you had characterized the project as a potential partnership with one partner being Pacific Corp.
Is that still a possibility under the modified plan that you're talking about? Yes we're trying to secure about 2 600 MW for this new MOU plan with Bonneville.
Pacific Corp still has an interest in about 600 average megawatts of that line and so we are still in conversation with Pacific Corp.
I think they want to see us get a little further down the road on the MOU or the agreements with Bonneville.
But they still have an interest in the lines to serve load in the southern part of their service territory in Oregon.
And do you have any expectations as far as when this moves beyond the MOU stage? Well we're starting right now the negotiations with Bonneville towards a definitive agreement doing planning studies and just looking at all parts of the structure of the agreement.
It's probably going to take us a good six months to really get clarity on that definitive agreement and get it lined out.
So that's kind of our timing.
All right thanks also any color on expected effective tax rate in 2013.
Sure what I would use for modeling purposes would be sort of the average of the last four years.
I noted that we had just over a 28% rate in 2011 and that was actually a low for us while 2012 was a high at just under 31.5.
Overall over the last four or five years we've averaged about 30%.
The big wildcard there is obviously the production tax credits with our wind farms and that really swings that rate.
We have a marginal rate but then that impacted by the PCCs and the amount of wind generation we expect to receive.
That’s also one of the things that contributes to the seasonality of the tax rate moving around between the quarters.
And we will take our next question from Maurice May with Wellington Shields.
Couple of questions.
First of all getting back to Cascade Crossing with Pacific Corp still in the picture; is it possible that they would invest 20% to 25% of that $800 million estimate? Yes if you take 600 over 2600 that’s a rough range of where they might be.
They are looking for bilateral capacity.
So that percentage might go up a little bit.
If we can fix here the full 2600 that’s what it would look like.
Okay and on the name Cascade Crossings since your line will not be crossing the Cascades any more is the name going to be changed? Great question we haven’t really got there.
We are still trying to get a path.
I think the bottom line is that we are trying to create a pass across the Cascades and at the end of the day what we will end up is with assets and rights and we will end up with a transmission path that hopefully will give us a full path across the Cascade.
Okay good and my second question has to do with hydro.
Can you review the hydro year to date the snowpack to date and the possible impact on PKM in 2013? The runoff forecast was in the 10-K but as I look at it here this is as of February 18th it’s 89% on the Columbia River at the Dalls which includes the Columbia Columbia River as well as the Snake River.
The mid-Columbia Grand Coulee which feeds our mid-Columbia contract is about 90%.
The Clackamas River at Estacada which is our west side project was about 98% and the Deschutes which is our Pelton Roundview project is about 92%.
Now this is still early in the year in terms of the run off forecast and even though these are below normal we have seen heavy snowfalls in March that can change these numbers.
So that’s why we mentioned in our guidance we are still assuming normal hydro.
When we get to the end of the March or clearly in the second quarter first quarter earnings call we will have better clarity on what the hydro looks like but right now it’s slightly below normal.
And we take our next question from John Alley with Decade Capital.
This is a follow up to Brian Russo's question regarding the deferred tax assets.
Maria you said those would flow in from ‘14 to ‘15? No.
So let me explain a little bit better.
What we did was our state tax composite rate changed by little bit less than 1%.
That will continue going forward and is reflected in our guidance.
What will not continue is the one time balance sheet adjustment to deferred taxes that resulted in the majority of the change and the higher rate in 2012.
So if you think about ‘12 to ‘13 numbers we’ll pick up about $0.07 a share on a tax line as we are forecasting 2013.
I meant the deferred taxes as relative to the rate base growing? Yes.
The deferred taxes will continue to grow as we maximize the amount of depreciation that we’re taking.
Remember we’ve invested a lot already in wind farms when we take accelerated depreciation on those.
We also have production tax credits.
Okay.
So when I think about the ‘14 rate base being $3.1 billion and then to Brian’s question do we just add Port Westward 2 on top of that to kind of come up with proxy for ‘15; what I guess is the start that we should be reducing that by for the deferred taxes? Yes.
What we forecast in the rate case is about a $150 million.
About a third to 40% is already reflected in the 2012 numbers.
So you can add about another $60 million and it’s in the testimony it roughly equals about the same.
So that would an additional $60 million reduction in ‘15.
Is that the way to think about that? Yes exactly.
Yes.
Okay.
And the primary reason from the reduction from ‘12 to ‘14 was that solely deferred taxes? Yes.
Offset by normal increases in capital expenditures.
Excluding Port Westward 2 our capital expenditure amounts are still growing.
Okay.
But we can assume that ‘15 will still be up but just not by the full amount of Port Westward from the 3.1.
Exactly.
Yes.
And then just to be clear so on $0.14 of weather in ‘12 that was versus normal? That was versus last year and versus normal let me get that one for you.
Versus normal it is 2011 in the first quarter was particularly cold and so over versus normal it would really be about a $0.04 would be the delta.
In '12 versus normal? Yes.
And we will take our first question from Andy Levi from Avon Capital.
Just a couple of questions.
On the renewal bid I guess it’s possible from what I have read that it could end up being an existing asset that you may end up purchasing and I know you cannot comment on that.
But if that where the case how would that work regulatory wise? Is there some type of mechanism that makes it easy for you guys to get in the rate base? Yes we have a renewable adjustment caused price mechanism that allows us to track in renewable resources in the year that they come into service through deferred account and then they go into customer's prices the following year.
We typically make that filing in April and then it is deferred accounting for the current year and then goes into current prices the following year.
So we do have a mechanism if there is an existing asset selected.
And if it happens to be a contract then we do annual updates of power costs and would go through the annual update tariff or in the case of our current rate case that would get updated into our power cost forecast.
So that makes I guess the financing of it a bit easier as far as how that affects earnings and then the drag from that.
Yes there is no lag that way.
It eliminates any drag.
Perfect and then on the energy piece I just want to make sure I understand the winning bid at this stage is that possible that that’s a build and buy or is that not a build and buy? As we said in our it could either be a purchase power contract or it could be an ownership option for PGE.
Obviously you can tell from this our benchmark did not win the bid or if you would have announced it.
So we are in negotiations with the top bidder and if and when we get to the finish line with that bidder then we would disclose the results of the bid.
But one of the possibilities is they build you buy.
Is that correct? That’s a possibility.
Right and I guess in some ways that’s a better scenario as far as again regulatory lag because you wouldn’t have to put any capital out until obviously the thing was built.
It depends on the structure of the agreement and it could go either way.
It could be one where they build and we buy at the end or we make progress payments if that was the option that was selected.
And we’ll take our next question from Steve Mars with Citizen’s Trust (ph).
You gave indication of the weather impact for the fourth quarter of last year as well as the full year.
Now for your 2013 earnings guidance is there a portion of that guidance affected by weather? Yes in terms of our guidance loads are effected by two different things.
One is weather and we use a normal weather forecast.
So that would be returning back to what are sort of our long term historical levels and that difference or pickup would be about $0.04.
We also have forecasted load growth of about 0.5% to 1%.
So that would also impact that line.
So the net of it is about a $0.04 estimate backed into your $1.85 to $2 earnings guidance for this year? Yes as is the load forecast growth that we have.
Again that’s over 2012 results but for 2013 we are assuming normal weather in the forecast.
(Operator Instructions).
And we’ll take our next question from Andy Levi with Avon Capital.
One last question I forgot to ask on the AFUDC guidance that you gave for this year I guess it’s $160 million that you’re going to spend on the PW2 right this year? Is that how I should understand it? Yes.
But I guess I had a lower whatever we didn’t know what the numbers were but just looking at the AFUDC.
I guess that’s not a full year of AFUDC on the 161 is that? No absolutely because we spend incrementally as the construction takes place when we make payment for equipment.
So most of our AFUDC is actually back end loaded.
Okay so that $6 million is a portion of I guess in some ways to 161.
So we will see a kind of show up also in 2014 plus whatever incremental spend you have in 2014.
Exactly.
And that concludes today’s question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Piro at this time I’ll turn the conference back over to you for any additional closing remarks.
Thank you all.
We appreciate your interest in Portland General Electric and invite you to join us when we report our first quarter 2013 results in May.
Thanks a lot and have a great day.
And ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning everyone.
And welcome to Portland General Electric Company’s First Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today is Wednesday May 1 2013.
This call is being recorded and all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions).
For opening remarks I would like to turn the conference call over to Portland General Electric’s Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Bill Valach.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Vicky and good morning everyone.
We are pleased that you can join us today.
And before we begin our discussion this morning I would like to remind you that we have prepared a PowerPoint presentation to supplement the discussion today and we’ll be referencing slides throughout the call.
For those of you accessing the call over the phone the slides are available on our website at investors.portlandgeneral.com.
Referring to slide 2 I'd also like to make our customary statements regarding Portland General Electric’s written and oral disclosures and commentary that there will be statements on this call that are not based on historical facts and as such constitute forward-looking statements under current law.
These statements are subject to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made today.
For a description of some of the factors that may occur that could cause such differences the company requests that you read our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10Qs.
Portland General Electric’s first quarter earnings were released before the market opened today and the release is available at portlandgeneral.com.
The company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise and this Safe Harbor statement should be incorporated as part of any transcript of this call.
As shown on slide 3 leading our discussion today are Jim Piro President and CEO and Jim Lobdell Senior Vice President of Finance CFO and Treasurer.
Jim Piro will begin today’s discussion by providing a review of our performance in the first quarter and update of our strategic initiatives.
Then Jim Lobdell will provide more detail around the quarterly results and our expectations for 2013.
Following these prepared remarks we will open the lineup for your questions.
And now it’s my pleasure to turn the call over to Jim Piro.
Thank Bill.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Welcome to Portland General Electric’s first quarter 2013 earnings call.
As slide 4 shows on today’s call I'll provide an overview of our financial and operating operational performance give an update on the economy and our operating area discuss the progress on our strategic initiatives and provide you an update on our general rate case.
Then Jim Lobdell will give you a financial update discussing the quarter’s results and our outlook for 2013.
So let’s begin.
As you can see n slide 5 our financial performance in first quarter was solid with net income of $49 million or $0.65 per diluted share.
This is equivalent to what we earned in the first quarter of 2012.
We are affirming full year 2013 earnings guidance of $1.85 to $2 per share.
Now into operational excellence on slide 6 we delivered excellent operating performance in first quarter of 2013.
Our delivery system and generating facilities operated well with the average duration and frequency of outages in the top quartile and generation plant availability factors exceeding our goals.
Our overall customer satisfaction also remains very strong.
PGE ranks in the top quartile for residential customer satisfaction and the top decile for business customer satisfaction in Market Strategy's international most recently available surveys.
We also rank second nationally for large key customer satisfaction in the TQS Incorporated annual survey.
As you know we’ve been implementing new technology systems in several areas of company including transmission and distribution human resources and finance and accounting to help improve processes and reduce operating cost which are critical to our efforts to keep customer prices as low as possible in the face of increases in regulatory and inflationary cost.
Now let’s move onto slide 7 for the economic outlook in our operating area.
Oregon’s economy continues to improve.
We’ve seen a turnaround in the residential housing market as well as steady employment growth in high tech manufacturing business services and leisure and hospitality.
Oregon's unemployment has dropped to 8.2% compared with 80.3% at the end of last quarter and 8.8% a year ago.
The unemployment rate in our core operating area is 7.3% down from 7.4% at the end of the last quarter and 7.5% last year.
The state continues to be ranked second in the nation for in-migration which helped PGE continue to add customers.
While we’re seeing positive economic indicators our energy deliveries in the first quarter did not reflect this improvement.
Adjusting for weather and the 2012 leap day deliveries are about flat quarter-over-quarter with declines in the residential and commercial loads offset by increases in the industrial loads.
Jim will address this in more detail later in the call.
Now please refer to slide 8 and 9 for an update on our progress executing our integrated resource action plan.
We are nearing the completion of the RFP processes and I will cover where we are with the four resources we are seeking.
First capacity we will break ground on Port Westward 2 our new 220 megawatt natural gas plant this month.
The plant is expected to cost between $300 million and $310 million excluding the allowance of funds used during construction and will create up to 200 construction jobs in the area.
The in-service date is currently slated for the first quarter of 2015.
Second seasonal peaking capacity.
These resources will be power purchase agreements and we are in negotiations with the bidders.
Finally the energy and renewable resources; negotiations are underway to secure both of these resources from the respective final short list which includes both purchase power agreements and PGE ownership options.
We expect to announce the outcome mid-year.
The RFP processes have been thorough and we are pleased that the independent evaluator representing the Oregon Public Utility Commission confirmed that the RFPs were conducted in a fair unbiased and transparent manner.
Let’s turn to slide 10 for an update on Cascade Crossing.
PGE signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Bonneville Power Administration in January to explore a collaborative regional solution that could provide up to 2 600 megawatts of transmission capacity.
The full project scope as described in the MOU would cost at least $800 million.
The project is still preliminary and subject to reaching an agreement with BPA.
The current negotiations involve complex issues and include consideration of various transmission options.
The expected scope and timing as well as the estimated cost will become clear by the end of 2013.
Now onto slide 11.
As we discussed last quarter PGE filed a general rate case in February with the 2014 test year.
Our filing supports an average overall price increase of about 6% starting on January 1 2014 and includes an ROE of 10% and a capital structure of 50% debt and 50% equity.
We are currently in the discovery phase and the schedule anticipates settlement conferences with the OPUC staff and other interveners at the end of this month.
Following that OPUC staff and interveners will file their first run of testimony by mid-June.
We expect to complete the 10 month regulatory process in mid-December with a final order from the commission at that time.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Jim Lobdell our Chief Financial Officer who will discuss our financial and operating results for the first quarter and review our expectations for 2013.
Thank you Jim.
Turning to page 12 net income for the first quarter of 2013 was $49 million or $0.65 per share equivalent to earnings in the first quarter of 2012.
Net income was positively impacted by reduced power costs lower storm restoration costs and decreased interest expense.
However these items were offset by lower retail energy deliveries and higher income taxes.
Moving to page 13 total revenues for the quarter were $473 million down 6 million for the same period last year driven by a decrease in price and volume of retail energy deliveries.
Average retail prices decreased 3% quarter-over-quarter based on a price decrease on January 1st of this year to reflect lower expected power costs.
Although retail deliveries decreased approximately 1% quarter-over-quarter the revenue impact was partially offset by the de-coupling mechanism under which we recorded a collection from customers of $4 million in the first quarter of this year.
As Jim mentioned energy deliveries adjusted for weather and a leap day in 2012 were flat quarter-over-quarter.
During the first quarter of this year we have seen lower than expected residential and commercial deliveries.
While the high-tech industry continues to grow we experienced decline in the solar industry the partial closure of a paper mill and reduced usage in the government sector.
Based on deliveries this quarter we are guiding to the lower-end of our initial load growth forecast of 0.5% to 1% over 2012 levels.
As we move through the second quarter and complete our regular load forecast updates we will provide more information on our expectations going forward.
For the quarter purchase power and fuel expenses decreased $3 million to $192 million with a 2% decrease in the average variable power cost.
Hydro generation from PGE owned and mid-Columbia hydro resources decreased 12% this quarter compared to above average conditions a year ago.
Generation at our Biglow Canyon Wind Farm was about the same quarter-over-quarter representing of 5% of PGE’s retail load requirement in both periods.
Thermal generation increased quarter-over-quarter accounting for 47% of PGE’s retail load requirement.
Overall PGE’s net variable power costs were $1 million below the annual power cost update tariff baseline for the first quarter of this year compared with $5 million below the baseline a year ago.
Moving on to slide 14; production distribution and administrative cost totaled a $105 million this quarter a slight decrease from the first quarter of 2012.
While pension expense increased we saw a lower delivery system expense as a result of no major storms in the first quarter of this year.
Depreciation and amortization for the quarter was $62 million equivalent to the first quarter a year ago.
Just as we did last year we will continue to record deferrals for capital projects from 2011 and 2012 as a reduction to depreciation.
While there was no increase quarter-over-quarter we expect approximately $3 million of incremental deferral throughout 2013 for a total depreciation and amortization reduction of about $18 million.
Interest expense decreased quarter-over-quarter due to $100 million first mortgage bonds that matured in 2012.
Offsetting these savings was a $2 million increase in income taxes quarter-over-quarter as our effective tax rate rose from 23.4% to 26.2%.
This increase is largely due to lower forecasted wind generation in 2013 resulting in a reduction and expected production tax credits but was partially offset by an increase in the PTC rate.
Now on to slide 15.
We continue to maintain a solid financial position including investment grade credit ratings and strong liquidity.
As of March 31 2013; we had $681 million in cash and available credit and an equity percentage of 51.8%.
On April 1 we repaid $50 million of maturing first mortgage bonds with cash bringing our equity ratio to 52.6.
We expect to issue $50 to a $100 million of long term first mortgage bonds during the second quarter to meet our cash needs.
In addition we still plan to fund the construction of the Port Westward 2 unit with cash from operations and debt insurances.
Depending on the outcome of the energy renewable RFPs that Jim Piro just covered we may access the capital markets in the near term for equity and or additional debt.
As Jim also noted we're affirming our 2013 guidance of a $1.85 to $2 per share.
As you can see on slide 16 this range is based on load growth towards the lower end of our initial range of one half of 1% over weather adjusted 2012 levels slightly below normal hydro conditions normal plant operations and wind generation based on an updated forecast that more closely reflects historical performance a full year O&amp;M expense between $440 million and $460 million including approximately $10 million of increased pension expense year-over-year; depreciation expense between $240 million and $250 million including a minor increment DNA reduction from the capital deferral projects; capital expenditures between $505 million and $525 million which does not include any potential expenditures for resources related to the energy and renewable RFPs we've had capital expenditures of a $108 million so far in 2013 and finally approximately $5 million to $6 million in non-cash AFUDC for Port Westward 2.
Jim back to you.
Thanks.
Our operating and financial performance for 2013 is on track and we're looking forward to continued progress on our strategic initiatives in 2013 including building Port Westward 2 selecting energy and renewable resources and completing the 2014 general rate case.
And now operator we're ready for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
And we will take the first question of the day from Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs please go ahead.
On O&amp;M you did a terrific job in the quarter there the $105 million came in well below the $110 million to $115 million run rate that you set out on a quarterly basis at the beginning of the year.
Was there anything unusual to take into consideration and is it fair to assume that you're tracking towards the bottom end of the $440 million to $460 million range that you laid out in that same guidance?  I would say that what we're seeing Neil is just more of a timing difference at this particular point.
We are gaining savings through a lot of the efforts that Jim Piro had mentioned earlier and then as we pointed out there's little bit of improvement because of no major storms but we seem to be online for our projections for the range that we had given in guidance at this point.
And then on hydro conditions as you said are slightly below normal but even in years where you’ve had slightly negative hydro you’ve still been able to breakeven on the PKM through other components of the PKM.
Do you still think that’s the case or whether the PKM impact be negative in 2013 as you look at it? No I think that we are still be where we need to be.
There is a lot of things lot of moving parts going on now in the whole subpart of the marketplace this year including a hydro dam in California is down significantly.
So but we could see some improvements in the value of the holdings that we have.
And then can you comment on the potential for you to ultimately acquire the assets that you didn’t win in the RFPs? We can't tell you.
We are in the negotiations right now and when we reach the end of the negotiations we will let you know and as we mentioned it could be either purchase power agreement or an ownership option for the company.
So hopefully we’ll have more to report in the next few months.
And the next question comes from Sarah Akers with Wells Fargo.
As a follow up to Neil’s last question I know the RFP conversations are confidential but can you tell us if it’s still a matter of identifying that winning bid or is it safe to say that the top has been identified and you are just negotiating the final contract details? The way the process works as we get the short list and we start with the one on the top of the list based on our business judgment and then we start the negotiations and if we can reach the finish line with those negotiations within the context of the bid then that’s what where we will execute.
If we can’t then we go to the next one on the list.
So we're in negotiations right now.
We can’t tell you whether we're still at the top or at the bottom or where we are but that’s the process we go through.
Got it and then on sales you mentioned that sales growth is not necessarily reflecting the improvements that you are seeing in the economy.
Do you think there is just a natural lag time there or is it more of a structural issue with conservation an efficiency? When we look at we are looking at a really harder decision it’s a whole bunch of things going in the marketplace the economic is still relatively fragile people are being relatively conservative.
I think we will start seeing a pickup later this year.
That’s why we're watching it pretty carefully.
People have instituted efficiency measures they try to be more efficient in their operations all those things kind of impact usage.
So it is with conservation.
So it’s just a whole host of things that add to that and as businesses get stronger we would expect to see a recovery in those sectors but there have been some changes.
As Jim mentioned one of the paper customers shut down one of their lines of operations.
There are some structural changes also that are going on in the marketplace.
And then will you be able to update the rate case to reflect the downward lever wise sales expectations? Can you capture that in the test here? As we go through the process in the rate case we have various options every time to what to update the rate case forecast.
I think September is the time.
We do it in June and I think we also do it September.
So it’s a couple or three times we updated our load forecast capital related state economic data and the latest trends in what we’re seeing in the loads themselves.
And just to recall on the residential side that sector is de-coupled and a small portion of our commercial sector is de-coupled for specific energy efficiency measures and so if we get a wrong under residential side either way that tends to go back to de-coupling and that change in use per customer can be due to a variety things including efficiency.
And we'll now go to Brian Russo with Ladenburg Thalmann.
In the past you guys have alluded to like 100 basis points of lag for just unrecovered cost and I’m just wondering can you give us an absolute dollar value for that because I would assume as your rate base grows the basis point lag will decline.
That's a great question Brian.
You’re right in that it does change as rate base grows.
Right now we’ve about a $3 billion rate basis.
As we add more to rate base then the fixed amount of disallowances will be a smaller percentage overall and the major area of disallowances I think like corporate contribution image advertising and some of the incentives for officers.
So those are the typical numbers.
If you go back to our previous rate cases and look at that it’s in the $13 million range in terms of what is allowed in the regulatory filings for cost recovery and that could be little bit more or less but the major items are the ones I discussed and so you are correct as rate base grows then that becomes a smaller percentage of the ROE and would cause less of a drag on ROE as we go forward.
Okay.
And I guess on that topic your rate base really isn’t growing with the 2014 test year.
So the narrowing of that lag would probably occur in '15 after adding the Port Westward 2 plans to base rates correct? Right and that will be somewhere in the $300 million range which will add a rate base in 2015 when that plan goes into service… And then correct me if I’m wrong but I think in the past you also had unrecovered interest costs related to some debt that falls outside of your regulatory debt of roughly $12 million.
Is that captured in the lag on the corporate cost you’ve just talked about or is that in addition or is that taken care of already? Not that just the precision in the capital structure I think the difference in the overall which allowed in the regulatory fillings including CUF and so some of that is timing issues and some of it just the different between the regulatory weighted cost of capital and our actual weighted cost of capital.
So does that create lag in addition to that historical 100 bips of lag? It can’t in some cases and some other cases it may not.
So I think it’s hard to really quantify that precisely.
And we’ll now go to Lauren Duke with Deutsche Bank.
I was hoping I could get you guys to give us an update on your thoughts for timing of reaching a definitive agreement with the BPA on Cascade Crossing just when we might be able to have a better sense of the timing as the capital spend associated with that? At this time point the best we can tell is probably by the end of this year we will have better clarity on what this project going to look like.
We’ve gone through various innovations with BPA on trying to look at this as a single utility project.
As you recall we started with we will the site from the Boardman are down to Salem.
That project was kind of independent of Bonneville and provided us the 2 600 megawatt of capacity we thought we needed.
The regional economic continues to change and so as we’ve been working with Bonneville on a single utility solution many factors have come into play around how we would integrate and get 2 600 megawatts of capacity.
So we’re doing a lot of transmission studies right now in corporation with BPA to figure out what are the reinforcements where the capital add that need to be made.
The MOU contemplated a line that went from Coyote Springs to a new substation called Pine Grove at which point it would interconnect with BPA.
So we’re now trying to work through all that with the transmission planters and latest forecast of new generation in the region and trying to figure out what is the right way to plan this on a single utility basis.
So I will tell you we’re doing a lot of transmission studies and we’re in detailed discussions with BPA in how to bring this all together to create the best benefits for both BPA and our customers and do this in a single utility sense.
So our hope is by the end of this year we should have real clarity on what this project will look like but it’s still all subject to our negotiations with BPA and reaching and agreeing with them on the right kind of split in allocation of resources.
Okay and I guess the kind of updated thoughts on your sales forecast outlook would also potentially impact this as well?  In some affect.
I think this is a small blip in the curve.
I still see as they are having continued economic growth we are going to need to continue to add resources and the line will provide long-term reliability.
Transmission takes a long time to build and you have to look it over 20 to 30 year time horizon.
Our general view is we will continue to see demand growth throughout the region and transmission in a necessary component to meet that growing demand and our current view it's better to do it now than wait for the very last minute just because the complexity of building transmission and so that is part of the other conversation with Bonneville is the time horizon which we would need to add strategic assets to increase the capability of the transmission system.
So I will tell you we have got a lot of focus on it.
I really appreciate what Bonneville is doing in terms of working with us on the single utility.
It’s got a lot of traction in terms of other support and the environmentalist appreciate that we are trying to think about this holistically.
So that is kind of where we are.
Okay and then secondly can you just quickly quantify the impact of weather versus normal on an EPS basis for the quarter?  Jim you want to cover that one.
Yes on a quarter-over-quarter we had about a $0.01 impact associated with that Lauren.
Pretty close to normal.
Yes.
This year was pretty close to normal? Yes.
And we will now go to Maury May with Wellington Shields.
A question for the CFO Jim.
Just again on your comments on the working of the PCAM for the rest of the year did I hear you say that a slightly below average hydro year will lead to a slightly negative PCAM?  No no it won't lead to a negative PCAM.
We are down bit in our average variable power cost.
We hedge pretty much everything that we have got going into the year.
Our loads are down but at the same time I think that the power markets are going to be picking up here as we move further into the year.
The hydro in California as I mentioned earlier is down significantly.
So I think that's going to have an impact on the Pacific Northwest but I think overall we will just be slightly lower than the baseline by about $1 million at this point.
So pretty much in line.
Okay so pretty much in line but really the first quarter is where you think you will stand by the end of the year?  Maury it is really too hard to project that at this point.
A lot of things can change; the operation of our plan GAAP prices in the region California in demand just tons of factors.
So to tell you that's going to be $1 million by the end of the year it’s just too early to make that projection.
Okay but you are looking at it being pretty close to in balance I guess.
We are looking right now but as Jim pointed out there is a lot that can change between now and the end of the year.
Okay.
Second of all; can you review once again the equity levels that you discussed currently and then the equity levels versus the plan debt and equity issuance? Yes I think Jim discussed that in his remarks but I think we are at about 52.6%.
Yes right now we repaid the $50 million of maturing first mortgage bonds and that brings us to 52.6 as Jim pointed out.
Okay and that's at the end of March or now? That is April 1st.
That's pretty much where we are right now.
And then you mentioned a bond offering coming.
Can you discus that again? Yes the second quarter we are looking at the potential going out anywhere from $50 to $100 million of first mortgage bonds just trying to maintain the liquidity of the company; trying to make sure that we are not dipping into any additional short term debt at this particular point in time given now all the activities going to be going on with Port Westward 2.
So just kind of positioning ourselves in that perspective.
And then the big question; the equity question.
Are you still looking at 2014 for cast and equity issuance? We don't know what we are going to be doing at this particular point in time because we don't know what the outcome will be of the renewable and energy RFPs are.
They are power purchase agreements.
We will take a very close look at it to see what the impact of our power purchase agreements are on the capital structure of the company.
If it turns out there are ownership opportunities then obviously we'll be looking very closely at the debt and equity markets.
Okay and final question really has to do with those RFPs the base load and the renewable.
A couple of months ago you were saying that you thought it would be late June and early July that you would get the results of both of them and I noticed in the slide deck also you're talking mid-year.
So are you really still talking late June early July for both of those RFPs? Yes we're still looking at it in the second quarter.
I think that's our plan right now.
Negotiations are going well and we should be able to announce the winning bidders in that timeframe.
So it will be probably in June probably in late June for both of them.
In the second quarter.
(Operator instructions).
And we'll now go to Paul Risdon with KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Can you just give order of magnitude of megawatt hour annual basis delta between the new wind normal versus the old wind normal or capacity factor? I still need to look into the rate case but in the rate case what we did is we looked at as a five year rolling average and that's what we've done with our thermal plants in terms of availability factor and for its value.
So in the rate case we did project based on a five rolling average what the win would be.
We've tried to use that for the forecast compared to what the original design was which was a certain number.
Jim do you have the exact numbers on what that would look like in terms of difference in megawatts? No I don’t I was just thinking another way to look at it is a wind form is 450 megawatts.
These are approximate numbers around 30% a little bit north of that originally in our first profile and now we're down to approximately 25% as far as the capacity factor expectation for the wind farm.
We can get you the exact number.
Bill can get that for you because in the rate case we did show the five year rolling average for wind generation based on actual results and that's what we're using for our forecast going forward and then we'll just strew that up over time similar to what we've done with Hydro to determine normal.
Prior to that we were using a kind of theoretical number that was based on studies for that site.
Now those studies may still be valid but because of just the timing issue we're going to a five year rolling average and so Bill can get you those numbers offline but they're in the rate case.
So they can be discussed.
And then on the RFP assuming it's with PPA did I hear you just in response with Maury's question suggest that maybe the impeded debt would drive an equity lease.
Something we're really concerned about just given the new accounting standards and how purchase power agreement would show up on the balance sheet and affect our ratio.
So generally S&amp;P takes a view that purchase power creates a debt like obligation to a company and therefore they do an impeded debt to look at our overall ratios and that's a concern to us and with the new accounting standards potentially coming forward we might actually have to put the obligation on the balance sheet which we then have to balance.
So we believe that if we entered into purchase power agreement we might have to increase our equity ratio to offset that obligation and we're looking at it pretty closely.
Our goal is to maintain investment grade credit ratings and anything that would put downward pressure on that would be a concern in terms of raising our cost and raising the cost to customers.
So we are factoring that in and we'll have to make some decisions around that based on the obligation and the nature of the negotiations and the contractual arrangement.
So you mean you would do an equity raise either way either outcome.
We're not going to say when we might add it but we will clearly evaluate it and include it in our decision making and look at that if it were a purchase power agreement what that obligation would look like.
And are both the energy and renewable could those go either way PPA or cellphone.
At this point we'd say either way it could go and we're not tipping our hand if you will which way it will go.
So there's four potential outcomes two PPAs two cellphone and then flip one of each.
Yes it could be any combination of those potentially.
And the next question is from David Paz with Wolfe Research.
Just a few follow up questions.
In your rate case I think you mentioned you'll be filing updates I think it was the context of sales forecasts will you also be updating any impact on bonus depreciation in 2013.
We made a projection in the rate case for tax depreciation.
As I recall we have not exercised bonus depreciation just because we don't have the capacity to utilize it.
So we continue to evaluate that going forward to see if it still makes sense do or do not do it.
So we would likely not update it but if there was a decision to do something it was definitely the rate case it would probably come through the discovery process but right now I think our plan is not to move forward and exercise bonus depreciation just because we don’t have the tax capacity.
And so the last time you exercised bonus D&amp;A was in 2011? Yes that was about right.
We did 50% in 2013.
Yes it was 2010.
And the reason for that as we were generating so many production tax credits is that we don’t have the tax capacity to utilize the bonus depreciation.
So I guess going to be normal tax.
Also I noticed that you updated your ongoing CapEx I think you raised ’13 projection then slightly and then slightly lower ’14 and ’17.
Just curious are those changes just due to timing or changes and assumed escalation rates what are driving those slight tweaks? Mostly just regulatory updates that’s going on but I will get back to you.
No problem and then just on what do you discussed earlier on the higher equity layer or potential higher equity layer under PPA scenario for the base load and renewable RFPs.
Would you request a higher authorized equity layer? Would you need to speak approval from OPUC and could that be done in the current rate case? So the way you would do it is the regulators typically want to see real equity on the balance sheet as opposed to theoretical cap structure.
If we were to enter into a purchase power agreement we would have to look at the effective add on the balance sheet and how it will work and if we believe that there was a requirement for extra equity to offset that obligation we'd have to have a plan to issue it and then we would reflect that in a future rate case.
That probably it wouldn’t hit us in the 2014 rate case because likely the purchase power agreement if they were to go that way wouldn’t be hitting our balance sheet probably to later beyond that period.
So it might be subject to 2015 rate case potentially but it would be something that we have demonstrate the prudency of why we would need that especially as it would impact our bond ratings and our cost of capital.
So in interim you would still target 50/50? Well at this point we are targeting 50/50 at least for the 2014 rate case.
2015 is whole different game depending on what the outcome of the RFP’s would be.
(Operator Instructions).
And we will now take a question from Lauren Duke with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Follow up on the equity ratio comments.
Given that you’re already over equitized right now and if you didn’t win more RFPs you might continue down that path is it possible that you could ask for an equity ratio increase without actually having to issue market equity? That's a possibility.
I don’t know if you’d be able to build your equity balance enough to offset a purchase power obligation but again it depends on the nature of the PPA obligation and contractual arrangement and then in discussion with the rating agencies how they would view that as well as the accounting treatment on our balance sheet.
So there's a whole bunch of things that get factored in there.
I doubt if you could build it over time just by retaining earnings.
That would obviously factor into the analysis that as you grew your equity and really didn’t have any need to issue debt.
And we’ll now go to Andy Levi with Avon Capital.
Just of couple of things I guess to clear up.
So just back on the equity and the PPA so if it ended up being PPAs the equity wouldn’t assuming you would have to issue equity that wouldn’t be issued until the PPAs came online is that kind of the way to think about it? Well I think you have to look at the obligation if when you are entering into the obligation and when the writ agencies would include that.
So it usually starts when they start delivering if you will and you have the obligation to pay.
Okay.
So I guess the goal would be kind of get that equity ratio higher in conjunction with an equity raise/PPA.
Is that kind of the way to look at it? That’s correct.
Again we will work closely with the rating agencies so that we'd help them understand what that effect is on our ratios and ensure that we maintain credit worthiness.
I’m trying to recall correctly as you look at PPA you’re not looking at the full value of PPA but you’re looking at a subset of that.
Right now I just want to clear that up.
That’s obviously important detail.
The second thing is what's always happy to hear was that as your rate base grows and in particular I guess if the renewable/base loads ends up being a building purchase type thing or someone else builds your purchase that regulatory lag comes down over time.
So I think that’s probably fairly significant and I guess something new to investors.
Because I don’t remember you guys talking about that? No I think it’s just that basic math of the equation.
You have certain dollars that you don’t necessarily get recovery on and those dollars just become a smaller percentage as your rate base grows.
So I think that’s just math and if you look at other utilities that have much larger rate base they probably have about the same amount of dollar dis-allowances but with a larger rate base it's just a smaller percentage for them.
So if you look at our rate base for customer we tend to be at the lower end of the range for utilities and that’s because we are basically short on generation.
As we add more generation get ourselves more in line with where others are in terms of reserve margins et cetera then that unrecovered cost becomes a smaller percentage.
I think that’s significant because I think most sales side analysts really just take your rate base and assume 100 basis point lag probably an estimate.
Better look at the dollar amount and watch that change overtime as rate base can grow.
I think that’s all the questions we have and we appreciate your interest in Portland General Electric and invite you to joining us when we report our second quarter 2013 results in August.
Thanks a lot and have a great day.
And thank you very much.
That does conclude our conference for today.
I’d like to thank everyone for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone.
And welcome to Portland General Electric Company's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today is Friday August 2 2013.
This call is being recorded and as such all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) For opening remarks I would like to turn the conference over to Portland Electric's Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Bill Valach.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Beth and that's Portland General Electric and we're pleased that you're able to join us this morning.
Before we begin our discussion this morning I would like to remind you that we have prepared a PowerPoint presentation to supplement our discussion today and we'll be referencing slides as we go through the call.
For those of you joining the call over the phone these slides are available at our website at investors.portlandgeneral.com.
Referring to slide 2 I'd also like to make our customary statements regarding Portland General Electric's written and oral disclosures and commentary that there will be statements in this call that are not based on historical facts and as such constitute forward-looking statements under current laws.
These statements are subject to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made today.
And for description of some of the factors that may occur that could cause such differences the company requests that you read our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Qs.
Portland General Electric's second quarter earnings were released before the market opened today and the release is available on our website at portlandgeneral.com.
The company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise and these Safe Harbor statements should be incorporated as part of any transcript on this call.
As shown on slide three leading our discussion today are Jim Piro President and CEO and Jim Lobdell Senior Vice President of Finance CFO and Treasurer.
Jim Piro will begin today's presentation by providing a review of our performance in the second quarter and an update on our strategic initiatives.
Then Jim Lobdell will provide more detail around the quarterly results and our expectations for the full-year 2013.
Following these prepared remarks we will open the lines up for your questions and it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Jim Piro.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Welcome to Portland General Electric's second quarter 2013 earnings call.
As slide four shows on today's call I'll provide an update on our strategic initiatives summarize the progress we've made on the 2014 general rate case give you an update on our operations and discuss the economy and customer satisfaction in our service territory.
Then Jim Lobdell will give a financial update discussing the quarter's results and our outlook for the remainder of 2013.
As you can see on slide five we recorded a net loss of $22 million or $0.29 per diluted share.
This compares with net income of $26 million or $0.34 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2012 the decrease in earnings was primarily driven by the Cascade Crossing transmission project expense and the customer billing refund.
In addition operation and maintenance expense increased quarter-over-quarter as we expected and is in line with our full year forecast of $440 million to $460 million for 2013.
Excluding these factors earnings this quarter would have been comparable to earnings in the second quarter of 2012.
So let's start with an update on our three generation projects.
First the capacity resource on slide six we broke ground in May on Port Westward 2 our new 220 megawatt natural gas plant.
This plant is expected to cost approximately $300 million excluding AFDC and is scheduled to be operational in the first quarter of 2015.
We expect to file our general rate case in early 2014 with a 2015 test year to recover the costs which by itself may result in a customer price increase between 3% and 4%.
We also entered into two power purchase agreements with Iberdrola for seasonal peaking resources to meet needs identified in our IRP action plans.
The first agreement provides 100 megawatts of summer capacity and the second provides 100 megawatts of winter capacity.
Now to our baseload resource on slide seven we're moving forward with Carty Generation Station a 440 megawatt natural gas plant next to our Boardman Coal plant.
We expect the project to come online in mid 2016 and cost approximately $450 million excluding AFDC to bring this resource in the customer prices we anticipate filing general rate case in 2015 or 2016 to recover the cost which by itself may result in a customer price increase of between 6% and 7%.
Lastly turn to slide 8 for an update on a renewable resource I'm very pleased to announce that yesterday we closed the asset purchase agreement with Puget Sound Energy for the right to develop phase II of the Lower Snake River wind farm in south east Washington.
With this agreement finalized we are renaming the project Tucannon River Wind Farm after the Tucannon River which runs north of the project.
RES will construct the 267 megawatt wind farm installing 116 Siemens Turbines on about 20 000 acres.
Overall we expect Tucannon River to cost approximately $500 million excluding AFDC and come online in the first half of 2015.
We may use either a general rate case or the renewal energy adjustment clause mechanism to recover the cost which by itself may result to the customer price increased at between 4% and 5%.
We are working hard to deliver operational efficiencies throughout the company and investigating other strategies to offset this customer price changes.
Slide 9 provides a summary of the company's five year capital expenditure forecast including expected spend patterns for the three new generation projects.
Based on these we estimate 2017 average rate base to be about $4.5 billion these new projects are the lease cost lowest risk resources and will be used to meet our customers' long term energy needs with reliable cost effective efficiently generated power.
We look forward to completing this project on time and on budget.
Moving to slide 10 we filed the General Rate Case in February with a 2014 test year and have now reached settlement with the OPUC staff and interveners on all items except pension expense.
PGE and the parties have stipulated to a 9.75% ROE a capital structure of 50% debt and 50% equity and an average rate base of $3.1 billion.
In addition our decoupling mechanism has been extended with a few minor modifications for additional 3 years through 2016.
Over the next several months we will continue to update power cost debt cost and our retail load forecast for the 2014 test year.
Our most recent updates for these items as filed on July 17 led to an additional $19 million of revenue requirement for an estimated total increase of approximately $79 million.
We expect a final order from the commission to be issued in mid December resulting in an average overall price increase of approximately 5% effective January 1 2014.
Now on to operational update on slide 11.
As we disclosed on July 15 the Boardman and Colstrip coal plants have experienced recent outages.
Boardman of which we own 65% tripped offline on July 1 due to a temperature shock in the cold reheat pipe.
We have repaired the line and rebuilt the pipe support structure enabling the plant to come back online earlier this week.
We estimate our replacement power cost will total $3 million to $4 million.
Colstrip Unit 4 which we own 20% but do not operate also tripped offline on July 1.
A generator failure caused damage to the stator and the rotor and we are expecting the units to be offline for the remainder of the year.
We estimate our replacement power costs will be $7 million to $8 million to the rest of 2013.
Engineering estimates indicate outage repair costs could total approximately $10 million for Boardman and between $30 million and $40 million for Colstrip Unit 4.
Growth plans have insurance coverage and providers have been notified of potential claims.
At a minimum we will incur our ownership share of the $2.5 million insurance deductible at each plant.
We expect that the majority of the repair cost not covered by insurance will be capitalized.
Now let's move on to slide 12 for an update on the economy and our customers.
Oregon's economy continues to show positive signs.
The residential housing market has been improving since last year and we continue to see growth in Oregon's building permits.
In addition we've seen strong employment growth in construction business services and leisure and hospitality sectors so far this year.
Oregon's unemployment rate has dropped to 7.9% in June compared with 8.2% at the end of the last quarter and 8.8% a year ago.
The unemployment rate in our core operating area of 6.8% in June down from 7.2% at the end of the last quarter.
The state continues to demonstrate strong immigration and PGE continues to add new customers each quarter.
In addition weather adjusted energy deliveries grew this quarter which Jim will discuss later.
Our overall customer satisfaction continues to be very strong.
PGE ranks in the top [debt] file for both residential and general business satisfaction and market strategies international's most recent surveys.
We also ranked second nationally for a large key satisfaction in TQS's Research Incorporated annual survey.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Jim Lobdell who will discuss our financial results for the second quarter and review our expectations for the rest of 2013.
Turning to slide 13 the second quarter of 2013 recorded a net loss of $22 million or $0.29 per share compared to net income of $26 million or $0.34 per share for the second quarter a year ago.
This decrease was driven by a $52 million expense related to the suspension of the Cascade Crossing Transmission project and $9 million customer refund and a $12 million increased operating and maintenance expense related to our generation and distribution system.
Excluding the impact of these factors earnings this quarter would have been comparable to the earnings of the second quarter of 2012.
Moving to slide 14 total revenues for the quarter were $403 million down $10 million from the same period last year primarily due to a $9 million refund to an industrial customer who is incorrectly build for several periods.
Energy deliveries adjusted for weather were up 2% quarter-over-quarter.
We've seen notable increases in residential and commercial deliveries and industrial deliveries continue to grow as well.
While the second quarter growth was better than the first quarter of this year our year-to-date energy deliveries adjusted for the lease day are approximately flat compared to the first six months of last year.
As a result we are expecting relatively flat energy deliveries for the full year compared with 2012 weather adjusted levels.
Purchase power and fuel expense were flat quarter-over-quarter.
Hydro generation from PGE is owned and mid-Columbia hydro resources decreased 12% this quarter compared to above average conditions a year ago.
Thermal generation increased quarter-over-quarter; accounting for 23% of PGE's retail load requirement and generation at our Biglow Canyon Wind Farm was comparable quarter-over-quarter.
Power cost in the second quarter were higher than forecast in 2013 annual power cost update tariff that were offset by an increase total sales.
As a result net variable power cost of $13 million below the [ATE] baseline for the second quarter compared to $5 million below the baseline from the second quarter of 2012.
For the full year including the effects of replacement power cost for the coal plant outages we expected net variable power cost to be within the PCAM.
Moving to slide 15 production distribution and administrative cost totaled a $119 million this quarter $12 million higher than the second quarter of 2012.
As expected pension expense increased by $2 million and maintenance expense for our generation and distribution systems increased by about $10 million.
O&amp;M expense can vary from quarter-to-quarter due to seasonal factors but it's important to note that we are on track for our full year on O&amp;M forecast of $440 million to $460 million.
Interest expense decreased $2 million quarter-over-quarter due to the maturity of two tranches of first mortgage bonds that were redeemed to good cash $100 in October of 2012 and $50 million in April 2013.
Income taxes decreased $20 million quarter-over-quarter due to the lower pretax income resulting primarily from the suspension of Cascade Crossing Project.
Now onto slide 16 we continue to maintain a solid balance sheet including investment grade credit ratings and strong liquidity.
As of June 30 2013; we had $787 million in cash and available credit and an equity percentage of 50.4%.
In June we successfully executed equity on debt financing.
We completed the public offering at 12.7 million shares of common stock at an operating price of $29.50 per share using a four sale transactions 1.7 million shares were issued in June and the remaining shares are expected to be issued over the next two years.
We also closed the debt offering in the private placement market for $225 million of first mortgage bonds at 4.47% separated into two tranches a $150 million was issued in June and $75 million will be issued by the end of August.
The remainder of the year we expect to issue equity using the forward structure that we currently have outstanding and additional debt for a combined total of a $175 million to 225 million.
I'm also pleased to report that on June 28 Moody's upgraded our long-term credit ratings moving our issuer rating from BAA2 to BAA1 and our first mortgage bonds from A3 to A2.
This improvement reflects the constructive regulatory environment and a stable financial profile with adequate liquidity.
Now let's discuss our outlook for the remainder of 2013.
As shown on slide 17 as you recall we revised our guidance on June 3.
We are now reducing our 2013 guidance by an additional $0.10 to a $1.25 to $1.40 due to the $10 million to $12 million of replacement power costs for the outages as a Boardman and Colstrip plants.
And slide 18 displays our revised full year guidance include the following assumptions.
Energy deliveries comparable to weather adjusted 2012 levels O&amp;M expense between $450 million to $460 million D&amp;A expense between $240 million and $250 million and capital expenditures between $710 million and 730 million.
Now back to you Jim.
Thank you.
Although we had several factors that impacted our operating and financial performance this year we're looking forward to entering a significant phase of growth with a construction of three new generating plants.
We are moving forward with our IRP action plan to bring these resources online on time and on budget to meet our customers' long-term energy needs.
Now operator we're ready for the questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question today will come from Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
Congratulations on the rate case results.
Quick question there.
Is the pension item still outstanding as that was an item that was still to be determined in the settlement or has that been resolved in the (inaudible)? Neil it's still outstanding it's the only item that's outstanding still because there's multiple utilities involved in at this pension discussion.
There is a separate docket associated with it.
So we are going to be moving through that here shortly.
Yeah we also filed rebuttal testimony in the case on that issue.
We expect staff testimony next week I think it is.
So that will help us understand staff positions who may either just resolve this within the General Rate Case or as Jim talked about we have this generic docket just to stay on top quickly that proceeds through the year.
And just to confirm you have no expectation to change your CapEx schedule in light of some of the challenges by Troutdale on the RFP.
And can you just remind us where we stand with that docket and that challenge? So no we are moving forward with our projects.
We feel like we've run a very good process and we had the independent valuator to review the process.
So PC has got a potential for a declaratory ruling before the commission.
They were supposed to have raised that on August 6 but it's been rescheduled to September 19 special meeting.
So the OPUC will address that issue in mid-September and we will see where they go with it but again we're moving forward with the project.
As you know our benchmark did not win that bid.
It was a third-party bid on our site and we feel like it's a good project for our customers that provide long-term value.
And last question.
Just could you walk us through the right inventory strategy in terms of getting each of these assets into rates when you expect to file when you expect to ultimately get each of the assets integrated? So let's take one at a time.
I talked a little bit about it in my script but just to remind you.
The Picker will come on probably either in the ‘14 or early 2015 we just have to see how construction goes.
Our plan right now is to file 2014 Generate Rate file our rate case to the 2015 test year in early 2014 with that included in the overall revenue requirements and in rate base with prices to be effective when that resource goes in to service.
So that's the first one.
Exact timing of that will depend on when prices change and we're still working on our strategies around that.
The baseload resource Carty generating station we again expected to go into service in mid-2016.
We will either file a 2016 General Rate Case or a 2017 General Rate Case or even potentially a split year test year to recover the cost of that resource again through a General Rate Case as the way we will do that.
And the third one is the renewable resource.
We think that will come online in the first half of 2015.
We haven't really decided how we're going to recover the costs.
We either use the combination of the renewable adjustment clause and/or General Rate Case to recover the cost of that resource like we use the renewable adjustment clause for the period time when the project comes into service and then track and either through renewable adjustment clause or a General Rate Case in this subsequent year.
So I think we've got a good strategy.
The price increases are fairly minimal and we are looking at strategies to offset that cost and trying to capture operational efficiencies again to offset the cost of these projects.
Moving on to our next question we will go to Mike Bates with D.A.
Davidson.
As I look at slide nine just examining your CapEx forecast I am wondering how from are you on the timing from year-to-year with these projects is there have you built in room for any potential slippage in construction timelines or what not? These are our best estimates of the construction schedule that we guide in place.
It's fairly predictable at this point.
We have turbine orders in.
We've got projects plans in place.
The contractors are moving.
We feel pretty good about this spend.
So obviously if there is something that's out of our control that happens related to weather or some type of force majeure things could change but right now these are our best estimates of the capital spend.
And given the nature of these projects we feel pretty good about these numbers.
Sure.
And as we think about 2014 obviously by far the peak year in this CapEx budget can you give us any picture as to -- is the spend going to be fairly stable from quarter-to-quarter or is it weighted toward either half of the year? We haven't got the monthly cash flows.
My guess is it's going to be fairly equal through the year.
Obviously it will be a little lower in the winter season when we can't get in and do construction.
So we haven't done the monthly forecast also.
We really haven't given any guidance on the actual monthly flows.
All right.
And then with regards to taken delivery of your equity capital did I hear correctly that you would anticipate in 2013 that total being from 75 million to 125 million of the overall total? Jim do you want to address that? 175 Michael it's 175 to 225.
And that includes both debt and… 175 to 225.
Yeah both debt and equity.
All right.
And remind me does that include any long-term debt that has not yet been disclosed or priced? Yes it does.
And we will now go to Paul Risdon with KeyBanc.
Can you just give some more detail on the lumpiness of O&amp;M throughout the year and kind of what is driving that? I mean we do have seasonal flows.
Most of the challenges with O&amp;M each year is when the plants go under construction our maintenance during the outages.
And so Jim can give you a little better sense of that on the difference between last year and this year on the O&amp;M side but there is certain amount of seasonality to our O&amp;M based on the maintenance at our plants.
Yeah there are outage that we typically take that are based on cycles associated with generating plants.
You will do it one year and you want do it the next year.
So that's driving a bit of the difference.
We've had fewer heating degree days out there over the last couple of quarter.
So that's creating some differences there as well.
In addition we've had if you look at last year versus this year last year was very high high growth year we were 126% of normal event.
So we had a lot of displacement associated with the power plant.
This year for a hydro year we're running the plants more which means you're going two more cycles which means that you're getting a bit more O&amp;M expenses associated with it.
But the key thing to keep in mind is when you look at it from an annual basis we're expected to come back in line by year end.
Thanks.
And when do you expect normal wind conditions for the year is that kind of a revised wind resource analysis or is that the original? It's revised.
And I would note that in the General Rate Case we did update the forecast to our best forecast wind would look like the commission adopted that forecast 2014 and we continue to looking at as we go through each subsequent test year but it was a recognition that the wind hasn't generated in the past and I believe we're going to the four year rolling average -- five year rolling average on the forecast of wind which will help through step up over time.
And then it sounds like you are going to be pretty busy on the regulatory front over the next few years.
Is there going to be a discussion about kind of transfer of risk of the sharing mechanisms for power supply cost? Or is that something- The utilities are looking at the PCAM mechanism right now and out on the PacifiCorp was effectively handed the same PCAM mechanism that we have got.
And so we're comparing notes with PacifiCorp and others and plan on having a discussion with the Commission on the ability to make improvements in that mechanism.
So we're still very early in the process at this particular point in time so it's hard to say what those conversations are going to look like.
And then just lastly the discussion around decoupling and the extension there was that a controversial issue or do you think maybe we may just see decoupling into the future as far as we can see.
You know I don't want to say a long term future at least the next three years it's in place.
I think everyone finds the mechanism to be a right balance of risk and reward.
It takes away the disincentive to encourage energy efficiency.
You know we've been a real supporter of energy efficiency and we used the Energy Trust of Oregon to implement those programs.
So I think it's a good mechanism and it allows for both the ups and downs on customer use and so overall we think we made some small minor modifications to the mechanism but they're very minor related to the new customer use per customer.
So overall I think it's a good mechanism.
There was very little controversy around that mechanism.
Again it applies to our residential and small commercial customers.
And we'll now hear from Andrew Weisel with Macquarie Capital.
A couple of questions to follow-up on some what's been discussed.
You mentioned you're going to consider using a combination maybe of general rate case and the rider of the recover the renewable costs.
Why wouldn't you just use the rider? I thought that was one of the more favorable mechanisms at your disposal because it's straight forward and simple.
Why would you consider even partially using a general rate case? Well the way we would do this as the year of the project goes in to service we've used the renewable adjustment clause.
In the subsequent year you would then -- you could use the renewable adjustment clause to put the rate the prices in [took] place on January 1.
But if we also have a general rate case are contemplated for that exact same period you would essentially include it in the general price change overall.
It just would be simpler that way rather than having a rider tariff.
So it really depends on the timing of other things that we're doing.
If there's nothing else going on we would use the RAC but if we have a general rate case going in to service on 2016 we would just incorporate that investment in to that rate base and move forward it.
There is no reason to have that extra clause out there.
So we have a couple of options and it really depends on how we look at our regulatory strategy as we get close to that timeframe.
Okay that's helpful and the repair cost related to two coal plants.
You said those will be capitalized.
When might those be recovered? Would that be folded in to next year's rate case or could it be slipped in to the current one? So what we do is in the 2014 test year or 2015 test year what we file in 2014 whatever that remaining investment would go in to our capitalized rate base and be recovered on a going forward basis.
It's likely to be very small just because we think most of the cost will be covered under our insurance program and it will be recovered on the life of the asset.
Very good next question is on load growth it looks like you're now expecting this year to be flat relative to a previously you said 0.5% to 1% can you maybe talk about the 2Q actual weather adjusted load growth and maybe similar underlying trends you're seeing in terms of the economy looks like the account growth was there.
So what else am I missing?  Yeah we had a really good strong second quarter and very pleased to see it kind of rebound from what we saw in the first quarter.
So that's encouraging news I think we're being still a little bit pessimistic in terms of how things are going as the Oregon economy is starting to improve but we've been relatively conservative in terms of how this is ultimately going to play itself out through the rest of the year Jim can you give us some specific details on it?  Yeah we saw growth in all sectors effectively in the second quarter so it was on a weather adjusted basis so that was good news.
We're still trying to figure out what happened in the first quarter of the year where we saw quite the opposite.
So when we look at it from an annual perspective we said we need be a little bit more conservative on what we think our load forecast looks like because it would take a pretty good lift in order to get back to 0.5% or 1% so.
We took the lateral approach and so effectively we think it's going to be flat to 2012.
By the end of the third quarter we'll have better look to see how that growth is manifesting itself and whether there -- it's basically sticking.
I thought the first quarter was flat ex-weather in adjusting for the leap date current -- now look – you're saying 1Q was actually negative could you have the numbers for 1Q and 2Q? For the first Q on a weather adjusted basis.
You said it was flat on the last call? Yeah when you take out the leap day and other adjustments but when you look inside it and we are trying to figure out what the trends are it becomes a bit more confusing as to why with the trends you are seeing from the economy unemployment rates or new connection going where economic outlook looks for the State of Oregon.
We would have expected more of an increased than we did in the first quarter.
Okay fair enough and then lastly to whatever degree you are able to comment with this trout request what are some possible range of outcomes you know best case scenario I would assume is that the commission just dismisses it what sort of realistic negative possible outcome for you guys whether its financial or timing or whatever? As you know as I see it playing out we just have to see I think you got the best case right the worst case is that I guess the commission could move forward with an investigation on this issue.
Ultimately we will go through a prudence review and this resource goes in the service which is them if they would review whether we've delivered these projects on time and on budget.
It's hard to tell where it is going to go but I think we feel like we have followed the process is going to laid out for us.
The only we did not ask for was acknowledgement of the shortlist but because of the need to move forward on this resources and preserve the economic value that was bid into the process we felt we had borrowed everything and hopefully the commission will sustain at position but it's hard to tell where it could go but maybe the worst cases they do open investigations and look at the issues.
But again I feel like we've done everything correctly according to process that was laid out and we've identified the leased cost lowest risk resource for our customers.
And we'll now go to Sarah Akers with Wells Fargo.
Just one question on the guidance.
With the PKM falling 14 million below the baseline year-to-date why is that benefit not offsetting the higher $10 million to $12 million in outage related costs was that positive PKM benefit already embedded in the prior guidance or what am I missing there? Sarah really gets down to the fact that we're looking at two different metrics you are looking at the income statement versus looking at the PKM mechanism and how the two are accounted for the PKM mechanism takes into account that the net of wholesale sales.
And where an income statement it's split out.
So there is some… Yes I think you got about right.
Sarah if we put our guidance together there is some assumption of improvement in overall power cost some of it's been there.
There is a wide range for our guidance and some of that will depend on what happens in overall power markets associated with hydro and other thing.
So essentially that I think you got it about right.
Not the whole but there is some of it's in there.
So is it an expectation of what's going to happen in the second half of the year besides the outages that's going to bring that back kind of to normal which I would assume is in better than guidance or you saying that better the normal on the PKM wasn't embedded originally? Not following your question? I can follow-up offline.
Yeah why don't you follow-up offline because I think there's just all bunch of things that are moving on you know most of the power costs under in came in the second quarter we still have the rest of the year to go and things can always change the hydro comes off early it depends on the shape of the hydro there's a whole bunch of things that happen when we look at the year the quarter-to-quarter distribution on power cost.
(Operator Instructions) And we will now go to Mark Barnett with Morningstar Equity Research.
Two quick questions with the culture for placement power given that you expect it through the end of the year have you already essentially fully contracted for that through the year end 2013? We have hedged the power costs since we found out that the plant was going offline.
We went out and we hedged the majority of that risk.
It's a little bit of shoulder hours that we didn't bother to cover because you got a win that will peak up in the evening and it didn't make sense for us to go ahead and hedge that part.
But we did all of that peak load pretty much.
I know you announced this in June and might be too early to really give more details but with the Cascade agreements is there any chance for you to talk about the term and exchange for certain PGEF based investments or transport capabilities what that might entail or is it too early? No it's still too early to tell.
We're in detailed conversation with Bonneville on a type of an agreement that would allow us to meet our capacity long-term transmission capacity needs and help them meet some of the needs they have on the overall system performance and reliability.
So we're really working with the parties very closely.
They try to work out what the arrangement would be.
If we can reach that agreement then we would ultimately have to take that agreement forward to get regulatory acknowledgement and at that time we would like to address what the commission are investment in Cascade Crossing which has really been the precursor to the conversations we've had with Bonneville as the whole transmission situations change in the west.
So we're working hard with Bonneville right now on that issue and we would just have to see if we can get to an agreement between BPA and PGE on meeting our needs and their needs.
And moving on we will now go to David Paz with Wolfe Research.
Quick question.
Does the $4.5 billion average rate investment for 2017 include your assumption of your cumulated deferred tax balance? Yes we forecasted right in there.
Okay do you have any sense of if we look at what was in your 2014 rate case the balance you got in there how much does it grow in 2017? I want to you to give Jim a call maybe he can give us a little detail on that.
We don't have it here.
We would just forecast those deferred taxes as part of our overall structure and the tax rates that we expect.
Great despite from the potential transmission agreement that you just discussed are there other potential projects outside of your ‘13 or ‘17 capital plans particularly as I guess we approach the 2020 I guess deadline?  We are right now in current integrated resource planning discussion that we will file later this year.
There is really not a lot of resources on the table or decisions that are critical in this IRP.
The next IRP we will file which probably be a couple years after now so 2015ish or may be 2016.
We do have to address both the Boardman replacement and our strategy to address that in 2021.
We'll have another 5% of renewable energy that we are going to have to add to get to the 2020 target of 20%.
And so IRP is relatively light but the next IRP will be a fair amount of conversations on how we meet those obligations and we will work with the constituents and all our parties to figure out what the lease cost lowest risk solution is on those decisions.
Okay.
And I guess just regarding our PSO I know there was some discussion about vote initiative include large hydro power you know where that stands right now?  The parties are doing ballot title testing and they are probably want to collect both signatures to get that initiative on the ballot.
We do understand that the environmental teams or groups maybe looking at increasing the RPS standard also as a potential counter to that measure so it's still little bit in the state of flux.
And we believe what put in place is a good policy.
It's unfortunate that that one party thinks that that they want to change a little bit.
When it was designed it was designed with the assumption that we were going to exclude hydro.
So if we had been including hydro I think the discussion would have been about a higher RPS standard because the whole thrust of the legislation was to increase the amount of renewables not just to recognize what was already in place.
So we will see how that goes and we think that the curve legislation is solid and we would like to see it continue.
And our next question will come from Andy Levi with Avon Capital.
See one question was asked.
Second one I didn't listen to that closely.
So maybe if we can just go over it real quickly.
On the equity side as far as how much equity did you say you would draw down this year? We didn't say specifically we said combination of debt and equity from 175 to 225 about a third that will probably be equity.
We are still sticking to our plan I want go guess going to match our equity draws in the forward structure to our capital expenditure programs.
So we have a lot of flexibility in the forward structure and how we draw that equity and so we do have some ability to move that around as we need the capital.
And then with rate base going up actually 50% is impressive from now just 2017 based on your rate base forecast.
How should we think I know you discussed this before but your lag number is pretty stagnant as far as the expense itself so should we assume that the ROE lag should lease because it have if not more is that kind of the simple way to look at it by 17? Yeah the most of the cost that we don't get recovery for a fairly fixed and other than little bit of inflation on those.
So as we grow rate base and grow our earnings those numbers become a smaller percentage I don't know if it's exactly half but they will go down and reduce the difference between our regulatory ROE and our actual ROE which will help it.
So I guess if rate base goes up 50% it's kind of a simple math I guess right? Yes.
(Operator Instructions).
We'll now go to Ashar Khan with Visium.
I guess just elaborating on Andy's question is there some way write the forward how should we think of the draw each year is there some rough percentages you could give us that how it would be drawn based on the CapEx forecast? We've been pretty clear we want to keep our capital structure about 50% debt 50% equity we'll use that as a guiding principle as we go forward.
I think for purpose of modeling that's probably as good as assumption or maybe month to month differences as we look at what's the optimal way to drive capital.
To the extent we're going to issue new debt we want to factor that into that discussion.
So for modeling I think that's closed enough for actual we'll be moving that around based on the needs for additional debt financing and the timing of that.
Could you give remind us how the forward was for how long of a period? It's for a two year period For two year period.
We want to draw by June 11 of 2015 Okay.
Thank you so much.
Okay I don't think we have any other calls.
We really thank you and appreciate your interest in Portland General Electric and invite you to join us when we report third quarter 2013 results in November.
Thanks a lot and have a great summer.
That does conclude today's program.
Thank you all for joining today.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Portland General Electric Company’s Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today is Friday November 1 2013.
This call is being recorded.
And as such all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) For opening remarks I would like to turn the conference call over to Portland General Electric’s Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Bill Valach.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Noah and good morning to everyone.
And we are very pleased that you are able to join us this morning.
Before we begin our discussion this morning I would like to remind you that we have prepared a PowerPoint presentation to supplement our discussions today and we will be referencing those slides throughout the call and then for those of you accessing the call over the phone those slides are available on our website at investors.portlandgeneral.com and it’s under the Events and Presentations tab.
Referring to Slide 2 I’d also like to make our customary statements regarding Portland General Electric’s written and oral disclosures and commentary that there will be statements in this call are not based on historical facts and as such constitute forward-looking statements under current laws.
These statements are subject to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made today and for description of some of the factors that may occur that could cause such differences the company requests that you read our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
PGE’s third quarter earnings were released before the market opened today and the release is available on our website.
The company undertakes no obligations to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise and the Safe Harbor statements should be incorporated as part of any transcript on this call.
As shown on Slide 3 leading our discussions today are Jim Piro President and CEO and Jim Lobdell Senior Vice President of Finance CFO and Treasurer.
Jim Piro will begin today’s presentation by providing a review of our performance in the third quarter and an update on our strategic initiatives.
Then Jim Lobdell will follow and will additional detail around the quarter’s results and our expectations for the remainder of 2013.
Following these prepared remarks we will open the lines up for your questions.
And now it’s my pleasure to turn the call over to Jim Piro.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Welcome to Portland General Electric’s third quarter 2013 earnings call.
I’d like to start with a brief update on our Board of Directors.
On Wednesday Corbin McNeill announced his retirement as Chairman of PGE’s Board of Directors effective October 31.
Current board member Jack Davis has been elected as the new Chairman.
Corbin joined our board in 2004 and has provided outstanding leadership perspective and guidance during his tenure as Chairman.
Our company has benefited from his deep knowledge of and passion for the electric utility industry.
On behalf of all our employees I’d like to thank Corbin for a decade of dedication and service to our customers shareholders and employees.
We wish him well during his retirement.
Our new Chairman Jack Davis joined the board in June 2012 and brings extensive regulated utility experience to PGE.
During his 35 years at Arizona Public Service Company Jack held management positions in various areas of the company including commercial operations generation and transmission customer service and power operations.
He most recently served as Chief Executive Officer at Arizona Public Service Company for six years.
Jack is a great asset for PGE and I look forward to working with him in his new role.
Now let’s move on to Slide 4.
On today’s call I will provide you an update on the construction of our new generation resources summarize the progress we made on the 2014 general rate case give you an update on our operations and discuss the economy in our service area.
And Jim Lobdell will give you a financial update discussing the quarter’s results and our outlook for the remainder of 2013.
As presented on Slide 5 we recorded net income of $31 million or $0.40 per share compared with net income of $38 million or $0.50 per share for the third quarter of 2012.
Higher power costs primarily due to the three planned outages accounted for $0.06 per share and increased delivery system cost due to a service restoration work and the timing of other distribution expenses accounted for $0.04 per share.
So let’s start with an update on the construction of our new generation resources.
We have a successful track record of building generation plants.
Our two most recent projects Port Westward Unit 1 and the Biglow Canyon Wind Farm were built on-time and on-budget and received full regulatory recovery.
Similar to those projects our three new generation projects have fixed price contracts with experienced contractors.
So we are confident in our ability to bring these projects into service on-time and on-budget.
Slide 6 provides detail on Port Westward Unit 2 a 220 megawatt natural gas plant located adjacent to our existing Port Westward Unit 1.
Construction began earlier this year engine pads and building foundations are complete and their reciprocating engines will be delivered to this site early next year.
This project is on schedule and on budget and is expected to be operational in the first quarter of 2015.
Slide 7 provides detail on the Tucannon River Wind Farm project a 267 megawatt project located on 20 000 acres in Southeastern Washington.
We broke ground in September and had been working on design engineering and infrastructure development including road construction and turbine foundations.
Tucannon River Wind Farm is on schedule and on budget and is expected to operational in the first half of 2015.
The project will qualify for production tax credits.
Lastly Slide 8 provides details on the Carty Generation Station a 440 megawatt natural gas plant that will be located next to our existing Boardman Plant.
Design and engineering is well underway and we expect to break ground in early 2014.
Project is on schedule and on budget and is expected to be operational in mid-2016.
Slide 9 provides the summary of the company’s five year capital expenditure forecast.
All together the new generation projects along with our ongoing investment in our base business resulted in an average rate base of approximately $4.5 billion by 2017 an increase of $1.4 billion from our actual 2012 rate base.
The new generation projects along with our continued investment in our base business are important to meet our customers’ needs through a liable service and efficiently generated power.
Moving to the Slide 10 we filed the general rate case this past February based on the 2014 test year.
With the recent stipulation on pension expense I am pleased that we have now settled all items with the OPUC staff and interveners.
PGE and parties have stipulated to a 9.75% ROE a capital structure of 50% debt and 50% equity and an average rate base of $3.1 billion.
We expect the commission to issue a final order in mid-December resulting in an average overall price increase from the general rate case of approximately 4% effective January 1 2014.
We have also joined other utilities to address long-term pension cost recovery and the power cost adjustment mechanism or PCAM and formal regulatory proceedings and we will update you on our progress as the information is available.
Now for an operational update on Slide 11.
As we previously disclosed three generation resources experienced outages in the third quarter of this year.
Specifically the Boardman and Colstrip Unit 4 coal plants went offline on the July 1.
Boardman which we operate came back online at the end of July as planned and has been operating at higher availability levels since it returned to service.
Colstrip Unit 4 which is operated by PPL Montana will continue to be offline until early next year while its stator and rotor are being repaired.
Our Coyote Springs natural gas-fired plant went offline in late August due to a crack in the steam turbine rotor.
We put repairs are well underway and we expect Coyote Springs to come back on line later this month.
PGE’s share of repair cost for the coal plant outages is expected to be covered by insurance net of approximately $2 million in deductibles which mostly will be capitalized.
Repair costs for Coyote Springs are estimated to be about $2 million.
Altogether incremental replacement power cost in 2013 for these outages are expected to be between $16 million and $18 million.
All three of these plants had been reliable sources of power for many years.
And like Boardman we expect Colstrip and Coyote Springs to resume their high availability levels once repairs are completed.
Now let’s move on to Slide 12 for an update on the economy and our customers.
Oregon’s economy continues to show positive signs.
Housing and commercial real estate market indicators are trending upward in our service area.
Monthly sales housing prices and residential building permits have all shown increases over the prior year and we are seeing increased commercial leasing activity.
These economic indicators reflect future construction activity and customer growth in our service area.
Oregon’s unemployment rate was 8.1% in August compared to 8.4% a year ago.
The unemployment rate in our core operating area was 6.8% in August down from 7.3% a year ago.
Our manufacturing and high-tech industries also continue to grow.
In September Daimler Trucks announced their plans to expand its corporate headquarters in Portland and add 400 new jobs.
Intel continues to build Phase 1 and Phase 2 of its D1X fab plan and its expansion also drives growth from suppliers serving the project.
Looking ahead our most recent power cost update to the Oregon Public Utility Commission included projected retail load growth of approximately 1% in 2014 primarily driven by a forecasted increase in energy deliveries to the industrial sectors as datacenters in companies like Daimler and Intel continue to expand and grow.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Jim Lobdell who will discuss our financial results for the third quarter and review our expectations for the remainder of the year.
Jim? Finance Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer</strong> Thanks Jim.
Turning to Slide 13.
For the third quarter of 2013 we recorded net income of $31 million or $0.40 per diluted share compared to net income of $38 million or $0.50 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2012.
This decrease was driven by several pre-tax items.
An $8 million increase in purchase power and fuel expense primarily due to the three plant outages that Jim mentioned.
A $5 million increase in delivery system expense due to service restoration work and other plant expenses and a $7 million decrease in revenue related to the 2011 PCAM refund reduction in the third quarter of 2012.
These items were partially offset by a $6 million benefit from increased AFDC on our new generation projects and investment gains on our benefit plan assets.
Moving to Slide 14 total revenues for the quarter were $435 million down $15 million from the same period last year.
A small increase in retail energy deliveries was more than offset by a decrease in average retail prices.
When adjusted for weather energy deliveries were approximately flat quarter-over-quarter.
Although we have seen growth in residential deliveries and steady deliveries to the commercial and industrial sectors during the year energy demand is not growing at the rate we originally expected.
Our year-to-date weather adjusted loads were also approximately flat compared to the first nine months of last year.
And we expect this to continue for the balance of the year.
Purchase power and fuel expense increased $8 million quarter-over-quarter driven by approximately $11 million of incremental replacement power cost for our plant outages in the third quarter of 2013.
These outages drove net variable power costs above our 2013 annual power cost update tariff forecast for the third quarter.
For the full year including incremental replacement power cost for the three plant outages we expect net variable power cost to be between the PCAM baseline and the upper deadband.
Moving to Slide 15 production distribution and administrative cost totaled $103 million this quarter a $4 million higher – it was $4 million higher than the third quarter of 2012.
While generation and maintenance expense decreased quarter-over-quarter delivery system expense increased due to the timing of the plant maintenance repair and IT work.
In addition pension expense increased $2 million quarter-over-quarter as expected but was offset by lower employee incentives.
For the full year overall O&amp;M is still on track to be within our forecasted range of $440 million and $460 million.
Interest expense decreased $2 million quarter-over-quarter due to the timing of maturities and issuances of long-term debt.
Further AFDC debt is up $1 million and AFDC equity is up $2 million reflecting increased CWIP from our three generating projects.
On addition we recognized a $2.6 million gain on our non-qualified benefit plan assets this quarter compared to a $200 000 gain in the third quarter of 2012.
Lastly income taxes decreased quarter-over-quarter as our lower taxable income decreased our effective tax rate to approximately 15% year-to-date.
Now turning to Slide 16.
We continue to maintain a solid balance sheet including investment grade credit ratings and strong liquidity.
As of September 30 2013 we had $787 million in cash and available credit and an equity percentage of 50.5%.
In August we issued 700 000 shares of common stock pursuant to the equity forward agreement we entered into in June for approximately $20 million in net proceeds.
This brings our total shares outstanding to $78.1 million at the end of the third quarter.
At this time we do not expect to issue additional equity for the remainder of 2013.
In regards to long-term debt we entered into an agreement last month to issue an additional $155 million of first mortgage bonds in two tranches a $105 million at 4.74% in November maturing in 2042 and $50 million at 12.84% in December maturing in 2048.
We do not anticipate any further debt issuances this year.
As we look ahead to 2014 we’ll continue to finance the construction of our generation projects with a combination of debt and equity targeting a 50-50 cap structure.
At this point we expect our equity issuances pursuant to the forward structure to be more weighted in the first half of the year and our debt issuances to be more weighted in the second half of the year.
Now let’s discuss our outlook for the remainder of 2013.
As shown on Slide 17 we are reducing our 2013 earnings guidance from $1.25 to $1.40 per share to $1.20 to $1.30 per share.
This decrease is driven by the incremental replacement power cost we are incurring for the Coyote Springs plant outage.
Excluding the impacts of the $52 million expense for the Cascade Crossing Transmission Project and the $9 million expense for the customer billing matter which we disclosed last quarter PGE’s full year operating earnings guidance for 2013 would be $1.70 to $1.80 per share.
As Slide 18 displays our full year 2013 guidance includes the following assumptions: energy deliveries compared to weather-adjusted 2012 levels O&amp;M expense between $440 million and $460 million D&amp;A expense between $240 million and $250 million and capital expenditures between $710 million and $730 million.
In regards to our 2014 forecast we will provide earnings guidance on our February call.
Now back to you Jim? Thanks.
While the generating plant outages have been challenging this year I am pleased that the balance of the company’s operations have been very strong.
Our performance and distribution reliability and customer satisfaction is top quartile.
We reached a reasonable settlement on all issues in our 2014 general rate case.
And we have made great progress on the construction of our three new generation resources to meet our customers’ needs.
Now operator we are ready for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Let’s take our first question from Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning Neil.
Can you talk about when in the first quarter you are targeting Colstrip to actually come online? And is there rule of thumb for every month into 2014 what the economic impact would be? We are looking at probably towards the end of January as the timing the plant will come back online.
And it’s roughly around $2 million a year – a month from there – $2 million a month for replacement power costs.
A lot of that will depend on hydro conditions next year as well as temperature in the region but that’s a good rule of thumb.
But right now that’s what we are looking at.
Alright and then just in terms of the outages have you done your own internal review how you thought about this being a structural operational issue versus just a coincidence unfortunate coincidence that we had three outages this year? It’s really just – I think it’s just a coincidence.
If you look at the history of these plants they had a long track record of high availability and Boardman was just a short outage it was a failure of a valve that caused the problem.
We have repaired that and made the correction and the plant is running well again.
The Coyote Springs plant if you look at it historically that plant is built I think in ’94 or so.
It had a great record of running and the rotors had no problem so this crack is very unusual to happen but we have got the repairs and we don’t expect the problem going forward plants that are really solid performer.
And in Colstrip the same thing we are still looking at the root cause of the failure.
But it looks like just a one-off item that happened and just an unfortunate situation.
But again when you look at the history of those plants they have all had a long track record of high availability.
Neil to put a little bit finer point it’s been over 90% for these plants.
Perfect.
And then finally in terms of regulatory strategy can you go asset by asset from the RFPs and say – talk about how you are thinking about actually getting final recovery on each of those? Here is our current thinking for regulatory strategy.
Right now and we just had our Board meeting this week.
We talked to our Board about this I think they are comfortable what our strategy which is file a general rate case in February of 2014 that would include both overall general cost increases to the extent there are any and then the inclusion of Port Westward Unit 2 and the Tucannon River Wind Farm in that filing.
The rates for those projects would not go into service or would not go into customer prices until those plants go fully operational.
And the price increase for Port Westward 2 is roughly in the 3% range and for Tucannon River Wind Farm is roughly in the 2% to 3% price range.
We are still playing with the numbers a little bit.
But not significant price increase a lot of that will depend on what power prices are as we kind of formalize next year’s forecast but relatively small increases given the size of the resources going in.
We will probably for Tucannon River Wind Farm some of the streams we are going to service in late 2014 we will use renewable adjustment clause to track in the further cost during 2014 for those streams that get completed.
And then again we will put that plant into service and the customer prices when it goes fully operational probably late first quarter 2015.
As for Carty the current schedule they have that plant come on in mid-2016.
Again we would have to file a general rate case to include that in customer pricings.
We haven’t decided exactly how we will do that whether we will run it full general for 2016 or is that your test year.
We just have to look at what fits that project the best.
The price increase there is somewhere between 6% and 7%.
Again it will be dependent on gas prices and kind of what’s going on in the market at that time that’s kind of roughly what we are thinking about.
Thanks Neil.
And we will take our next question from Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Following on that question when does Port Westward go on? Port Westward Unit 2 will – it’s either – its right in the first quarter of 2015.
It might be right in January.
Things are going well in the construction assuming we have good construction weather and so forth.
We would look like we will get that thing done in maybe even in 2014 but likely early 2015 January.
So with that would you have put Westward and Tucannon in at the same time as soon as one goes operational it goes in regardless of what’s happening at the other plant? The plan right now is to basically put those prices into – put the costs into customers’ prices when the project becomes operational.
We would happily certify to the commission that the plant is operational and then we would make a price change.
The same thing with Tucannon and River Wind Farm when it’s fully operational we would put into customer prices at that point.
Using the rack to bridge that period of time till the plant goes fully operational for Tucannon River Wind Farm.
So that’s the way we would do it.
If the commission and the parties don’t want to go that direction on Tucannon River Wind Farm we could use the renewable adjustment clause in 2015 also but we would rather not create a deferral that we have to recover in a subsequent period that is to put it right into customers’ prices.
And as far as financing your forward sales fully will meet the needs for the equity portion of these assets? Yeah between the equity forward that we have got and some additional first mortgage bonds financing we should be able to cover everything we need to do in 2014.
But what about beyond ’14? Beyond ‘14 really depends on what the capital needs of the company is.
Whether if we have got additional capital projects that we need it will cover the three generating projects and then base CapEx.
Got it okay thank you very much.
We will take our next question from Lauren Duke with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
Good morning Lauren.
Good morning.
So you mentioned weather adjusted sales kind of being flat year-to-date what were weather adjusted sales kind of if you also adjust for the leap year did you see a bigger uptake when you kind of adjusted for that impact? It’s just about the same.
There is not that much of a difference.
You are just looking at the nine months versus looking at the quarter.
We talked about that quite a bit on the prior call for the prior quarters also.
Okay and in the third quarter did you see some improvement in sales that kind of helps give you confidence in your 2014 outlook? Again we did see an increase and the – a slight increase and in the sales in the residential and commercial.
What we are really looking at is what’s happening in the industrial sector.
In that particular sector we are seeing a lot of movement in the high-tech area.
We are seeing data centers are starting to pick up.
But some of its just being overshadowed by the fact that we got some solar manufacturing that is causing a negative growth in our loads.
But the nice thing is nice but bad is the fact that’s becoming a smaller and smaller percentage.
And so further reductions in that sector isn’t going to be as impactful.
Couple of other things Lauren We didn’t really talk about in the general rate case they get extended decoupling mechanism for residential and small commercial and including the lost revenue effect.
As you know we are pretty – we do a fair amount of energy efficiency in our service territory sometimes as much as 30 average megawatts.
So that kind of reduces our load growth and kind of masks that there is actually growth going on which is being kind of overtaken or offset by energy efficiency by customers who are actually running a pretty aggressive LED in street lightening program right now which is a real great cost effective program for our customers that reduces energy usage but also provides as an investment opportunity as we put those lights into service.
So there is lot of things going on and it’s hard to kind of show that all in the numbers.
And so that’s just something to take into account as you look at our numbers.
Thank you very much guys.
Thanks Lauren.
Thanks.
And we will take our next question from Sarah Akers from Wells Fargo.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Sarah.
Good morning Sarah.
Hi with the construction started on two of the RFP projects are you able to give a better sense of how much of the remaining forward equity will be drawn down in ‘14 versus ‘15? We think that we are going to pull down the balance of it in 2014.
Okay.
And you mentioned earlier that it would be first half of or earlier in the year versus latter? Correct.
Okay.
And then as a follow-up to Neil’s question on Colstar I just want to make sure that the $2 million of incremental monthly power costs that you are – that you expect to see that should be embedded in the ’14 power costs forecast so no impact on EPS in ’14 from the outage correct? No actually it’s not to the extent that Colstar carries over into 2014 that’s not included in the annual update tariff because we have forced outage percentages.
And so that will actually be a hit to EPS in the first quarter.
So obviously we are very focused on bringing or helping PPL Montana bring that plant on time and back online with as little time as possible out.
Got it thanks a lot.
We will take our next question from Andrew Weisel with Macquarie Capital.
Hi good morning.
My first question is on Carty your press release says that construction starts early next year your Slide 8 shows $125 million of spending in 2013 can you help us understand what’s going into that $125 million before construction starts? Yes it’s part of the – as we have to start construction of the turbine and the generator and things with Mitsubishi.
And so there is payments to the contractor to get that work started and completed or get it underway.
So they are already starting to work on the turbine and the generator as well as just costs to do all the engineering and procure the equipment so some of the prepayments are actually made before the equipment finally shows up on slide.
Okay that makes sense.
Then my other question is to follow with rate case in the books can you give us an early look into next year what the trends might look like for O&amp;M and D&amp;A and how much of that will be recovered through revenues versus sort of a headwind for earnings? So as I mentioned for ‘15 ‘14 is already covered in our rate case and so we just finished our budget for ‘14 and it’s totally aligned with what the rate cases projections are.
So costs are fully aligned for ‘14.
When we look at ‘15 we will file a general rate case because that’s the basis for recovering the new generating plants.
We don’t expect a big increase in O&amp;M between ‘14 and ‘15 basically just inflation.
Does that mean that in 2014 your increase in O&amp;M as well as D&amp;A will be roughly earnings neutral because the increase is fully recovered? Yes that’s correct.
Okay.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Andy Levi with Avon Capital.
I am actually all set.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thanks.
We will take our next question from Ashar Khan with Visium.
Hi good morning.
May I just ask could you just help us out what would be the average share count in 2014? Jim provided that before.
We haven’t provided that before.
Really depending on the equity drive and the actual timing of that the number of shares that we issued in the forward structure are… Was about $12.7 million.
Right.
So we got 12.7 million shares we got issued.
Prior to that we had about we had about 75 million shares of stock.
And as Jim said we will draw that during the first half of the year but we haven’t given exact time of that draw.
But you are going to see those shares are about – those shares would all be added by the end of the second half of the year.
So is that you would draw should we think of it draw throughout the first six months or should we expect it all at one time how should one think of it? I would say it would be over the first six months of the year.
That’s the beauty of the forward structure.
We can draw as we needed to fund the cash flows in the construction.
So we are not going to over draw and we will try to match it with the needs of the construction which will then be covered through the AFDC calculation.
Yes I mean to the extent that milestones associated with the projects move forward and move back which is timed appropriately with those.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
And this does conclude today’s question-and-answer session.
For any additional or closing remarks I would now like to turn it back to Jim Piro.
Thank you.
We appreciate your interest in Portland General Electric and look forward to see many of you at EEI later this month.
We also invite you to join us when we report our fourth quarter and full year 2013 results in February.
Thanks a lot and have a great day.
And this does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the Portland General Electric Company’s Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today is Friday February 14 2014.
This call is being recorded and as such all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions).
For opening remarks I would like to turn the conference call over to Portland General Electric’s Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Bill Valach.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Angela and good morning everyone.
We are very pleased that you are able to join us today.
Before we begin our discussion this morning I would like to remind you that we have prepared a slide presentation to supplement the discussion which we will be referencing throughout the call.
The slides are also available on our website at portlandgeneral.com.
Referring to Slide 2 I’d also like to make our customary statements regarding Portland General Electric’s written and oral disclosures and commentary that there will be statements in this call are not based on historical facts and as such constitute forward-looking statements under current laws.
These statements are subject to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made today.
For a description of some of the factors that may occur that could cause such differences the Company requests that you read our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Qs.
Portland General Electric’s fourth quarter and full year earnings were released via our earnings press release and the release is available at our website at portlandgeneral.com.
The company also filed its 2013 Annual Form 10-K when the market open today and it’s also available on our website.
The company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise and this Safe Harbor statement should be incorporated as part of any transcript of this call.
As shown on Slide 3 leading our discussion today are Jim Piro President and CEO; and Jim Lobdell Senior Vice President of Finance CFO and Treasurer.
Jim Piro will begin today’s discussion by providing an update on our growth initiatives regulatory strategy operational performance and our service area economy.
Then Jim Lobdell will provide more detail around the fourth quarter and the full year earnings results and discuss our outlook for 2014.
Following these prepared remarks we will open the lineup for your questions.
And now it’s my pleasure to turn the call over to Jim Piro.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Welcome to Portland General Electric’s fourth quarter and full year 2013 earnings call.
As presented on Slide 4 we recorded net income of $105 million or $1.35 per diluted share in 2013 compared with net income of $141 million or $1.87 per diluted share in 2012.
The decrease in net income was primarily driven by three factors.
The Cascade Crossing Transmission Project write-off of $0.42 a refund to industrial customer in the second quarter of $0.07 and incremental replacement cost for our three generating plant outages of $0.13.
We made important progress in 2013 as we concluded two RFP processes that resulted in the selection of three new generating plants and we reached the fair outcome in final order on 2014 general rate case.
In 2014 we are focused on constructing our three new generating projects bringing two of these projects into customer prices to the 2015 general rate case filed yesterday and managing our operations in a safe and cost efficient manner in order to provide excellent service to our customers.
Now let me update you on the progress we are making on these three projects.
Slide 5 provides more detail on Port Westward Unit 2 a 220 megawatt natural gas capacity plant being built next to our existing Port Westward plant in Tucannon Oregon.
The project is on budget on time and scheduled to be operational in the first quarter of next year.
As you may have heard before PGE received the engines on site one of the 12 reciprocating engines was damaged while being transported to the construction site.
The engine manufacturer will provide a replacement engine in the spring.
In the mean time construction will continue with engine and generator installation and substation construction.
Slide 6 includes an update on Tucannon River a 267 megawatt wind farm located on 20 000 acres in Southeastern Washington.
The project is on budget and on track to be fully online in the first half of 2015.
25 of the 116 turbine foundations have been completed and design for roads the operational building and the substation are near completion.
In addition about 30% of the blades have now arrived in the Boardman Area and are ready for shipment to the construction site.
Upcoming milestone includes receiving the main transformer on site completing the remaining foundations and erecting turbines.
Lastly Slide 7 summarizes the Carty Generation Station a 440 megawatt based load natural gas plant that has been constructed next to our existing Boardman Plant.
This project is on budget and on schedule to be operational in mid-2016.
We broke ground in early January and are currently working on ground clearing and grading while the gas and steam turbines are being manufactured.
Nest step includes completing design and engineering work pouring foundations and receiving the major equipment on site.
Slide 8 provides a summary of the company’s five year capital expenditure forecast.
All together the new generating projects resulted in average rate base increase of $1.4 billion for an approximate rate base of $4.5 billion in 2017.
We’re focused on completing these projects on time and on budget in order to meet our customers needs with reliable efficiently generated power for many years to come.
Now for a regulatory update on Slide 9.
Yesterday we filed a new general rate case with a 2015 texture.
The filing is now available on our website.
The filing request an overall revenue increase of $81 million based on a 10% ROE a capital structure of 50% debt and 50% equity and a rate base of $3.9 billion.
This request includes a small increase in the base business cost which will be more than offset by several customer credits that we proposed to begin amortizing in 2015.
The primary focus of this regulatory filing is the cost recovery of Port Westward Unit 2 and Tucannon River Wind Farm.
We are requesting customer prices changes at the time these resources go online.
Port Westward Unit 2 represents an increase of $51 million or 3% in the first quarter of 2015 and Tucannon River Wind Farm represents an increase of 47 million or 3% in the first half of 2015.
We expect the commission to issue a final order in mid-December if approved the overall price increase for all components including the customer credits would be 4.6%.
Now for an operational update on Slide 10 as we previously discussed three generating resources experienced outage in the second half of 2013.
Colstrip Unit 4 came back online at the end of January as expected and I am pleased that all three plants are available in operating well.
For the full year overall PGE generation availability was 89%.
We continue to have top quartile reliability metric and our customer satisfaction ratings for residential general business and key customers all ranked top decile while in the latest survey.
In 2014 we continue to focus on safe and efficient operations through leveraging new technology and refining business processes.
We’re making progress with our transmission and distribution transformation projects which include replacing our work and asset management system and preparing for the replacement of our mapping and outage management systems.
We’re going to take a moment to recognize the great work and dedication that our exceptional employees have shown which has enabled us to maintain the excellent service and reliabilities our customers have to expect from us.
Now for an update on the economy and our customers on Slide 11 Oregon’s economy continues to show positive signs with housing and commercial real estate indicators trending upwards.
Oregon ranked number one for in migration in 2013 according to the United Van Lines' annual study reporting a year-over-year increase in customers of 1%.
Oregon’s unemployment rate was 7% in December which is the lowest unemployment rate in more than five years.
This compares with 8.3% a year ago.
The unemployment rate in our core service area was 6.1% in December down from 7.4% a year ago.
Employment growth in Oregon was 2.3% in 2013 with most of the growth occurring in the areas of construction health services leisure and hospitality and professional and business services.
For the fourth quarter and full year 2013 weather adjusted energy deliveries were comparable to the same period of 2012.
Deliveries to residential customers were comparable to the prior year as expected.
Commercial deliveries dipped slightly despite the positive economic indicators over the past year.
Deliveries related to the high-tech expansion showed positive signs but were largely offset by declining deliveries to solar manufacturing customers and a partial curtailment at our paper manufacturing plant.
In 2014 we expect weather normalized load growth of approximately 1%.
This is net of approximately 1.5% of energy efficiency.
Despite deliveries to residential and commercial customers are expected to be comparable to 2013 with the majority of growth coming from increased energy deliveries to the industrial sector.
In particular energy demand from the high-tech sector is expected to increase as Intel it suppliers and datacenters continue to grow and expand their business.
The Oregon state economic forecast released yesterday shows the economic outlook for 2014 is positive with a slight acceleration in the Oregon employment growth this year.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Jim Lobdell who will discuss our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year and initiating our outlook for 2014.
Jim?  Thank you Jim.
Turning to slide 12 in fourth quarter of 2013 we recorded net income of 47 million or $0.59 per diluted share compared to net income of 28 million or $0.38 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2012.
This increase was primarily driven by three items a $21 million increase in retail revenues as the result of an increase in energy deliveries due to a colder weather in 2013 a $5 million increase in AFDC due to higher [indiscernible] balances in three new generating projects and a $10 million decrease in income taxes due to changes in production tax credits and an adjustment to the deferred cash balances recorded in 2012.
These benefits were partially offset by $16 million -- in a $16 million increase in net variable power costs driven by increased energy delivery and increased replacement power costs for Coyote Springs and Colstrip Unit 4 plant outages during the quarter.
As shown on slide 13 for the full year of 2013 we recorded net income of a 105 million or $1.35 per diluted share compared to a $141 million or a $1.87 per diluted share for 2012.
This decrease was primarily driven by four items a $9 million decrease in revenues from a customer billing refund in the second quarter of 2013 17 million of incremental replacement power costs involving Coyote Spring and Colstrip Unit 4 outages a $17 million increase in operations and maintenance expense including increases in generation and distribution maintenance and pension expense and a $52 million expense from the write-off of the Cascade Crossing Transmission Project.
These full year impacts were partially offset by a $10 million increase in AFDC due to higher [indiscernible] balances for the three new generating projects a $7 million benefit from earnings from our non-qualified benefit plan trust assets and lower interest expense and a $9 million decrease in income taxes due an increase in production tax credits and an adjustment to the deferred tax balances recorded in 2012.
For the full year excluding the negative impact of Cascade Crossing and the customer billing refund non-GAAP adjusted operating earnings would have been $1.84 per share.
Moving on to slide 14 total revenues for the fourth quarter of 2013 increased 36 million to 499 million driven by higher energy deliveries.
Weather in the fourth quarter of 2013 was much colder than the previous year with [indiscernible] days increasing 26% quarter over quarter.
From a full year total revenues increased 5 million as increases in retail energy deliveries and wholesale sales were offset by a decrease in customer prices.
Purchase power and fuel expense increased 31 million year over year driven by an increase in the average variable power cost per megawatt hour based on three main factors less hydro or less favorable hydro conditions in the region which contributed to an increase in the price per megawatt hour of purchase power and a 11% decrease in energy received from our own and contracted for hydro which we replaced with thermal generation and purchase power and 17 million of incremental power costs for the three unplanned thermal plant outages that we replaced with purchase power as well.
In total net variable power costs were $11 million above the annual power cost update tariff baseline for the full year.
Moving to slide 15 production distribution and administrative costs totaled 444 million in 2013 17 million higher than in 2012 at the lower end of our forecast range of 440-460 million.
This increase was largely due to planned overhaul and repair costs at Colstrip and Coyote Springs generating plants and a warranty extension for the Biglow Canyon wind farm.
In addition pension expense increased approximately 6 million year over year.
Interest expense decreased 7 million year over year 4 million from the timing of maturities and issuances of long term debt and 3 million from higher AFDC from borrowed funds.
Other income net increased $10 million year over year primarily driven by a $7 million increase in AFDC from equity funds and a $2 million increase in earnings from our non-qualified benefit plan trust assets.
Lastly income taxes decreased 43 million year-over-year.
In addition to lower taxable income in 2013 this decrease was driven by an increase in production tax credits due to increased new generation and an adjustment to the deferred tax balances recorded in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Turning to slide 16 we continue to maintain a solid balance sheet including strong liquidity and investment grade credit ratings.
As of December 31 2013 we had 793 million in cash and available credit and a common equity ratio of 48.7%.
On January 30 2014 Moody’s upgraded PGE’s long term issuer rating from BAA1 to A3 based on their view of PGE’s outlook and a favorable view of the U.S.
and Oregon’s regulatory environment.
Total capital expenditures for 2013 were 720 million including 385 million for the three new generation resources.
To fund these projects and our base business capital expenditures we successfully issued debt and equity in 2013.
Between June and December we issued 380 million of long term first mortgage bonds at interest rates between 4.47% and 4.84%.
We entered into an equity forward agreement in connection with the public offering of 11.1 million shares and we issued 1.7 million shares from the underwriters’ exercise of an overallotment option.
As of December 31st we’ve issued 700 000 shares under the forward sale agreement resulting in a total shares outstanding of 78.1 million.
As shown on slide 17 we are initiating full year 2014 earnings guidance of $2 to $2.15 per diluted share.
This guidance is based on the following assumption; retail deliveries and revenues in line with levels set in the 2014 [January] case; average hydro conditions; wind generation based on historical levels; normal thermal plan operations; Colstrip unit for replacement cost in January of 1.5 million; O&amp;M expenses between 480 million and 500 million; and D&amp;A expense between 300 million and 310 million.
In addition we expect capital expenditure slightly above $1 billion for 2014.
To finance these expenditures we will continue to use a combination of [drives] on our equity forward and new debt issuances.
Further we were exploring financing options that could allow us to delay some or all of the equity [drives] to the second half of the year which will decrease our share dilution.
Back to you Jim.
Thanks.
For 2014 we are moving forward on our initiatives that deliver value to our customers community and shareholders.
These include construction of our three new generation resources on time and on budget achieving a fair and reasonable result on our 2015 general rate case and continuing to operate our system safely efficiently and effectively.
Now operator we’re ready for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we’ll take our first question from Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
Good morning Neil.
Can you talk about the regulatory strategy to get the CCGT into rates? And so you’re talking about our Carty one project.
Yes the Carty project.
So right now our forecast is to have that plant come online mid-2016.
And we have -- no we haven’t made a final decision.
What we’re thinking about is filing a split year test year with rates being effective when the project goes into service.
We haven’t made a final decision on that we’re looking at other options a lot of them will be depended on the timing of the construction of that project but that currently generally what we’re thinking about but as I said we haven’t made a final decision.
And then Jim on hydro looking pretty dry up there and checked out this forecast it looks like it’s going to raining for the next 10 days in a row.
Love it.
Embedded in your guidance is normal hydro and it seems like that’s the expectation based on forecast? Yes.
As we’ve always said on these calls these early calls is it’s too hard to call right now.
And we saw it pretty dry in January but recently we’ve had a lot of snow and the river looks very-very full right now and so right now the forecast is about 96% and it’s still too early to call it and we’ll wait till the next call to really have a better picture on hydro.
So that’s kind of where we are and we’ll just see how it plays out but right now we’ve got a lot of snow up in the mountains but we still have a few more months to go.
And I think Neil a lot of its sitting up in Canada so as they release it down the river we'll benefit from it.
Perfect.
And then in terms of whether normal demand what was it in 2013 and do you have a number in terms of how favorable weather was versus normal in 2013? So for the year-over-year it was flat on a weather adjusted basis.
Second question.
How favorable was weather versus normal in 2013? Quarter-over-quarter it amounted to quite a bit.
It’s almost $0.09.
And for the full year?  Year-over-year about $0.05 And we’ll now go to Brian Russo with Ladenburg Thalmann.
What's the average share count that you're using in the 2014 guidance? I don’t think we’re giving that at this point.
We’ve told you what shares we have today and a lot of it will depend on how we draw the equity forward.
So I think we’re still looking at options whether we draw it early or late and so that will depend on the final share count.
We are assuming that we’ll pull it all down by the end of the year so that would get us to about 84.5 million shares.
At year end.
Yes.
At year end.
Yes.
But the actual distribution will depend.
Right.
88 at the end of the year.
88 million shares.
So from a modeling perspective should we just assume the average of what's left to be drawn and add that to your year-end 2013 share count to come up with an average share count for us to use in our estimates? Is that fair? That would be fair.
Okay great and then any update on the PCAM investigation that the combined filing with Portland General and Pacific Power to tighten the dead bands.
Yes Brian we’re still working with the other utilizes trying to scope out exactly what that filing or what that request will look like.
The broader it is the more difficult it is to be able to move anything forward.
So right now all I can say we’re still working with them on trying narrow that scope.
Are you working with staff or the commission because we haven't seen any filing since like I think it's been September of 2013?  The way the process goes is all the utilities including conversations on the side with staff is trying to figure out exactly what it's looking like.
We don’t just walk in and file something and try and get a reaction at that point.
We try and do as much a front end work as possible.
Okay and I assume the midpoint of your guidance range assumes a PCAM of zero.
Yes.
Okay and then lastly the $3.9 billion of average 2015 rate base that was filed in the rate case last night can you give us any CWIP assumptions?  Well you can go on to the website and see the full rate base if that’s what you’re looking for.
Is that what you’re trying to get at? Yes exactly.
You go on the website and go to the revenue requirements estimate; you’ll see the rate base and all the components of that which is pretty detailed.
We will now go to Sarah Akers with Wells Fargo In terms of financing do you still expect the debt issuances in the second half of the year or is the timing dependent on the timing of the equity now? Well it’s going to be a combination -- the both -- before what we have is an issue associated with our ability to issue first mortgage bonds because that resulted from the Cascade Crossing right off.
And so that effectively said until that where it’s through our financials which will occur in the June timeframe we really don’t have as much bonding capacity as we would like.
So we were planning originally on issuing or pulling down on the equity forward in the first half of the year but now we’re looking at the potential that we might be able to do some other debt instruments that that could delay the pull on that equity forward.
So it really -- if you’re asking just about the first mortgage bonds so that will have to be in the later part of the year.
Okay and does guidance incorporates the possibility of delaying the equity to the back half? No it doesn’t.
Okay.
Perfect.
And then one question on dividend strategy with CapEx trailing off in 2015 and more so in 2016 and 2017 what are your thoughts in terms of the use of cash and the dividend payout ratio? You know we are committed having a competitive dividend for our shareholders as these projects come on line and we generate earnings I think the Board obviously I can’t speak for the entire Board but the Board was committed to continue to raise the dividend as we go forward.
We typically address the dividend in our May Board meeting and I would suspect if we continue on a trajectory we will move the dividend up.
I think we’ve got a payout ratio kind of ranged that we provided between 50% and 70% we’re at the low end of that now.
So I would say that we will continue to move that dividend up as we grow our earnings.
We will now go to Brian Chin with Merill Lynch  Hi.
Just a quick modeling question.
What is the tax rate being assumed in the 2014 guidance? That's it.
Well it's going to be approximately 30% plus or minus.
You know if you model the stuff the best way to model is to do your base you know net income and then you have to look at the wind generation historically that factor in the production tax credit.
The PTCs are real driver to the lower tax rate.
So we are at the marginal rate of around 40% and then you have to subtract the after tax the tax credits that we get from the wind farming.
You can look at historic averages on wind and the tax credit in 2014 is $23 per megawatt hour.
Okay so but if we look at the marginal tax rate and then back down to from the PTCs effectively at around 30% tax rate gets us within the ballpark of what [indiscernible].
That gets you in the ballpark so if you’re doing it that way and you come up about that number you got a good model that way as revenues are cross changed you want to just stick with the 30% because it isn’t right because they will change based on taxable income.
(Operator Instructions) We will now go to Mark Barnett with Morningstar.
Three questions not necessarily something directly related but regulators have gotten a little bit -- I guess a little bit louder about the Colstrip plant.
And the true economics of those plants kind of notwithstanding; couple of years down the line is there an option out there to replace power from those should there be maybe action taken to replace some for the owner and with that these to the same process that we just went through in 2013.
It's really too early to call that.
You probably saw the Puget IRP up in Washington and the decision from the commission up there to look at the Colstrip plant.
Puget is 50% owner of 1 and 2 and then they are a smaller shareholder of 3 and 4.
We are at 20% owner of Colstrip 3 and 20% owner of Colstrip 4.
So we are a kind of a minor player in those projects.
They are still very cost effective resources for the company.
We need to understand that one and two is much older than units three and four and so they are going to be probably the focus of the initial conversations.
Units three and four are still pretty cost-effective and still relatively young in their life.
Obviously there’s a lot of focus on coal especially with what’s going on in EPA with [1011D] process and greenhouse gases related to existing resources.
So we got to see how those rules unfold and what the economics tell us for those projects.
In Oregon we use an integrated resource planning process to make decisions around resources.
And right now at least we're not facing any significant capital expenditures for those projects.
So again they continue to be very cost-effective.
But as we go through time you will have to look at those issues on an annual basis and make decisions based on the economics of those projects and kind of the public policy issues that unfolds.
So and more to play out on that I think we'll see probably more focus on 1 and 2.
From my perspective I think that would be where the initial focus is but we will have to watch where the EPA regulations go.
Thanks for clearing that up.
I was thinking your interest within one and two.
That was just a confusion on my part.
One quick thing a follow-up on your questions about the equity drop it's entirely related to the funding limitations you have from the write-off there is no change in your CapEx outlay within 2014? No there is no change just a matter of timing.
[Operator Instructions].
I will now go to Maurice May with Wellington Shields.
Anyhow on your PKM the results in 2013 you said that it was 11 million above the baseline.
That means that show orders essentially absorbed $11 million of expense there right? Yes.
Okay and you have initiative that you’re pursuing with other utilities in Oregon as well as with the staff at the OPC and the purpose of this is for what? Are you looking for tighter bands or are you looking for symmetrical dead band for fairness or what exactly is your objective here? We are looking for all of the above Marty.
Again as mentioned earlier we are in conversations with the other utilities.
As I also told many of the analysts that I met with over time; this is specific or was just recently handed our PKM mechanism.
And as such to go in and ask for significant changes in that mechanism right now is a very touchy subject.
But one that we believe there are some very specific changes that I think we are all kind of agree up on.
So we’re trying to scope out exactly what that looks like and get agreement that everybody believes that we should move forward into the right docket and see if we can find some resolution.
Okay.
Is there any chance here of Oregon going through more of a national model on few adjustment clauses where you essentially don’t have asymmetrical dead bands where you have pretty much of few pass through subject to audit of course but Oregon ever go to a more normal few adjustment clause? Yes Marty this is Jim Oregon has had a long history of a sharing mechanism even way-way back in the 80s it was an 80-20 power cost adjustment mechanism.
So whether we -- the chance we never say never but the chance again to a full pass through I think are pretty small but I do think we can get to a different kind of mechanism hopefully over time that has a sharing some of the risk from $1 forward obviously based on prudency and all the other things we are still subject to.
But it’s going to take time.
I think we’ll keep working on these issues similar to what we did with [indiscernible].
We just can’t keep working on these issues and try to lay out the risks and discuss with the staff and the commission our concerns and eventually get some movement.
But I don’t think we'll get to a 100% I think that just given the history of Oregon Washington even Idaho there is some type of sharing and I believe the regulators like to see us having some skin in the game and to assure that we’re motivated as we always are to keep our cost down.
Yes okay all right.
Moving on to plan operations for 2014 what is the outlook for scheduled outages in your fossil fuel plants? Nothing special Boardman schedule for a 30 day outage its normal outage.
All the outages are included in our AUT filing and we’re pretty much on track to meet those filings.
So nothing really special going on from my perspective.
So we will bring the dry sorbent injection project online for Boardman but that’s pretty much on schedule and on budget.
Okay good enough.
And then I know you can’t predict unscheduled outages.
But 2013 was a really bad year wasn’t it? I mean you had outages unscheduled outages at three of your plants and just reassure us a little bit that that’s very unusual on what's happened in 2014 can you do that? Can’t do it necessarily but I would tell you we are committed to keeping these projects running on time.
if you look at the history of these projects Coyote Springs has had a long history of running that crack that we had in the rotor was an unusual situation that hit back and never been seen before by General Electric on those seven FAs.
So we’ve got that corrected and that unit's been just running well since we brought it back online.
Colstrip unit four as you know we don’t operate that project but that generator was kind of the original generator and things do wear out of a time as we feel like we've got that project back where it needs to be and running well.
And then Boardman was just a one-off issue and again that plant had a long since it came back online in August it’s had a continuous run cycle.
So we’ve met our commitment getting the projects back online.
And the other thing we really pride ourselves on is reliability centered maintenance to really be ahead of the curve on maintenance and making sure that we’re on top of all our procedures.
So hopefully it was just a one off thing and I think we’re set up well for this year.
And we will now go to Andrew Weisel with Macquarie Capital.
Two quick questions on the rate case first one can you elaborate a little bit more about this amortization of customer credits and kind of what they are and what the earnings impact would be? Sure.
We have three credits that we’ve got to amortize the customers and they’re all kind of over one to three years.
So we’ve got -- first of all we had [Trojan] de-commissioning fund excess balance that we want to refund back to customers.
We consider U.S.
DoD over de-commissioning.
They were supposed to take our fuel number of years ago they didn’t perform and we took the DoD to court.
We ultimately settled and got a $44 million award for prior non-performance and an additional $6 million coming for current year non-performance.
So we’re going to amortize that over three years and it’s about $17 million per year.
The second one is some state tax credits related to the Trojan Spent Fuel pool tax persuade to that project that’s about 5.5 million that we’re amortizing over one year and then we also have a BPA refund that would go back to residential small farm customers and that’s about $12 million over two years.
So in total about $29 million impact for 2015 and we propose to amortize that against a small increase in base rates and also to help minimize the impact of the new projects coming online.
Any earnings impact is that all earnings neutral for you? Yes that’s all earnings neutral.
Those are all dollars we have on the balance sheet that would get amortized.
Okay great.
Then the other question was just if you could talk a little bit more about the decision on the wind farm embedding that in the rate case as opposed to using the renewal adjustment cost.
I know you’ve gone back and forth just the final decision.
So just a couple of things there we decided first of all the rack will go into place during the time the project comes online because they’ll come on in various as each string or each line of turbines comes online we would put that into service so we could start generating production tax credits and that go through the rack the renewable adjustment cost mechanism as each stream comes online until the project fully goes operational.
Our plan was that excuse me our plan is that putting the project in customer prices immediately when the project’s completed reduces the size of the deferral and therefore minimizes that catch up if you will in the future years so it doesn’t mean we couldn’t go use the rack for the entire period of 2014 but our recommendation to the commission would be to change rates immediately rather than run the deferral for the entire year.
So that’s our thinking right now if the commissions and staff rather say no we want you to wait till 2016 then we can run the rack for all of 2015 but then we’ll build up a deferral which would then have to amortized.
And the strings start coming online when?  Probably later in 2014.
And we will now go to Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Had a quick question on a clarification around the equity.
At the midpoint of guidance was that an assumption of issuing your equity ratably through the year.
Paul we’re assuming that we’re going to issue it in the first half of the year.
All of it?  Yes.
And yes we’ll go ahead and go to Andrew Levi with Avon Capital.
Hey good morning guys.
Just kind of a longer look type of question so as you get out to like ’16 and ’17 and these plants all come online and you get through the rate process do you think you guys have a lot of free cash flow after dividends and could you possibly talk what your thoughts are on that is something that you’d ramp up the dividends have opportunities for stock buyback or there’re other longer term projects after the that you may want to spend the money on and not have to issue as much equity as you did for these projects.
So as you look beyond these three projects we will be going through a very detailed integrated resource planning process starting probably next year to start looking at a couple of things number one is the Boardman replacement our Boardman coal plant will close down in 2020 at the end of 2020 and we’re going to have to make some decision on what’s the right set of resources to replace that base flow resource so that’s one decision and we would likely go through the same process we did before which is do an RFP and we would likely put in our self-filled option which would be Carty 2 if gas determines to be the least cost resource.
We also have the next tranche of renewable resources we need to add to get to 25% the next test is 20% in 2020 and we probably have a little bit of time on getting that resource online but that’s going to look like another Tucannon River wind farm or something like that in the renewable space.
So there’s still a couple of projects out there that we need to look at to invest in the company and meet our customers’ needs but those will all be the subject of the integrated resource plan that will start starting next year.
So those are the two things obviously if those projects turn into capital projects for the company then we would use and deploy our cash flow to finance those projects.
If for some reason we’re not the ultimate builder of those projects and as always we want to optimize our capital structure around the 50% debt 50% equity looking at increasing dividends to address that and you know potentially if necessary buy back stock but it’s really too early to make a call on that.
We got a lot of process ahead of us and we’ll get a better sense of that once we get to the next integrated resource plan.
And if you were successful on those two potential longer term projects when would the spend begin on those you know…  Well probably not till ’19 takes about 2.5-3 years to get a gas project up though we would propose probably Carty 2 as a very good base flow gas resource if that’s the least cost lowest risk option.
Probably a two year construction cycle the wind farm again probably in the ’19 timeframe we probably don’t need that project up till 2021 or the end of 2020 as the soonest but probably in that timeframe so it’s a little bit of period in 2018 and ’19 where we might be generating some cash flow but we’re also updating some of our technology systems we’re looking at replacing our customer information system that’s about over a $100 million project that we’re making progress on I think what we would do is to continue to build the equity structure address the dividends to get them competitive and look at the future for future capital expenditures.
So I guess your ’16 and ’17 Cap Ex forecast could go up I guess they don’t include these upgrades to your customer service [indiscernible] ….
We have not those in our forecast right now.
It is in the discussion of that is in our rate case we’ve been working closely with the commissioners and the staff on our needs to replace our aging billing system and as we mentioned that we’re also doing some technology upgrades so that is a big investment and we really need to get our regulators comfortable with that path so far they’ve been in agreement that we need to replace our billing system and have been helping us fund that project in the early stages.
We’d likely make the decision on the billing system later this year.
So basically we get more rate based growth which hopefully turns into earnings growth or we return cash to shareholders through either dividends share buyback or both…  And again we’re going to optimize our capital structure seeing as our target 50% debt 50% equity and use all the tools available to do that.
And then the last question is as you get to ’16 or ’17 you know you have this regulatory lag kind of on some fixed expenses and we’ve discussed this before on these conference calls where that number is fairly fixed is my understanding.
So you any number you want to throw out may not want you but where how much we can reduce lag or you can reduce lag by ’16 or ’17 relative to where it is today.
You’re talking about the difference between allowed ROE and actual ROE.
Yes my understanding is that the cost that you’re no recovering are fairly fixed so as your rate base grows and you have recovery of that that number should shrink.
Yes and as we grow on rate base because that’s a very fixed amount we think by the end of that period we’re going to be somewhere in the 50-65 basis points.
Of lag?  Of lag yes.
And it appears there are no further questions at this time Mr.
Piro I’d like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you we appreciate your interest in Portland General Electric and invite you to join us when we report our first quarter 2014 results in late April.
Thanks a lot and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Portland General Electric Company First Quarter 2014 Earning Results Conference Call.
Today is Tuesday April 29 2014.
This call is being recorded and as such all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions).
For opening remarks I would like to turn the conference over to Portland General Electric's Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Bill Valach.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Jessica and good morning to everyone.
We're very pleased that you are able to join us today.
And before we begin our discussion this morning I would like to remind you that we have prepared a presentation to supplement our discussion which we will be referencing throughout the call.
And the slides we posted on our website this morning at portlandgeneral.com.
Referring to slide 2 I’d also like to make our customary statements regarding Portland General Electric’s written and oral disclosure and commentary that there will be statements in this call that are not based on historical facts and as such constitute forward-looking statements under current laws.
These statements are subject to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made today.
For a description of some of the factors that may occur that could cause such differences the Company we request that you read our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
Portland General Electric’s first quarter earnings were released via our earnings press release and our Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2014 before the market opened today and our release is available at our website portlandgeneral.com.
The company undertakes no obligations to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise and this Safe Harbor statement should be incorporated as part with any transcript of this call.
Moving to slide 3 leading our discussion today are Jim Piro President and CEO; and Jim Lobdell Senior Vice President of Finance CFO and Treasurer.
Jim Piro will begin today’s presentation by providing an update on our operational performance our service area economy our growth initiatives and finally our regulatory strategy.
Then he will turn the call over to Jim Lobdell who will provide more detail around our first quarter’s results and discuss our outlook for the full year of 2014.
Following these prepared remarks we will then open our lines up and welcome your questions.
Now it’s my pleasure to turn the call over to Jim Piro.
Jim? Thanks Bill.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Welcome to Portland General Electric’s first quarter earnings call.
As presented on slide 4 we recorded net income of $58 million or $0.73 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2014 compared with a net income of $49 million or $0.65 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2013.
We are seeing strong performance across the company this year.
Construction of our three new generating resources is proceeding on time and on budget.
We have a clear regulatory strategy in place to recover our capital investment.
And our continued focus on operational performance is delivering benefits for our customers and our shareholders.
Now for an operational update on slide 5.
For the first quarter our generating plants operated efficiently with PGE generation availability at 95%.
We continue to maintain top quartile system reliability metrics and our national rankings for customer satisfaction in our top quartile for residential and top decile for general business and key customers.
In 2014 we continued to focus on safe and efficient operations through leveraging new technology and refining business processes.
We are making progress with our transmission and distribution transformation project which includes replacing our work and asset management systems and preparing for the replacement of our mapping and outage management system as well.
These upgrades will allow us to operate more efficiently and improve how we meet our customers’ needs.
Now for an update on the economy and our customers.
Turning to slide 6 our operating area continues to show positive signs of economic growth and new development.
In particular we are seeing higher levels of new connects strong multifamily construction continued expansion of high tech and a new Oregon Health and Science University building which is slated to open this fall.
Also Portland continues to attract software companies that have created additional demand for office space in an already tight commercial real estate market.
Employment indicators also continued to be positive.
Oregon created 7 500 new jobs in March the highest single month since November 2005.
The unemployment rate in our core operating area was 6.2% in March well below the national average and down from 7.2% a year ago.
Over the last year employment growth has been centered in the construction leisure and hospitality and manufacturing which includes food transpiration and computers and electronics.
Our forecast for weather normalized road growth is approximately 1% over 2013 weather-adjusted results when excluding one large paper customer.
This forecast is net of approximately 1.5% of energy efficiency which we continue to see throughout our service area.
When including the large paper company which is reducing projection this year to implement a more efficient more manufacturing process our load forecast is approximately flat.
However this reduction has negligible margin impact since the customer is primarily on daily pricing.
Now let me update you on the construction of our new generating resources which were selected in 2013 through a competitive RFP process based on lease costs lease risk standards.
Slide 7 provides detail on Port Westward Unit 2 our 220 megawatt natural gas capacity plant being built next to our existing Port Westward plant in Clatskanie Oregon.
The project is progressing smoothly with recent work on the central core building the exhaust systems and the erection of the cooling tower.
With the recent delivery of the 12th engine all major equipment is now on site and we expect the plant to be operational in the first quarter of 2015.
Total capital costs are estimated at $300 million excluding AFDC.
Slide 8 includes details on Tucannon River Wind Farm a 267 megawatt wind farm located on 20 000 acres in South Eastern Washington.
Progress is continuing at the site including road design and construction pouring concrete foundations for towers and construction of the O&amp;M building and the substation.
As we disclosed on March 31 we now expect Tucannon River Wind Farm to be on line between December of this year and the end of the first quarter of 2015.
Total capital costs are estimated at $500 million excluding AFDC.
Lastly slide 9 summarizes the Carty Generation Station a 440 megawatt baseload natural gas plant that is being constructed next to our existing Broadman plant.
Land has been leveled at the site and we have started foundation work for the gas turbine.
We will continue with other foundations over the next few months as we prepare to receive the heat recovery steam generator in the third quarter and the gas in steam turbines early next year.
The plant is expected to be operational in mid 2016 with the total capital cost estimated at $450 million excluding AFDC.
Slide 10 provides the summary of the company’s five year capital expenditure forecast.
The new generation projects are expected to result in an average rate base increase of $1.2 billion.
This growth along with the base business capital expenditures should meet to a rate base of approximately $4.5 billion in 2017.
Now for a regulatory update on slide 11.
In February we filed a new general rate case with the 2015 test year requesting an overall revenue increase of $81 million based on the 10% ROE a capital structure of 50% debt and 50% equity and rate base of $3.9 billion.
The request includes a small increase in base business cost which would be more than offset by several customer credits that we proposed to begin amortizing in 2015.
The primary focus of this general rate case is cost recovery of Port Westward Unit 2 and Tucannon River Wind Farm.
We are requesting customer price changes at the time these resources go on line.
Together these projects represent a net incremental revenue requirement increase of $98 million expected to be effective in the first quarter of 2015.
The general rate case is currently in the discovery stage as we respond to data request from OPUC and other interveners.
In late May we will participate in settlement conferences with intervener testimony following in June.
We anticipate that the Commission will issue a final order in mid-December.
If the request is approved the average overall price increase for all components net of customer credits would be 4.6%.
In addition on March 31st we filed a renewable adjustment clause or RAC to defer the next incremental revenue requirements for Tucannon River Wind Farm in the event that the project comes on line in December 14.
This mechanism allows us to mitigate regulatory lag between the project on line date and the date of customer price changes.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Jim Lobdell who will discuss our financial results for the first quarter and update our forecast for the remainder of 2014.
Jim? Thank you Jim.
Turning to slide 12 as Jim mentioned for the first quarter of 2014 we recorded net income of $58 million or $0.73 per diluted share compared to net income of $49 million or $0.65 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2013.
The increase in net income was closer alignment of revenues in operating expenses as authorized in the 2014 general rate case and an increase in the allowance for funds used during construction for the three new generating resources.
In addition the increase in earnings per share was slightly offset by an increase in the average shares outstanding quarter-over-quarter as a result of a total issuance of 2.4 million shares in June and August in connection with our public offering in 2013.
Moving slide 13 total revenues for the first quarter of 2014 increased $20 million to $493 million driven by the price increase on January 1.
This impact was partially offset by a $7 million decrease related lower energy deliveries a 2.5% decline in residential energy deliveries accounts for the majority of the revenue decrease.
However since the decline was not weather related our decoupling mechanism enabled us to recover most of the lost margin.
Purchase power and fuel expense decreased $8 million quarter-over-quarter driven by a decline in total system load a slight decrease in the average variable power costs per megawatt hour.
Below normal hydro conditions early in this year turned around a late and we're forecasted to be at or slightly above normal.
For the first quarter of 2014 net variable power costs were $3 million below the annual power cost update [to our] baseline compared to $1 million below the baseline for the first quarter of last year.
PGE’s sources of generation were comparable quarter-over-quarter.
Energy received from PGE’s owned and contracted hydro resources increased 4% while energy received by PGE’s owned wind resources decreased 11%.
Coal generation was slightly down as Colstrip Unit 4 was still offline during most of January 2014.
Moving on to slide 14 production distribution and administrative costs totaled $108 million for the first quarter of 2014 $3 million higher than a year ago.
This increase was largely due to increased storm and service restoration costs and higher operations expense due to an increase in our ownership of the Boardman coal plant of 65% to 80% as of December 31 2013.
Overall we are on track to be within our full year operations and maintenance forecast of $480 million to $500 million.
Depreciation and amortization expense increased $13 million quarter-over-quarter driven primarily by two factors; $5 million related to overall increase in capital additions and $8 million related to the timing of the deferral amortization of costs of four capital projects.
Interest expense was comparable quarter-over-quarter a $3 million increase from a higher average balance of long-term debt outstanding was entirely offset by an increase in AFDC from borrowed funds.
Other income net increased $2 million quarter-over-quarter.
The $4 million AFDC from equity funds was partially offset by a decrease in earnings on our non-qualified benefit plan trust assets.
Lastly income taxes increased $3 million quarter-over-quarter.
In addition to higher expected taxable income in 2014 this increase was driven by a decrease in production tax credit.
Turing to slide 15.
We continue to maintain a solid balance sheet including adequate liquidity in investment grade credit ratings.
As of March 31 2014 we had $764 million in cash and available credit and a common equity ratio of 49.2%.
Total capital expenditures for the first quarter of 2014 were $185 million including $110 million for the three new generating resources.
On our fourth quarter earnings call in February we disclosed that while our guidance was based on issuing the remaining 10.4 million shares under the equity forward sale agreement in the first half of 2014 we're also exploring alternative financing opportunities.
As a results we're now pursuing a financing plan under which we delay equity issuances under the equity forward sale agreement until the first half of 2015.
In May we expect to entering to an 18 months unsecured loan agreement to borrow approximately $305 million.
We also anticipate executing a bond purchase agreement to issue approximately $280 million of First Mortgage Bonds with draws delayed to the second half of 2014.
In financings or subject to receiving OPUC approvals increased our authority to issue long-term debt by $300 million to a total of up to $700 million.
This revise financing plan allows us to finance our new generating resources in a more cost effective way.
Moving to slide 16.
We are increasing our full year 2014 earnings guidance by $0.05 to $2.05 to $2.20 diluted shares driven by the delay of issuing equity under the forward sale agreement.
Our other guidance assumption remains largely unchanged is detailed on the slide.
Back to you Jim.
Thanks.
In 2014 we are focused on our initiatives that deliver value to our customers and our shareholders including completion construction of our three new generating resources on time and on budget achieving fair and reasonable results in our 2015 general rate case and continually operating our systems efficiently rate and effectively.
Now operator we are ready for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question will come from Lauren Duke with Deutsche Bank.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Lauren.
Good morning Lauren.
Can you talk a little bit about what happened with residential sales you mentioned the pay per customer kind of hurting your industrial sales but not hurting the margin but what was what did you see on the residential side in the quarter and what makes you feel more comfortable about the rest of the year? Yes.
Lauren as we look at the residential customers it is cyclical it is weather adjusted.
You find that the building cycles that are going on out there are delaying so we are seeing little bit less because of that.
Energy efficiency continues to been influenced on seeing those load.
But we are continuing to see an increase in the new connect especially as we look at multi family.
I was actually really surprised that the number of new connection multifamily perspective.
So you got to keep in mind that we are decoupled associated with residential load and we're still seeing some relative growth associated with it.
But as we've always pointed out in our earnings guidance overall from a load perspective we're not expecting much to come out of residential but the majority is going to come out of the commercial and the industrial sectors.
Okay thanks.
And then lastly can you just update us on some of the more generic proceedings at the Oregon PUC on pension and then the PCAM mechanism that you guys and PacifiCorp have been supporting? Yes I can do that.
On the pension docket not a lot has happened right now regarding that we've got some pre-hearing briefs that are due later this month and then some cross examination.
So there is still a bit to be seen.
We've got to keep in mind there is multiple utilities that are involved in that docket.
I have to say we don't always see everything in the same way.
And regarding the PCAM we had asked the Commission about opening up a docket at some earned investigations regarding PCAM.
And when we first approach that we did it from the perspective of looking at the entire mechanism.
And talking to the stakeholders and the process we have subsequently asked to narrow that discussion at this particular point in time to just looking at compliance associated with the RPS standards in the state and stick to our ability to [required process] of meeting that standard.
So more to come as far as what's going on there.
[We have just done a] workshop last month in regard to it as well.
But right now there is no schedule set.
Do you think we could see resolution in either of those cases in 2014 or should we be thinking of that more of a 2015 issue?  I would to be honest with [Lauren] I’d say that’s more at a 2015 at this particular point in time given the fact that there is no schedule set for it.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Lauren.
And our next question will come from Neil Mehta from Goldman Sachs.
Good morning Neil.
Hey Neil.
Hey this might be early here but can you talk through the way you’re thinking about capital allocation.
You are going to start throwing off significant free cash flow in 2015 and that’s going to accelerate in 2016.
So what are the different options you have in terms of allocating that excess cash?  Good question Neil.
As we look through this cycle we’ll finish Carty in the 2016 timeframe we will be starting the next another IRP integrated resource planning process probably starting late this year and going into next year that really deal with a couple of issues one is the replacement of Broadman which retires in 2020.
We have the next 5% renewal portfolio standard requirement that hits us around 2020 to 2021.
We are also looking at having to replace our billing system and we’re working very closely with the commission on getting kind of alignment around that replacement of that billing system which is getting over 12 years old.
So there is a number of projects still ahead of us to look at.
Capacity is becoming more gearing the regions so we may need to add additional capacity resources.
So those are all things that are on our radar screen at this point.
Obviously we have to go through the process go through the integrated resource plan like we did before develop an action plan like we have to do in RFP.
But I think we have good options to potentially compete in those RFPs and we’ll just have to play it out.
So I think we're still committed to meeting our customers’ energy needs with firm long-term resources that control the cost and reduce volatility.
We will have to go through the process; there will be a fair amount of conversation on how we replace Boardman that’s over 400 megawatts for us on our share event.
So it’s a big slog of energy that we are going have to look at replacing.
So those are the options ahead of us so those would probably happen in the 2018 to 2021 timeframe.
So I think as we look ahead there is places where we can deploy capital that will add value for both our customers and our shareholders.
Got it.
And in the guidance you're still assuming normal hydro conditions.
So can you talk about where you are versus normal in terms of the hydro at the rivers and sites that matter to you and what that could mean relative to the PCAM?  Yes Neil on the (inaudible) as you know the river forecast center it is 110 everybody was pointing out to us earlier in the year how that number was way down especially down at the lower end of the system where we started out in January at 80% and right now we are at about 104% because of miracle March.
But again the mid-Columbia River is looking very healthy for the year.
Clackamas is around 91% it’s looking pretty good and then the Deschutes is almost up to 100% it’s a 97%.
We as far as our generation our capability to take energy out of those river systems everything looks good we do have a bit of a reduction coming out of the mid-Columbia because of the – facility.
So we are down a little bit there but otherwise everything else looks pretty healthy.
And one thing you have to watch now is that we got a pretty snow pack; the question is how does that snow pack come off? We were actually seeing snow yesterday.
So what we like to see is a very slow warming so that that shows up in July and August but if you get a very heavy heat way over something it’s brings about quicker that obviously affects energy prices and the value that we get on these systems.
So now we’re just watching to see how to run off comes up which can affect the value of that.
Makes sense and last question is on AFDC.
Embedded in guidance how much AFDC is in there this year? And can you talk about the trajectory post 2014 as assets come into service?  Yes Neil we typically don't provide any guidance around AFDC but if you could just think about the amount of capital that we've got to add if you look at the CapEx structure or the CapEx table that we have provided that kind of gives you some guidance.
And if you have to look inside AFDC then it’s pretty much one-thirds two-thirds equity.
So that's all we can provide you at this bigger point in time.
The key is that these payments move around all over the place and we've seen a bit of that.
So that's why we particularly don't provide any type guidance.
All right thanks guys.
Yes thanks Neil.
(Operator Instructions).
We'll now go to Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc.
Good morning.
Good morning Paul.
Can you just review what type of assumption is evolved around the drawdown of the equity originally first half of ‘14 correct?  Yes.
Go ahead.
At the year-end call you said that you might be able to delay that for the second half of '14?  Yes.
What we've got going on there is if you recall back to 2013 we had the write-off of the Cascade Crossing investment which reduced our bonding capability.
And so as a result of that we decided that we were going to pull down the equity forward in the first half of 2014 and then go to the first mortgage bond market in the second half of 2014.
Based on the factor that question Neil was asking movement of cash flows or CapEx expenditures we’ve now been able to look at it and say there is a more cost effective way to finance these resources and mitigate some of our interest rate risk at the same time by going out and doing a unsecured bank loan in the first half of 2014.
It looks like now is instead of doing the equity -- we are actually going to push that out to the first half of ‘15 in order to be able to provide the financing associated with the capital expenditures for ‘14 we’ll do the bank loan in the first half of the year first mortgage bonds in the second half.
And then once we pull down on net equity forward in ‘15 we’ll use that to pay off the bank loan.
Hopefully that gives you the detail you’re looking for? You said there will be no new equity issue in ‘14? No we’ve got all the equity that we need under that equity forward agreement.
I just have to be a little more accretive than a nickel particularly with the depreciation drop that you outlined are there other offsets? Not that I’m aware of not in my math.
There would be lower AFDC because of the fact that the interest cost associated with the bank line are going to be lower than what we would otherwise if incurred but that’s not a nickel.
And then when this quarter normal or was it particularly strong last year what were the dynamics? Well overall last year wind turned out to be pretty much on target as far as the volume.
But the issue was the same thing that we're seeing this year is the wind is just really not blowing at the right time.
So we ended up getting power out of the wind farms at the lower cost hours versus the higher priced hours that we expected.
Most have lower the rents… Some were lower than that; we're not that much down.
We're 11% lower this year on the wind.
That's right.
So we're down on wind a little bit in the first quarter and obviously it turns out the rest of the year.
And then just after you filed your rate case was there any notable public reaction or anything in the press? No not really.
I think when we went out and talked to customers and we did some of the survey work before we filed it I think given that this was around adding new resources to meet our customers’ need.
And having two significant resources one the renewable resource plus the capacity resource to really support the wind resources.
I think customers understand that new resources are going to cost a little bit more and 4.6% increase was not very large considering we're adding two new large resources to our portfolio.
So I think overall the reaction has been very almost minimal in terms of customers’ reaction; obviously we don't like to raise prices.
It was nice having the credit to offset that price increase to minimize the impact.
So no we haven't had much reaction at all.
Great thank you very much.
We'll now to go Brian Russo from Ladenburg Thalmann.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Brian.
Could you just remind us what the effective tax is in the 2014 guidance? The effective tax rate in the guidance is about 25%.
I'm giving a range of around 25% to 30% is what’s in there.
Okay great.
And in terms of PCAM and how the capacity factors and timing of dispatch per wind was there any negative impact on the PCAM due to the variability of wind in the first quarter?  Yes because we were below our AUT filings in terms of what we expected.
So it goes to the calculation in terms of where we are but we're still within the deadband I think is where we still are.
We are still in the deadband.
Yes.
So we're still in the deadband but we do -- that does affect the calculation and as we are below our AUT filing now they would have a negative effect on the results.
Is there any way to isolate kind of the impact on that I’m just trying to get a sense of the request for investigation into the PCAM on the wind cost and what type of financial impact a favorable decision could actually have?  Well a couple of things there Brian.
First of all in last rate case we did adjust the forecast for wind and went to an updated forecast using some historic average as well as the forecast from what we are seeing from the project.
We would hopefully continue doing that showing that forecast up overtime.
So there might be a lag effect of that.
And what we are asking for in the rate case and the PCAM related to the wind resources to track it directly.
Now I think that would be on a forward basis it probably wouldn’t change this year’s results.
This year would probably go through the PCAM but it would affect 2015 if we were to get this mechanism.
And so it would be a better match I think argument is it’s kind of go through the results here in the AUT filing or the actual setting of prices.
But to do it on an actual basis in the year would be a better matching of both good results.
So I don’t think anything this year but it might affect 2015 in terms of getting better alignment around our generation and our cost.
Yes.
The other thing I will add to that Brian is that last year the lost value of energy because of [bullet] wrong time was about $4 million if I remember correctly.
So we would hope in the future if this mechanism was in place we would be able to recapture that and then getting the adjustments in the production tax credit as Jim pointed out.
Okay great.
And then lastly it just seems with the delay and the settlement of the forward shares in addition to $5 million of lower D&amp;A that there would be a little more upside sensitivity to the midpoint of your guidance.
I’m just wondering are you guys just being conservative because you’re only one quarter into the year or are there any offsets that weren’t noticeable by us?  There is the D&amp;A has nothing to do with actually operations it’s actually just kind of a geographical change inside the financial statements.
And no I don’t know of any other offsets other than what we have mentioned already.
Okay thank you very much.
Thanks Brian.
Our next question comes from Brian Chin from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Good morning Brian.
Good morning Brian.
Good morning thanks for taking my question.
Just a general question on the IRP.
If I understand the 2013 IRP you’ll likely get the acknowledgment from the OPUC sometime around September maybe a little after September of this year.
In your slide deck comments you've stated while usually the Commission gives considerable weight to actions that are consistent with the acknowledged IRP is there sort of like a hard line there where the Commission will likely give considerable weight to the IRP before it even acknowledges it or is there some sort of defining event this September 2014 acknowledgement is that a defining event where we might get a lot more commission towards formal approvals or better waiting of the outlook for different projects following the acknowledgement of this IRP?  So this new IRP doesn't really relates to the last IRP in the sense that the last IRP addressed the need for the new resources which we went forward and did an RFP on and we're now under construction.
So that whole cycle is part of that action plan which really goes back to 2009 when we filed that integrated resource plan.
So that's all been completed it will be a topic of the rate case that we currently before the Commission on prudency.
But we believe that Commission’s order and acknowledgment represents a high standard for that prudency review.
And the fact that we did an RFP and the fact that we had independent evaluator watching know over the process we feel pretty good about that entire process.
This latest IRP that we filed does not have many resource actions continues our commitment to energy efficiency to demand response program to more distributed generation and a commitment to do a lot of studies in preparation for the next IRP that is beyond this one.
So the commission will hopefully reach decision later this year September we hope on acknowledging the action plan that’s in that IRP but it's pretty minimal in terms of financial impacts or opportunities for the company it's really continuing our commitment to energy efficiency and the things I mentioned and doing the studies.
And so we will take that acknowledgement as guidance as we prepare for the next IRP which we will start working on later this year and file probably in the 2015 timeframe.
That IRP will have a lot of potential resource actions related to both new renewable resources and addressing the shutdown of Boardman which will occur at the end of 2020.
So that’s kind of where we are in the cycle.
So this is -- we don’t expect a lot of as Commission orders we do expect them to acknowledge the action plan and comment on the studies we are doing but I don’t think it has any -- there is no major resource procedures in this IRP that is currently default at Commission is that helpful? Okay.
Yes it is and that makes a lot of sense.
I guess as we look forward to the next draft IRP that you will be filing any sort of lessons learned from the last RFP process? I mean obviously there is a little bit of hiccup there on different stakeholders are doing different things in terms of the outcome and you guys defended your position very well.
Does that give us any lessons in terms of how the company should conduct future RFP processes to make the process more [stable]? No we actually feel really good about the RFP process that we conducted.
I think it was an open and transparent process.
If you read the independent evaluator’s report I think he showed that the company was very fair in its evaluation and it was a very balanced approach.
So I feel like we did everything right and the results prove themselves out to the process.
There is always going to be disappointed bidders but our job is to make sure that we run a process that’s open and transparent and that we have someone independently observing.
So I think that’s what we learned through the entire process that we shift all the process because it is -- gives us creditability of what we are trying to do and make sure that we deliver the least cost lowest risk project for our customers.
So we probably follow the same process again.
Very good thank you very much.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
We will now go to Andrew Weisel from Macquarie Capital.
Thanks good morning guys.
Good morning Andrew.
I want to go back to the financing real quickly.
In terms of the interest expense from the bank loan in the First Mortgage what sort of ballpark rates that you are assuming? We're expecting kind of short term rates as you look at the bank loans.
So it's probably around 1%.
In the First Mortgage bonds you're probably looking at probably around the 4.5% range.
Okay.
And you said the bank loan you plan to repay about a year from now when you settle the equity is that right? Exactly.
Okay great.
My next question is the change to the CapEx plan for Carty.
What was the reason for reducing or postponing I guess a lot of the spend from this year to next year? Yes Andrew I have to get back to you.
I mean we have slight shift in payments the things are transpiring at the project but nothing material or nothing outside of our projected plan.
Yes.
We're still pretty much on budget and on schedule.
There was a shift of about $40 million or $50 million from year to year nothing specific you can call out now? No.
Well let’s take a look at it and get back.
Okay great.
And then just my last question after you increased your ownership of Boardman I'm a little bit surprised that the generation mix was basically flat year-over-year.
Any high-level thing you can call out why coal wasn't a bigger share of the sources of power? Well in the first quarter we done a coal strip unit 4 was down for the first month in January.
So that might have offset the increase in Boardman.
So that's probably why I seen about the same.
That make sense.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Andrew.
And we'll now go to Andy Levi from Avon Capital Advisors.
Good morning Andy.
Good morning Andy.
Good morning guys.
How are you doing? Great.
Thanks.
It seems you might echo here.
Just on the financing that you did what are the benefits to customers I believe there is some? So we haven’t done it yet we are still getting approval just to be clear but the bottom-line as we reduce our AFDC on the projects which minimizes the cost the overall rate base additions to our customers.
So to be slightly lower it’s a benefit basically I have lower interest expense that run through AFDC.
Okay.
So there should be some type of rate benefit.
The benefit there keeps our cost low and keeps our rate base impactful and shows that we are being prudent and trying to take actions to keep cost down for customers which is why we’ve always been a real supporter of owning these projects because we make our estimates in the projects and then things turnout that -- turnout to be even better than what we expected.
One of our analyses assumes average cost a long term cost of capital and things like that.
We’ve had a low interest rate environment we’ve been able to take advantage of that.
For example on Tucannon River Wind Farm there was a huge tax reduction for sales tax what you been able to take advantage and deliver to customers and so there is things that come on our way on these projects that were able to take advantage of and pass that benefit on the customers and keep their prices lower.
So those of things we all try to do do improve the impacts or reduce the impacts for our customers.
Great.
And then just two more questions.
What was the earnings impact if there was anything significant on just the one month’s additional average to coal strip?  It was 1.5 million of replacement power cost.
And that’s pre-tax right?  Yes.
All right.
Yes.
And then finally just when do you think the board should kind of take a look at the dividend relative to your construction program?  So what we do in the company is each May in our May annual meeting we do a dividend review and look at our dividends and relative to our earnings the Board is committed to being competitive with the dividend.
There is restriction in the equity forward agreement right now that doesn’t allow us to change it more than what we have changed it historically.
I would say the Board is committed to growing the dividend and as we deliver earnings growth we want to grow that dividend to reward our shareholders for being part of this opportunity.
So we will do that.
This year I would not expect anything out of the ordinary other than what we have been historic but we are -- I would tell you the Board is very interested in rewarding our shareholders and having that dividend grow as we grow our earnings and add value to both our customers and our shareholders.
So the dividend -- I’m sorry the equity forward has to be completely drawn down before the policy can change? Is that…  Yes.
We can make historic increases based on our historic actions but nothing outside of that.
Okay.
And then when will -- in your forecast or what you’ve articulated when will the forward be completely drawn down is that at the beginning of next year?  It will be completely drawn down by June of next of year we had a two year window on it.
Okay.
So Jim so you say typically in May but you may not be drawn down until the end of June.
Is it possible or should we not think this way that as your two plants your peaker comes online and your wind plant comes online that we may see a deviation to the May timeframe on dividend consideration considering that your June timeframe on drawing down the forward or we have to wait till May of 2016?  No I will look at next year my guess is we’ll probably fully draw that by the time we make a dividend decision.
As we said by June that’s the requirement under the agreement given our capital needs and our spend it’s going to be close but I think we'll take that all in the consideration as we make that decision.
Okay.
So…  So I can't handicap it for you but I think we'll generally try to address that and be in a place where we can address the dividend in May of next year.
Okay.
So it's possible that you could have drawdown everything by the time the dividend decision comes up?  Yes.
Okay cool.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Have a nice day.
And it appears there are no further questions.
I'll turn the conference back over to Jim Piro for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you again.
We appreciate your interest in Portland General Electric and invite you to join us when we report our second quarter 2014 results in late July.
Thanks a lot and have a great day.
This does conclude our presentation for today.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the Portland General Electric Company’s Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today is Tuesday July 29 2014.
This call is being recorded and as such all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
For opening remarks I would like to turn the conference over to Portland General Electric’s Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Bill Valach.
Please go ahead sir.
Well thank you Chenille and good morning to everyone.
Before we start I’d like to first announce that Lucia Dempsey our Investor Relations Analyst that this is her last earnings call.
This fall she is heading to work on her MBA program at the University of Virginia.
She’s done really a great job for us in the Investor Relations area and we just want to thank her for her work over the last three years wish her well.
And to kick off Lucia is going to read and provide our Safe Harbor statements so Lucia please? Thank you Bill and good morning everyone.
I’m pleased that you’re able to join us today.
Before we begin our discussion this morning I’d like to remind you that we have prepared a presentation to supplement our discussion which we’ll be referencing throughout the call.
The slides are also available on our website at investors.portlandgeneral.com.
Referring to slide two I’d also like to make our customary statements regarding Portland General Electric’s written and oral disclosures and commentary.
There will be statements in this call that are not based on historical facts and as such constitute forward-looking statements under current law.
These statements are subject to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made today.
For a description of some of the factors that may occur that could cause such differences the company requests that you read our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
Portland General Electric’s second quarter earnings were released via our earnings press release and the Form 10-Q before the market opened today and the release is available at portlandgeneral.com.
The company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
These Safe Harbor statements should be incorporated as part of any transcript on this call.
As shown on slide three leading our discussion today are Jim Piro President and CEO and Jim Lobdell Senior Vice President of Finance CFO and Treasurer.
Jim Piro will begin today’s presentation by providing an update on our operational performance outlook for 2014 service area economy and strategic initiatives.
Then Jim Lobdell will provide more detail around the quarter results and discuss our 2015 general rate case.
Following these prepared remarks we will open the lines for your questions.
Now it’s my pleasure to turn the call over to Jim Piro.
Thank you Lucia.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Welcome to Portland General Electric’s second quarter earnings call.
As presented on slide four we recorded net income of $35 million or $0.43 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2014 compared with a net loss of $22 million or $0.29 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2013.
PGE continues to demonstrate strong operational performance across the company in 2014.
Construction of our three new generating resources is proceeding on time and on budget.
Our 2015 general rate case is progressing on schedule and we are affirming our full year 2014 earnings guidance of $2.05 to $2.20 per diluted share.
Now for an operational update on slide five.
The first half of this year our generating plants operated as planned with PGE’s generation availability at 89%.
We continued to maintain top quartile system reliability metrics and our national rankings for customer satisfaction are top quartile for residential customers along with top decile for general business and key customers.
Last week we announced that we have begun exchanging 70 000 residential meters in our service area that do not meet PGE’s safety standards.
Work is to be completed by the end of October and we currently expect to capitalize the majority of the replacement cost.
As recently reported by the Department of Energy’s National Renewable Energy Laboratory PGE’s renewal book program in 2013 enrolled more customers and sold more green power than any of the utility program in the nation.
We’re proud of our commitment to generating renewable energy and providing our customers with sustainable power options.
In 2014 we continue to focus on safe and efficient operations to leveraging new technology and refining our business processes.
We are preparing for the implementation phase of our transmission and distribution transformation project which includes deployment of the Maximo work management system across our distribution line operations.
Now for an update on the economy and our customers.
Turning to slide six.
Our operating area continues to show signs of economic growth and new development.
In particular our customer count is up 1% new connects are 25% year-over-year and we continue to see expansion in multi-family construction and high-tech.
Employment indicators also continue to be positive.
Oregon’s unemployment rate was 6.8% in June unchanged since February and below the unemployment rate of 7.8% a year ago.
Unemployment in Oregon has remained below the 7% mark for five consecutive months and is the lowest since August 2008.
As recently reported by the Bureau of Economic Analysis Oregon’s real GDP grew 2.7% in 2013 driven by the high-tech’s sector’s contribution to the state output.
The unemployment rate in our service area has dropped to 6% from 6.7% a year ago and employment in our service area grew at an annualized rate of 2.4% this past quarter when compared to a year ago.
As a result of these positive signs we are maintaining our forecast for weather adjusted load growth of approximately 1% over 2013 weather adjusted results which excludes our one large paper customer.
This forecast is net of approximately 1.5% of energy efficiency based on the energy trust of Oregon’s projected programmatic efficiency savings for 2014.
Now let me update you on our construction of our new generating resources.
Through June 30th we have invested $755 million excluding AFDC in these resources and I’m pleased to report that all three projects continue to be on time and on budget.
Slide seven provides a detail on Port Westward Unit 2 a 220 megawatt natural gas fuel capacity plant under construction next to our existing port Westward plant in Clatskanie Oregon.
With all 12 engines installed and the cooling tower completed initial testing will begin later this summer.
We expect the full plant to be operational in the first quarter of 2015 with total capital costs estimated to be $300million excluding AFDC.
Turn to slide eight we have provided detail on Tucannon River Wind Farm a 267 megawatt wind farm located in Southeastern Washington.
Now entering their peak construction period the turbine foundations are complete and turbine installation has begun.
As of last week components for 38 turbines are now on sight and nine are fully erected.
We expect Tucannon River to be online between December of this year and the end of first quarter 2015.
Upcoming work includes continued delivery of turbine components to the site and erection of the wind turbines followed by turbine testing.
Estimated total capital costs continue to be about $500 million excluding AFDC.
Lastly slide nine summarizes the Carty Generating Station 440 megawatt base-load natural gas fuel plant that is being constructed our existing Boardman plant.
Point of the foundations gas and steam and turbines is progressing smoothly and the installation of the heat recovery steam generator will begin shortly.
The plan is expected to be operational in mid-2016 with a total capital cost estimate of $450 million excluding AFDC.
Slide 10 provides a summary of the company’s five year capital expenditure forecast.
The new generating projects are expected to result in an average rate base increase of 1.2 billion.
We expect this growth along with base business capital expenditures to lead to an average rate base of approximately 4.5 billion in 2017.
Now for a regulatory update.
In February we filed a new general rate case for 2015 test year requesting an overall revenue increase of $81million based on a 10% ROE capital structure of 50% debt and 50% equity and rate base of 3.9 billion.
The primary focus of this general rate case is cost recovery of Port Westward Unit 2 and Tucannon River Wind Farm that are both expected to go into service by the first quarter of 2015.
The case is progressing as schedule with several rounds of settlement discussions over the last two months.
We expect a final order from the commission by the end of the year for a prize increase effective in the early 2015.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Jim Lobdell who will discuss our financial results for the second quarter and provide more detail on the 2015 general rate case.
Thank you Jim.
Turning to slide 11 as Jim mentioned the second quarter of 2014 we recorded net income of $35 million or $0.43 per diluted share compared with a net loss of $22 million or $0.29 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2013.
The increase in earnings primarily reflects the impact of two expenses in the second quarter of 2013 holding $0.49 per diluted share.
They were the Cascade Crossing Transmission Project write-off and then an industrial customer refund.
Excluding these two items second quarter 2013 non-GAAP adjusted operating earnings per share would have been $0.20 per diluted share.
In comparison earnings per diluted share in the second quarter of 2014 was $0.23 higher than the adjusted non-GAAP earnings in the second quarter of 2013 primarily due to the alignment of revenues and operating expenses as authorized in the 2014 general rate case and increased allowance for equity funds used during construction of the company’s three new generating resources.
Turning to slide 12 total retail revenues for the second quarter 2014 increased 23 million to 396 million driven primarily by a price increase on January 1 and the industrial customer refund in the second quarter of 2013.
This increase was partially offset by $2 million decrease related to lower residential energy deliveries quarter-over-quarter which was driven by warmer weather earlier in the quarter.
For the second quarter of 2014 net variable power costs decreased 10 million driven primarily by a decline in total system load.
In addition the average variable power cost decreased as a result of an increase in economic displacement of thermo generation quarter-over-quarter which was replaced by lower costs purchase power and higher wind generation.
Net variable power cost were 11 million below the annual power costs update tariff baseline for this quarter compared to 13 million below the baseline for the second quarter of last year.
Moving to slide 13 production distribution and administrative costs totaled 123 million for the second quarter of 2014 4 million higher than a year ago.
This increase was largely due to higher operations expense from an increase in our ownership of the Boardman coal plant from 65% to 80% as of December 31 2013.
Overall we continue to be on track with our full year operations and maintenance forecast of 480 million to 500 million.
Depreciation and amortization expense increased 11 million quarter-over-quarter driven by primarily two factors; 4 million related to an overall increase in capital additions and 8 million related to timing of the deferral and amortization of costs of four capital projects.
Total interest expenses decreased 2 million quarter-over- quarter as a 4 million decrease from higher AFDC from borrowed funds due to the construction of our three new generating resources was partially offset by higher interest expenses from an increase in the average debt outstanding.
Other income net increased 7 million quarter-over-quarter driven by an increased AFDC from equity funds.
On slide 14 as Jim had just mentioned our 2015 general rate case is progressing as schedule with several rounds of settlement discussions completed over the last two months.
Based on these discussions our overall requested revenue requirement has been reduced from 81 million to 31 million and are expected customer price change has fallen from 4.6% to 1.8%.
The key drivers of the decrease are as follows; 19 million related to an updated depreciation study which equally decreases revenues and depreciation expenses 9 million related to various updates including power costs and loads 6 million due to changes in timing of capital and other 5 million for moving from prepaid pension asset to the pension docket and 11 million from other agreement and changes to our original filings.
These updates reflect a decrease in our filed 2015 average rate base of 100 million to approximately 3.8 billion.
There are several items yet to be settled including ROE and we’ll continue to keep you updated on our progress as we resolve the remaining items.
On this slide 15 we continue to maintain a solid balance sheet included adequate liquidity and investment grade credit ratings.
As of June 30 2014 we had 794 million in cash and available short term credit 846 million of first mortgage bond issuance capacity and a common equity ratio of 46.6%.
We continue to implement a financing plan under which we delay equity issuances under the equity forward sale agreement until the first half of 2015.
As part of this delay we entered into an 18 month unsecured loan agreement to borrow 305 million.
We also executed a bond purchase agreement to issue 280 million of first mortgage bonds with delayed draws expected August October and November.
This plan will allow to finance our new generating resources in a cost effective way and eliminate our need for further equity or debt in 2014.
Back to you Jim.
Thanks Jim.
In summary our work this year is focused on successful execution of initiative that drive value for our customers and our shareholders including constructing our three new generating resources on time and on budget achieving fair and reasonable results on our 2015 general rate case and ensuring high quality operations across our system.
And now operator we’re ready for questions.
Good morning Brian.
Good morning Brian.
Could you quantify the income tax benefit in the quarter related to AFUDC? It was noted in the press release.
Pardon Brian? No it was noted in the press release.
Obviously I didn’t bring that here with me this morning.
I can get back to you.
Sure.
Okay.
You mentioned earlier 70 000 meter exchanges for safety and reliability and you’re going to capitalize the costs.
Can you quantify those costs? We have a range of costs discipline.
We’re still working on the detailed deployment strategy but somewhere between $6 million to $8 million.
Okay great.
And where’s the normalized sales growth in the second quarter? Lower than 1%.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
And that excludes the large papercuts which is on a variable price options.
Thanks Brian.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Sarah.
Good morning Sarah.
For the drawdown of equity next year do you expect that will be closer to midyear or should we think of it as a Q1 event? It would be closer to mid-year Sarah.
Got it.
And then given the 14 million PKM benefit as of June 30th assuming that doesn’t reverse in the second half would you expect to be in the upper end of the guidance range or is there any offsetting factors there? There’s still a lot of runway to go between now and the end of the year.
So it’s – I still think it’s a little premature to make a conclusion on that.
Got it.
And then one more on slide four you showed the second half results in ‘13 of $0.99 and then in the midpoint of the second half in ‘14 is $0.97.
Can you remind us if there are any non-recurring benefits last year or if there is any headwinds in the second half of this year that would offset the base rate increase in the AFUDC benefits? Not that I recall at this point.
No there shouldn’t be.
Okay so is there… Well there was the plant outages that we had last year but that would be that was Q3 so that’s not in the first half yeah.
Okay.
So is there any reason then that we’re not seeing growth in the second half of ‘14? Earnings growth growth in loads growth in? I’m sorry on an EPS basis I’m just looking at the implied guidance for the second half of ‘14 versus the second half of ‘13? No there is no reason we wouldn’t see it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Good morning Michael.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Couple of things the rate increase granted for this year how much have you taken year-to-date and what’s left to take in the second half of the year? Well typically the rate increase is spread equally over the year about half in the first half and half in the second half that’s the way it would typically be distributed.
Our loads are higher in the winter and in the summer say you have to kind of spread that out but kind of half year half year it’s about the same.
Obviously just in terms of O&amp;M and in terms of spread of O&amp;M but generally revenues come in about equally over the year in terms of half year – first half versus second half let’s split it equally.
Okay you made some comments both in your press release and in the beginning of your call regarding just the timing of certain line items given what happened in the rate case last year.
I’m trying to make sure I understand what those comments meant.
I have one or two following questions regarding the rate case.
So you gave the itemized lists and if I think about it the 19 million updated D&amp;A study and the 9 million of net variable power costs and other adjustments those two items don’t impact the bottom-line at all.
How about the other items? The 6 million in the timing of capital and other projects the 5 million prepaid and the 11 million of other items.
Do those drop to the bottom line? I mean the fact that they aren’t in the rate increase for this coming year they therefore could actually have an impact on earnings in 2015 or do these items not drop at all really to the bottom line? Well there is always a mixture of things in there.
There is projects that are being pushed out into the 2015 there are projects are pushed into ‘14.
There is an error correction in the numbers as well so there’s a lot of moving pieces.
So for the items that we stipulate it will have that are not normally things that we wouldn’t get cost recovery for.
Those items will adjust our budgets accordingly to try and manage to.
Got it.
And therefore the revision of the 3.8 down of 3.8 billion in rate base how does that impact longer term rate base? Does this mean that you still expect longer term rate base to kind of be the same but just the timing of some of it to be little bit or does this cause for us a slight revision of longer term rate base fees? Yeah we’re expecting it to be the same.
It’s just more of the timing issue at this point.
Got it.
And finally when I look at slide 10 in your CapEx forecast everything holds true.
You’re likely to have pretty significant change meaning once you finish the gas plants and the wind plants pretty significant change in capital spending in the out years to the point where your CapEx would be less than your depreciation potentially.
How do you think about that in terms of balancing growth versus balancing kind of a free cash flow profile? So we get that question a lot Michael and we think this is the next step in the process which we’ll start in another integrated planting process later this year and it will culminate in a filed IRP probably at the end of ‘15.
But it will address the replacement of Boardman which will shutdown in 2020 additional new renewables that we need to add to meet our renewable portfolio standard 25% by 2025.
We may need to address the need for additional capacity in that IRP.
So it will be a number of generating resource decisions that will come through the process.
In addition to that we are doing a number of things on the business side placing the billings system which is a pretty significant investment.
Our billings system is over 15 years old and we’ve got support from the regulators to move forward and replace that system.
We also have additional capital expenditures in the base businesses in things that we need to do in terms of smart grid and other things.
So there might be a little bit of low as we finish the Carty 1 project as we did before there will be – may be a year or so where we have to kind of get to these processes.
But we feel like we have good opportunities to invest the capital.
We’ll obviously have to go through the process to get an action plan approved by the commission.
We’ll have to do RFPs like we’ve done before but the company is committed and I think we’ve been able to demonstrate that internal resources can provide greater long-term value for our customers than just purchase power agreements but again we’ll have to go through that process.
Got it.
Thank you guys.
Much appreciate it.
Good morning Nick.
Good morning Nick.
Is he there? Nick? Sorry about that.
You guys just answered the question I had but I guess one quick one.
Did you just say what the rate increase on a percentage basis would be to the customers for the ‘15 test year? Yeah it’s about 1.8% is what it looks like at this trigger point in time.
We’ve still got to cover all items there are still outstanding to settle but at this point that’s what it looks like.
And recall we filed for about 4.6% increase in – and as we talked about earlier some of the changes will not affect the bottom-line.
There are timing issues so this is actually a good result for our customers in terms of minimizing the price impacts for them but still allowing us full recovery of our new projects that would go into service.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Good morning Mark.
Good morning everyone.
Just a couple of small questions.
The base CapEx number over the forecast is a little bit higher in your 2Q materials than over 1Q is there anything particular that’s driving that? No nothing in particular.
Nothing that’s going to impact kind of your rate base projections there on the… No no.
Okay.
Can you – I heard it earlier in the call the depreciation order fairly straightforward could you give a little bit of detail again I just missed the exact items that were the updates that brought the rate request on about 30 million? Yeah I can go back what was in the – So effectively we’ve got some update whether it would be load updates or power costs updates.
It’s a little over 9 million associated with that and project timings it’s around 6 million just things moving in and out.
An error correction that’s probably about 4 million some other items that we have stipulated we’ll probably do budget adjustments associated with it that’s around 7 million.
And then we also moved the pension request out to the pension docket and that was around 5 million.
Those were the major components outside of the (inaudible).
For clarity the pension they are allowing the FAS 87 expense the docket they were trying to address is dealing with the prepaid portion of our pension and that’s still in question in a separate docket.
Okay okay.
So you kind of have the budget exposure on is roughly 7 million out of that 30 million in terms of hitting a new target.
Pretty close.
That makes sense.
Thanks.
Appreciate it.
Good morning Maury.
Good morning folks.
How you’re doing? Just a question on the rate case and on the settlement process just curious are there any other issues that can be settled or the whole settling process done at this point? Yeah we had additional settlement discussions yesterday and we’re now trying to formulize those settlement agreements that those will be public once the stipulations are filed.
So we continue to work on and we still have a couple of issues we have not settled and we’ll just have to see if the parties can agree or we’ll take those to the commission for a decision.
So I think in the next few weeks you’ll see a little more clarity on recent settlements that we reached yesterday but we’re making good progress on most of the issues.
So you say you reached the settlements yesterday that you haven’t announced yet? Yeah we haven’t announced yet we still have to put all the paperwork together and get the parties to sign off to make sure we all agree to what we agreed to.
Is ROE one of them? We have to wait and let you know when we file that stipulation.
Okay.
But ROE is still on the table and you’re requesting 10.0 and I think staff says 9.2 so there is a pretty wide range there? The last approved was 9.75 that we agreed to last year.
Right okay.
Okay.
And then couple more questions on the PKM you ended June at 30 million positive and I know Jim Lobdell was saying that it’s too early to make further projection.
But I think earlier in the year you were saying that you projected it would be positive for the year at least not negative or something like that is that correct? No Maury what I said was that we’re here today we’re about 13 million below the baseline not 30.
No I thought you said 11 positive or in my mind 11 million below the baseline is 11 million positive.
So… So there is the quarter and then there is the year-to-date so… Right.
Okay.
So we’re 13.6 year-to-date and 11 for the quarter.
And how much for year-to-date? 13.6.
13.6 okay.
Okay but you’re still not going to make a projection for the full year.
You’re still not willing to project that it would be below the baseline for the full year? Correct.
Okay.
Can you give us some color on what’s behind it? First of all what is the baseline this year for 2014 on a megawatt hour basis? Is it someplace in the high 30s or the low 40s where is it I forget? On a megawatt hour basis the total is about 593 million on a megawatt hour basis you got to give me a minute I can come up with it.
And some of the drivers as we’re getting every year the change is from the baseline typically are in three basic areas number one it’s hydro conditions at least hydro is slightly positive this year.
And then wind is the second variable and I think we’re down this year on the wind forecast; and third issue is just overall economic displacement of our resources where we try to optimize or generating plans against the market and take opportunities there.
And obviously the four items I said three but there’s probably a fourth which is how well the plants operate themselves.
And so far year-to-date plants are meeting their operating objectives.
So those are the things that can cause variability in the baseline and it’s still too early to call for the full year.
I think we’re below the baseline now.
I think we’ll continue to be below the baseline how much really depends on kind of how things move for the second half of the year especially in the area of wind as well as the plant operations.
Yeah.
Maury a rough estimate on a per megawatt hour basis is around $35.
Okay 35.
Okay.
And hydro conditions are they continuing to – is there enough river flow to continue the generation well under the third quarter or is still kind of ramping up? Hydro is still looking good.
We’re about 102% right now overall.
Overall 102 okay.
So the rivers are still flowing okay.
On AFUDC can you give us an estimate of AFUDC contribution to earnings say in the second quarter or the first half or may be even as a part of guidance for the full year? Well about 7 million for the second quarter.
Okay.
Okay.
And right now you have about 755 million invested in these three plants so we can work on that number.
But your AFUDC rate is your last authorized ROE of 975? Yeah essentially we take the capital structure out of the last approved rate case and we use the equity rate and then the embedded debt rate.
So there is debt AFDC and then there is equity AFDC that we book and the combined rate is about 7.5%.
I’m sorry Jim can you say that again I missed that.
The combined equity – the combined AFDC rate is about 7.5% rate.
So it’s between equity and debt and the equity rate is based on the last approved ROE of 9.75 and then the actual capital structure when they actually calculate the split.
Right.
Got it.
Got it.
Can you – you’re estimating that Port Westward 2 will be $300 million excluding AFUDC.
Do you have an estimate (inaudible) date because the thing is you’re in completion do you have an estimate on what number might actually go into rate base from Port Westward 2? I’m trying to recall whether we provided that number publicly or not.
We haven’t done it in our disclosures typically but we have in the rate case.
So I guess – Bill will get you those numbers because I think we’ve filed them in the rate case and they’re available through that process.
I don’t want to misquote the numbers.
Alrighty.
Good enough.
Thank you folks.
Thanks Maury.
Good morning Andy.
Hey good morning guys.
I think most of my questions were asked by Maury but just to clarify you said 7 million of AFUDC in the second quarter that’s equity right? Actually I’m going to correct that in the second quarter 2014 it’s about 9 million.
That’s the equity portion of it or is that right – is that correct? That’s equity portion of it.
Right okay.
And then just on the back of the PKM in your guidance did you have a PKM assumption? No we assumed baseline power costs.
Okay so you assumed it would be just flat? Yes.
Got it.
Okay.
And settlement questions were asked which I was going to ask so that’s really it.
Thank you very much.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my call.
Just a question what was the capacity (inaudible) to attract wind in the quarter? I have to look that up.
We’ll get back to you on that.
All right.
Thank you.
Hey guys real quick kind of model oriented one.
D&amp;A was up a lot in the quarter and you kind of separated out the 8 million from the total D&amp;A increase.
What was that? Should we think of that as being ongoing kind of rebasing the level for D&amp;A for 2014? And then is the second quarter number kind of a good run rate to kind of start with and then we kind of add to it in the backend of the year? And then if the full settlement gets or the term to the settlement get approved you’d then see a little bit of drop off the following years of due to a lower D&amp;A rate? Yeah using the second quarter would be a good run rate because what we’ve got in there is about 4 million associated with the four capital projects they got pushed out that are now included in our D&amp;A.
So the new D&amp;A levels are a good run rate.
Excluding the new generating plant.
Right.
Run rate for the year right? Run rate for the year.
And do you expect the rate increase for the rate case that’s underway now to go in effect Jan 01 2015 and to capture a full year worth of the revenue requirements from the new generating units? Well it really depends on when the plants become commercially operational and so what we’ll do is we’ll continue to look at AFDC on the projects until they become operational.
At which point we provide a certificate to the commission that they are deemed to use long rate to provide service at which point the rate increases are for those individual projects would become effective.
We would like to try so we don’t have multiple rate changes and we think – we’ll have to see how the time.
It happened sometime in the first quarter so we’ll have to play that out.
So you see there are going to be in revenues or it’s going to be in AFDC in terms of the return on the capital.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Sorry about that.
Just on the PKM so ‘13 I noted from your K are you under-collected by 11 million which included – does that include 17 million hit with plants being down was that kind of like the net number? There were some pluses and minuses but the bottom-line was 11 million hit is that correct? Right.
That’s right.
Yeah.
Okay.
So we credit you in ‘14 with 11 and then the 14 million this year that includes which is a benefit thus far that includes 1.5 million of incremental cost that you envisioned at the beginning of the year from plant being down in January? Yeah that includes the costs about in January.
Got it.
Okay.
That’s great.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Okay.
I don’t think we have any other calls online.
So I want to thank you and appreciate your interest in Portland General Electric.
And we invite you to join us when we report our third quarter 2014 results in late October.
Thanks again.
Have a great day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!  Good morning everyone and welcome to Portland General Electric Company's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today is Tuesday October 28 2014.
(Operator Instructions) For opening remarks I would like to turn the conference call over to Portland General Electric's Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Bill Valach.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Shannon and good morning everyone.
We are pleased that you're able to join us today.
And before we begin our discussion this morning I’d like to remind you that we have prepared a presentation to supplement our discussions and we’ll be referencing that presentation throughout the call.
The slides are also available on our website at portlandgeneral.com.
Referring to slide two I'd also like to make our customary statements regarding Portland General Electric’s written and oral disclosures and commentary.
There will be statements in this call that are not based on historical facts and as such constitute forward-looking statements under current law.
These statements are subject to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made today.
For a description of some of the factors that may occur that could cause such differences the company requests that you read our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
Portland General Electric’s third quarter earnings were released via our earnings press release and the Form 10-Q before the market opened today and the release is available at our website at portlandgeneral.com.
The company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
And these Safe Harbor statements should be incorporated as part of any transcript on this call.
As shown on slide three leading our discussion today are Jim Piro President and CEO and Jim Lobdell Senior Vice President of Finance CFO and Treasurer.
Jim Piro will begin today's presentation by providing an update on our operating performance our outlook for 2014 service area economy and strategic initiatives.
Then Jim Lobdell will provide more detail around the third quarter's results and discuss our 2015 general rate case.
And following those prepared remarks we will open our lines up for your questions.
And now it’s my pleasure to turn the call over to Jim Piro.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Welcome to Portland General Electric's third quarter earnings call.
As presented on slide four we recorded net income of $39 million or $0.47 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2014 compared with net income of $31 million or $0.40 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2013.
PGE continues to demonstrate strong operational performance across the company in 2014.
Construction of our three new generating resources is proceeding on time and on budget.
We have now settled all items for our 2015 general rate case with the OPUC staff and interveners and we are now in the range of our full year 2014 earnings guidance by $0.05 from $2.05 to $2.20 per diluted share to $2.10 to $2.20 per diluted share.
Now for an operational update on slide five.
Our generating plants operated very well in the quarter with PGE generation availability at 92%.
Customer satisfaction remains strong with our national rankings in the top quartile for residential customers and top decile for general business and key customers.
As mentioned in our last call this quarter we undertook a project to exchange 70 000 residential meters in our service area that do not meet PGE's operational and safety standards.
Work is over 95% complete and on track to be finished by the end of this week.
We plan to capitalize the majority of replacement costs which are estimated to be approximately $7 million to $8 million.
Turning to slide six.
Now for an update on the economy in our customers.
PGE experienced a 4.7% increase in energy deliveries this quarter compared to Q3 2013.
This increase is on a weather adjusted basis and excludes one large paper customer.
We continue to see positive economic trends in our service area and these trends are translating into growth across all sectors but particularly in the commercial and industrial sectors.
Our overall customer count is up 1% and new connects are up 15% year-over-year due primarily to strong multi-family construction activity in the region.
In addition to ongoing expansion in the high tech sector the overall service area continues to show signs of economic growth and new development.
In the past quarter a transportation manufacturing company announced increased demand for a barge and rail cars.
Construction began on a new data center which is expected to be operational by mid-2015 and there is continued expansion at the Port of Portland.
Employment indictors in our service area continue to be encouraging.
Job growth in Oregon has been strong this year growing at 2.2% in September with an emphasis in the professional and business services government and leisure and hospitality sectors.
Also this quarter we’ve seen more people joining Oregon's labor force indicating increased optimism in the labor market as more people join or migrate to Oregon looking for employment opportunities.
In addition the unemployment rate in our service area dropped from 6.4% a year ago to 6% in September.
As a result of these positive economic signs and a low growth in the third quarter we are maintaining our loan growth forecast based on normal weather of approximately 1% over 2013 weather adjusted results.
This again excludes one large paper customer.
This forecast is net of approximately 1.5% of energy efficiency based on the energy trust of Oregon's projected programmatic energy efficiency savings for 2014.
Now let me update you on the construction of our three new generating resources which all continue to be on time and on budget.
Slide seven provides detail on Port Westward Unit 2 a 220 megawatt natural gas flexible capacity resource under construction in Clatskanie Oregon.
Mechanical completion has been achieved and we have commenced startup activities including test fires of all 12 engines.
This resource will assist us in better managing load requirements and integrating renewables into the grid.
The projected estimated capital cost is approximately $300 million excluding AFDC and it is expected to be operational in Q1 of 2015.
Turning to slide eight we have provided details on Tucannon River a 267 megawatt wind farm located in Southeastern Washington.
All 116 turbines have now been erected over 100 are mechanically complete and testing is underway.
The projects estimated capital cost is approximately $500 million excluding AFDC and it is expected to be operational by the end of 2014 or early Q1 of 2015.
Lastly slide nine summarizes the Carty Generation Station of 440 megawatt natural gas base-load resource under construction in Boardman Oregon.
Engineering design and procurement are nearing completion and foundation work continues for the gas and steam turbine.
In addition major components such as the heat recovery steam generator and the cooling tower are being delivered and installed.
The plan is expected to be operational in mid-2016 with a total capital cost estimated approximately $450 million excluding AFDC.
Slide 10 provides a summary of the company's five year capital expenditure forecast.
The new generating projects are expected to result in an average rate base increase of $1.2 billion in 2017.
We expect the three new generation projects along with the base business capital expenditures to result in an average rate base of approximately $4.5 billion in 2017.
Now for a regulatory update.
In February we filed a general rate case with a 2015 test year focused primarily on cost recovery for Port Westward Unit 2 and Tucannon River Wind Farm.
We have now settled all items with the OPUC staff and interveners and expect this commission to issue a final order before the end of 2014 which will result in an average overall price increase of approximately 1%.
In February of 2015 we expect to file a general rate case for a 2016 test year.
That will include cost recovery for Carty.
In other regulatory activity on October 23rd the OPUC staff issued a memorandum and proposed order on PGE's 2013 in a greater resource plan recommending to the commission the acknowledgment of our plan with one additional study.
There are no significant capital expenditures associated with this IRP.
The 2013 IRP will be considered by the commission at a public meeting on November 12th.
We now expect to start preparations for the 2016 integrated resource planning cycle that will evaluate options and make recommendations for both the replacement of Boardman as well as additional renewables to meet Oregon’s renewable portfolio standard up 20% by 2020.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Jim Lobdell who will discuss our financial results for the third quarter and provide additional details on the 2015 general rate case.
Jim? Thank you Jim.
Turning to slide 11 as Jim mentioned the third quarter of 2014 we recorded net income of $39 million or $0.47 per diluted share compared with net income of $31 million or $0.40 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2013.
The increase in earnings was driven by an increase in price and energy deliveries lower net variable power costs and an increase in the allowance for equity funds used during construction for the company's three new generating resources.
Increased energy deliveries were driven by normal weather combined with increased demand from new construction and high tech industry expansion.
Moving to slide 12 total retail revenues for the third quarter of 2014 increased $31 million to $434 million.
This increase was primarily driven by a $17 million increase from higher sales volume $16 million from the January 1st price increase and a $5 million increase from the collection of deferred cost associated with four capital projects.
These increases were partially offset by $6 million estimated refund to customers related to the decoupling mechanism.
Total actual energy deliveries for the third quarter of 2014 were 4.1% higher than the third quarter of 2013.
Our customer segments saw increased energy deliveries as residential up 5.2% commercial up 3.5% and industrial energy deliveries up 3.6%.
Purchase power and fuel increased by $12 million consisting of $21 million from an 11% increase in total system load partially offset by $9 million from a 4% decrease in the average variable power cost per megawatt hour.
Net variable power cost which consists of purchased power and fuel expense net of wholesale revenues decreased $5 million for the third quarter of 2014 compared to the third quarter of 2013.
The decrease in net variable power cost was driven largely by improved thermal plant performance.
During the third quarter of 2013 the company experienced unplanned outages at three of its thermal plants which drove an increase in the average cost per megawatt hour resulting in higher energy replacement costs during that period.
Net variable power costs were $5 million above the baseline this quarter compared with $9 million above the base line in the third quarter of last year.
Net variable power cost year-to-date Q3 2014 were $9 million below the baseline.
This compares to year-to-date Q3 2013 net variable power costs which were $5 million below the baseline.
Year-to-date costs are within the deadband and we have not recorded a collection or a refund.
Moving on to slide 13 production distribution and administrative costs totaled $114 million for the third quarter of 2014 an increase of $11 million from the third quarter of 2013.
The increase in operations and maintenance expense primarily consisted of $5 million increase in plant sub-station and line maintenance expenses $5 million in increased incentive expense resulting largely from higher net income and a $1 million increase due to the increase in PGE's ownership interest in the Boardman coal plant from 65% to 80%.
Depreciation and amortization expense increased $14 million quarter-over-quarter driven primarily by two factors.
$9 million related to the timing as a deferral and amortization of cost for capital projects and $3 million related to the overall increase in capitalizations.
Total interest expense decreased $2 million quarter-over-quarter as the $3 million increase in long term interest expense was more than offset by a $5 million decrease and AFDC debt.
Other income increased $5 million quarter-over-quarter driven by a $7 million increase in AFDC from equity funds which was partially offset by lower earnings related to the non-qualified benefit plan trust assets.
Income tax was $16 million in the third quarter of 2014 compared with $4 million in the third quarter of 2013.
The increase is largely due to the combination of higher pre-tax income for 2014 compared to 2013 and the timing the recognition of production tax credit.
Moving on to slide 14 as Jim previously mentioned we’ve reached an overall stipulated settlement with the OPUC staff and interveners in September that resolved all remaining matters in the case.
The key items in the stipulated agreement are our return on equity of 9.68% capital structure of 50% debt and 50% equity cost of capital of 7.56% and a rate base of $3.8 billion which is based on a stipulated in-service amount of $323 million for Port Westward 2 and $525 million for the Tucannon River Wind Farm.
The estimated net increase in annual revenues from this stipulation is $17 million which approximates a 1% overall increase in customer prices.
PGE expects the OPUC to issue a final order before the end of 2014 with new customer prices expected to become effective in 2015.
On the slide 15 we continue to maintain a solid balance sheet including adequate liquidity in investment grade credit ratings.
As of September 30th 2014 we had $793 million in cash and available short term credit $692 million of first mortgage bond issuance capacity and a common equity ratio of 44.9%.
We have largely executed our current financing plan under which we obtain $305 million 18 month unsecured loans and issued $200 million of first mortgage bonds under our $280 million bond purchase agreement.
We expect to issue the remaining $80 million of first mortgage bonds in November of this year.
This flexible financing plan has allowed us to finance our new generation resources in a cost effective way.
And regards to the issuance of new equity we continue to expect to draw upon our outstanding equity forward during the first half of 2015.
Moving on to slide 16 as Jim previously mentioned Fiji is narrowing it’s guidance range for its earnings from [$2.05] (ph) to $2.20 per share to $2.10 to $2.20 per share.
This change reflects our lower operating expenses and as a result we’re lowering our guidance for operating and maintenance expense from a range of $480 million to $500 million to $475 million to $495 million.
All the guidance assumptions remain largely unchanged.
Back to you Jim.
In summary we continue to focus on successful execution of our business strategy including completing our three new generating resources on time and on budget achieving fair and reasonable results on our 2015 general rate case and ensuring high quality reliable and safe operations across our system that delivers value to our customers and our shareholders.
And now operator we're ready for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Paul Ridzon of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
You may begin.
Can you refresh us on what you expect the tax rate to be for the year? Effective tax rate for the year we expect to be about 25% to 30%.
And how do you expect to draw the equity down -- in one lump sum or kind of trickle out as you start to spend more capital? Paul probably it would be more towards the lump sum towards the back end.
Towards the back end of the first half? Yes.
Okay.
And then I don't know if you quantified weather but what did weather do in the quarter on a per-share basis if you have that? It’s about $0.03.
Positive I take it? Yes.
And then lastly you mentioned a $6 million refund.
Was that related to prior periods or prior years?  $6 million refund during the quarter? You talking about the PCAM? Is that what you are asking about or - I think it was decoupling.
Okay.
Yeah that would be the year-to-date number.
Okay.
So that’s always in this current year? Yeah.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Paul.
Thanks Paul.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Sarah Akers with Wells Fargo.
You may begin.
Good morning Sarah.
Good morning.
In the past you have talked about a new customer billing system for about $100 million.
Can you update the status of that project? And are there any other incremental investments that might bolster the CapEx in the 2017-2018 timeframe? We continue to pursue replacement of our customer information system as well as what’s called the meter data consolidate which is the interface between our smart meter system and the customer information system.
So we have approval for that project we’ve got good support from the regulatory agency in terms of moving that project forward and it’s now included in our CapEx forecast.
Okay so the 14 to 18 CapEx I think went up about $125 million so that's what's going on there? Most of that is the billing system plus other adjustments to our capital forecast.
Got it.
And then in the absence of any new projects in the 2017-2018 timeframe what are your thoughts on share buybacks there? It’s too early to tell at this point.
We’re going to continue to evaluate our capital needs and our capital expenditure program and as we get closer to that we’ll look at that – along with other options in terms of keeping our capital structure in kind of that 50-50 range.
A lot of it will depend on how the IRP works through this next IRP workthrough.
We want to leave ourselves flexibility so if we do decide to construct additional resources we’ll have the right capital structure to do that.
Got it.
And then the last one the guidance raise appears to be supported by the lower O&amp;M.
But then you also have the $9 million PCAM benefit year-to-date and then it looks like a little bit of weather benefit.
Are there any offsets to those PCAM and weather benefits that are preventing something more than the $0.05 guidance raise?  Sarah we still got another quarter to go and it’s always a volatile quarter with the weather and the winter timeframe.
So right now I’d say no they are not.
Perfect.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Brian Russo of Ladenburg Thalmann.
You may begin.
Hi good morning.
Hi Brian.
Hello Brian.
Could you just remind us how much capacity is being retired at Boardman and then how much additional capacity you need to meet the 2020 RPS? Boardman is about 585 megawatts.
We own 90% - we’ll own 90% when we execute the last 10% share.
We have our purchase option in front of the commission which we expect them to approve which will execute by year end.
That will put us at 90%with the other 10% owned by Idaho Power.
So you take 585x the 90 and you get our share of Boardman in times of that 80% - 85% capacity factor.
So that’s the piece that we’re going to have to address in the next IRP.
And there's a lot of interest in both gas as well as additional renewable to replace that.
We're going to have to run a number of portfolios.
We’re also looking at the 111 (d) rules and how that plays out.
So that’s a whole analysis that we’re going to be doing for the next IRP.
In terms of the renewables every 5% is worth about roughly 100 megawatts - 100 average megawatts.
We should be about 300 megawatts of name plate if you assume about one-third capacity factor.
We're primarily looking at wind but we’re also as you know we’re doing some research at Boardman on biomass but that’s very pretty much R&amp;D at this point.
But we’re looking for diversity on our renewables.
But that’s kind of the magnitude of what we’re going to be looking for in the next integrated resource plan.
We’ll continue to support energy efficiency.
We’re going to have to do some work on the demand side.
We continue to look at demand side programs to control our load and to make it better load to meet.
So those are the kinds of things we’ll be looking at the next IRP.
We’re also – to extent we add more wind resources.
We’re going to have to look at additional gas flexible resources like Port Westward Unit 2 as we will need capacity to back that up.
Got it.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
And I know there are restrictions on increasing the dividend while the forward sale is still awaiting settlements.
But when we look say in the second half of 2015 and we look at where your payout ratio is today in the low-50% range is it reasonable to assume a meaningful step-up in the dividend when we get to the second half of 2015?  So we typically look at the dividend in our May Board meeting and the Board understands kind of what the low end of the guidance.
We’re going to evaluate that as a time we’ll look at all the factors and we will launch a state within our guidance between 50% and 70%.
So I can’t handicap how the Board is going to look at it but we’ve had really good conversations around the dividend and we’ll make a decision in May and move forward.
But the Board is committed to understand the value of the dividend to our shareholders.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mark Barnett of Morningstar.
You may begin.
Hey good morning everyone.
Good morning Mark.
Just a couple of questions one on the rate case filing.
I've seen some of the documents.
But can you talk about -- there were some revisions and I know some of them are non-cash.
But are there going to be any challenges in those numbers to hitting the allowed ROE in the filing? Is that something that you would be comfortable talking about?  What I will say is that - a good part of it – I mean we recently went out with $81 million with a request and some of it is cash and some of it is non-cash.
And as you know we ended up with $17 million at the end as far as the net after accounting for the credits.
And embedded in that is a change in base business of about $41 million.
Now as I was saying a good part of that is appreciation which isn’t going to impact us.
And then there were a lot of updates associated with power cost and loads and project timing and things of that nature.
So really gets down to a small number of that we’re going to have to adjust our own infrastructure in order to deliver alignment with that GRC case at this particular point.
So I think that we can meet the challenges going into 2015.
Now there’s a couple of items in the rate case that we typically don’t get recovery for the incentives for officers and that portion of the other employees incentive plans that tends to have a difference between our allowed and our actual ROE.
Our corporate contributions to non-profits and others and lobbying expenses those - and image advertisings.
So those ones are the typical ones they’re not big I think we‘ve typically talked about 100 basis points spread between our allowed and our actual because of those disallowances which are still - real expenses for the company that number is going down as our rate base grows and Jim I don’t know if you can provide any guidance on that.
Yeah there is about 65 basis points where the difference is what it usually accumulates to.
And that's by the time we get to 2017.
Did that make sense? Yes no thanks a lot.
I really appreciate that detail.
And if I could just one more sort of bigger-picture question.
Your long-term load growth numbers when you are looking at your generation needs for these next processes it's a fairly large impact from energy efficiency you have baked in for 2014.
Is this the kind of thing where you are still hitting the low-hanging fruit or do you expect to keep that sort of a run rate over your load planning horizon? We've been working with the energy trust on this specific item trying to understand the supply curve as we go out in time especially with low gas price environment.
We’ve been doing about 35 average megawatts a year which is that 1.5% we’ve been talking about.
When you look at the supply curves over time that number starts going down in the later years.
It’s not next year but probably year after that it starts diminishing as we’ve been doing those for a long period of time.
So absent any new technology those numbers are dropping off probably down in the 20 average megawatt range more in the 1% range and maybe even lower unless new technology comes about.
So the energy trust and PGE's continue to work on what that supply curve look like what measures might be cost efficient.
But in this low gas price environment many measures don’t become economic.
And so those are things that we’ll be evaluating in our integrated resource planning process in the next cycle.
But so it does kind of tail off.
And if you go out many many years it gets very low absent any new technology changes.
Great.
Thanks for all of the detail guys.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from Andrew Weisel of Macquarie Capital.
You may begin.
Good morning Andrew.
Hi Andrew.
First a small one.
The increase in the base capital spending that Sarah had asked about -- was that included in the settled 2014 rate case or will that be rolled into next year's rate case? The customer information system will not be completed until early 2017 I think maybe after the first quarter sometime first or second quarter.
So it's not in any rate case at this point and would not be part of the 2016 rate case the way we contemplate it today as of 2016 test year.
So we would evaluate that in the 2017 time frame and the real question there is given all the other changes going on with depreciation and all the other things we will look at 2017 to determine whether we need to file a rate case for 2017 to cover the cost of that or it can be covered under the normal operations.
So but it wouldn’t really show in service till 2017.
Got it that's helpful.
Okay then on next year's rate case you mentioned Carty is obviously the big one.
From a high level can you talk about what some of the other puts and takes might be? Would there be any opportunities for credits that might offset the impact like you found in the cash one? And just from a very high level what the impact on customer rates might look like.
So Jim will give you the increase for Port West I mean for Carty.
We’re still looking at 2016 to see how the year shakes out.
We’re just going to the O&amp;M budgets at this point and the load forecast all those have to be factored into our kind of thinking.
The number for Carty has come down.
I think we were talking 6% to 8% before and now we’re down to 4% to 6%.
So it’s come down as we’ve got better estimates of the capital and depreciation in all the components of that project.
So we will look at that and then we’ll make a decision here in the next month or so on the actual structure of the rate case but right now just as the throes of going to the O&amp;M budgets and getting the load forecast for 2016 so that we can make an informed decision on how the overall year shakes out.
In regards to the credit for the DOE decommissioning refund that’ll be about $17 million that will carry over into that time frame as well.
And then also in 2016 there will be some of the BPA regional Power Act fund as well.
That will be about $6 million.
Great that's very helpful.
Appreciate the detail.
Then lastly going back to the dividend I know you can't get too specific and it's hard to predict what the Board will go with.
But is your thinking more along the lines of accelerating the annual growth? Or might it be more of a one-time step-up either in 2015 or 2016 when your construction winds down? Again I can’t tell the Board will decide this.
But I think our sense is that we want to continue to show growth in the divided over time and build into it rather than just do a big step function and then go back to the old numbers.
But that’s something we’ll have to visit with the Board.
I clearly think they understand that we’re at the low end of the payout ratio as you look at this year and they understand the importance of the dividend and we’ll look at that.
So I can't give you any more specific guidance on that.
But we know we like to continue to grow the dividend and do that in a planful way so that we can sustain it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is a follow up from Paul Ridzon of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
You may begin.
My question was answered.
Thank you.
Hey Paul one other thing on decoupling just to clarify it was the third quarter of 2014 that had a $6 million refund and year-to-date it’s about little over $3 million.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I am showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Jim Piro for closing remarks.
Thank you.
We appreciate your interest in Portland General Electric.
And we look forward to meeting with many of you at EEI in November in Dallas.
So have a great day.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Have a wonderful day.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Portland General Electric Company’s Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today is Friday February 13 2015.
This call is being recorded.
And as such all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] For opening remarks I would like to turn the conference call over to Portland General Electric’s Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Bill Valach.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Eric and good morning everyone.
We are pleased that you are able to join us today.
And before we begin our discussion this morning I’d like to remind you that we have prepared a presentation to supplement our discussion and we’ll be referring to those slides in the presentation throughout the call.
The slides are available on our website at portlandgeneral.com.
Referring to Slide 2 I would like to make our customary statements regarding Portland General Electric’s written and oral disclosures and commentary.
There will be statements in this call that are not based on historical facts and as such constitute forward-looking statements under current law.
These statements are subject to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made today.
For a description of some of the factors that may occur that could cause such differences the company requests that you read our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Qs.
Portland General Electric’s fourth quarter and full year earnings were released via our earnings press release and the 2014 annual Form 10-K before the market opened today and the release and the 10-K are available at portlandgeneral.com.
The company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
And these Safe Harbor statements should be incorporated as part of any transcript on this call.
As shown on Slide 3 leading our discussion today are Jim Piro President and CEO and Jim Lobdell Senior Vice President of Finance CFO and Treasurer.
Jim Piro will begin today’s presentation by providing an update on our operating performance our service area economy and strategic initiatives.
Then he will turn the call over to Jim Lobdell who will provide more detail around the fourth quarter and the full year financial results discuss financing and liquidity and discuss our outlook for 2015.
And following these prepared remarks as always we will open the lines up for your questions.
And now I would like to turn the call over.
It’s my pleasure to turn it over to Jim Piro.
Thank you Bill.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Welcome to Portland General Electric’s fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings call.
2014 was a milestone year for PGE marking 125 years since we provided the nation’s first long-distance transmission of electricity.
In 2014 we achieved several key objectives towards meeting our customers’ energy needs and I am pleased to share our results with you this morning.
On today’s call I will provide an overview of our financial performance in 2014 and initiate 2015 earnings guidance give you an update on our operating performance and the economic conditions in our operating area and discuss our project on the strategic initiatives including progress on the Carty Generating Station our 2016 general rate case and the 2016 integrated resource plan.
Following my remarks Jim Lobdell will provide details in the fourth quarter and annual results discuss financing and liquidity and end with the key assumptions supporting our guidance for 2015.
So let’s begin.
As presented on Slide 4 we recorded net income of $175 million or $2.18 per diluted share in 2014 compared with net income of $105 million or $1.35 per diluted share in 2013.
This increase in earnings per share was largely the result of the $52 million expense taken in 2013 for the Cascade Crossing Transmission project and an industrial customer refund of $9 million increased AFDC related to the construction of our three new generating projects and improved generating plant performance.
Now looking ahead for 2015 we are initiating full year earnings guidance of $2.20 to $2.35 per diluted share.
Jim will provide more detail later in the call.
Now for an operational update on Slide 5 I am very proud of our employees’ accomplishments in delivering outstanding customer service along with strong operating and financial performance in 2014.
In addition to achieving excellent performance at our generating plants we delivered on the significant objective of bringing two new generating resources into service ahead of schedule and under budget.
PGE’s customer satisfaction ratings remain strong.
We are in the top quartile in terms of satisfaction with our residential customers and top decile with our business customers according to the 2014 survey results reported by Market Strategies.
PGE also ranked third nationally out of 48 companies for a large customer satisfaction according to the 2014 survey results reported by TQS Research.
We continue to focus our efforts to be more efficient and effective in delivering energy to our customers.
We made good progress in 2014 but still have significant opportunities ahead as we improve technology streamline processes and improve the skills of our employees in all areas of the company.
Now let me provide you an update on our capital expenditures and rate base.
Slide 6 provides the summary of the company’s capital expenditure forecast through 2016.
Altogether PGE’s three new generating projects and base capital spending results in a rate base increase of $1.4 billion for an approximate rate base of $4.5 billion in 2016.
PGE’s second fully owned and operating large-scale wind project the 267 megawatt Tucannon River Wind Farm went into service on December 15 ahead of schedule.
We estimate that the final completion of the project will require approximately $25 million of capital expenditures in 2015 with the total construction cost estimated to be approximately $530 million including AFDC.
Overall the project when completed will be less than the original RFP bid.
Second Port Westward Unit 2 a 220 megawatt natural gas-fired flexible capacity project went into service on December 30 ahead of schedule.
We estimate that the final completion of the plant will require approximately $20 million of capital expenditures in 2015 and the total construction costs are estimated to be approximately $350 million including AFDC.
Similarly the project when complete will be less than the original RFP bid.
And third the Carty Generating Station a 440 megawatt natural gas-fired combined cycle power plant at our Boardman site is being constructed by Abengoa and will be owned and operated by PGE is expected to be in service in the second quarter of 2016 at an estimated cost of $450 million excluding AFDC.
The project is currently on time and on budget.
Now for an update on the economy and our customers on Slide 7 Oregon’s economy was strong in 2014 with several business expansions and investment projects announced in the second half of the year.
The Portland region is experiencing strong demand for multi-family housing and office space which is driven largely by new and expanding software companies and creative firms and Oregon once again ranked number one for in migration in 2014 according to the annual study completed by United Van Lines.
Year-over-year the number of customers PGE serves has increased by approximately 1%.
In 2014 Oregon employment grew at an average rate of 2.8% adding more than 50 000 additional jobs by year end.
The unemployment rate in Oregon is the lowest it has been in 6 years and the unemployment rate in our service area was 5.9% in December down from 6.1% a year ago.
Notably these downward trends in unemployment continued in Oregon despite more people coming into the state and existing as residents reentering the workforce.
For the full year 2014 weather adjusted energy deliveries were up approximately 1% over 2013 when adjusting out the usage of one large paper customer.
This increase in delivery – deliveries was driven primarily by strong growth in the industrial sector due to expansion in the high-tech industry.
This increase along with the moderate growth in the commercial sector more than offset the decline in residential user per customer.
In 2015 we expect weather adjusted energy deliveries to grow by approximately 1%.
This growth is net of approximately 1.5% of energy efficiency and is driven by the high-tech industry as Intel its suppliers and new data centers continue to grow and expand their businesses.
The Oregon State economic forecast released in November shows the economic outlook for 2015 to be positive and projects a 2.6% increase in employment in 2015.
And now on to Slide 8 I would like to provide you an update with our four key objectives for 2015: first deliver operational excellence by meeting our 2015 performance targets; second continue the construction of Carty Generating Station on budget with expected completion in Q2 of 2016; three achieve a fair and reasonable outcome in our 2016 general rate case filed yesterday; and four work collaboratively with all our stakeholders to prepare our 2016 integrated resource plan and it’s associated action plan to meet our customers’ future energy needs that provides the best long-term balance of cost and risk.
So first in the operational excellence area we are focused on being steadfast in our commitment to ensuring the safety of our employees and the public delivering exceptional service to our customers meeting or exceeding our top quartile transmission and reliability performance metrics ensuring that our generating plants meet or exceed their availability targets and meeting our financial performance targets.
Second Slide 9 provides a status on the Carty Generating Station.
Construction is progressing as planned.
Major foundation work and the cooling tower are now complete.
The heat recovery steam generator modules and casings are installed and welding of piping components has commenced.
The gas turbine has arrived in Oregon and installation will start later this month.
Slide 10 covers our third objective.
Yesterday we filed our 2016 general rate case with the Oregon Public Utility Commission the filing which is available on our website request an overall customer price of 3.7% effective in 2016.
The request is based on a return on equity of 9.9% a capital structure of 50% debt and 50% equity and a rate base of $4.5 billion.
The $66 million annualized revenue increase includes $39 million for the base business needs partially offset by $56 million from the amortization of customer credits and updates to supplemental tariffs and an $83 million increase for Carty on an annualized basis.
We expect the commission to issue a final order before the end of 2015 with new customer prices expected to be affected in two stages.
Initially a price reduction of approximately 1% would become effective on January 1 2016 for base business cost including customer credits and other tariff updates and a price increase of 4.7% for Carty that would become effective once the plant begins providing service to customers which again is expected to occur in the second quarter of 2016.
The fourth objective is the 2016 integrated resource plan on Slide 11.
We anticipate filing the plan with the Oregon Public Utility Commission in mid 2016 with an order expected in 2017.
This year we are focused on the development of the plan analysis and conducting public meetings.
The IRP assumes a 20 year planning horizon with the action plan for the period 2017 through 2020.
The IRP will address multiple issues including replacement of our Boardman plan which will cease operation on coal at the end of 2020 meeting the renewable portfolio standard milestone that requires PGE to supply 20% of electricity our customers use from qualified renewable resources by 2020 additional energy efficiency and demand side actions the potential capacity needs to serve our customers and several other topics.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Jim Lobdell who will go into more depth on our financial and operating results liquidity and financing and providing the assumptions for our 2015 earnings guidance.
Thank you Jim.
Turning to Slide 12 for the fourth quarter of 2014 we reported net income of $43 million or $0.55 per diluted share compared to net income of $47 million or $0.59 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2013.
This decrease was primarily driven by lower energy deliveries due to warmer weather higher operating and maintenance expenses and an increase in our effective tax rate in the fourth quarter of 2014.
This was partially offset by a price increase from the 2014 general rate case related to recovery of operating costs improved generating plant performance and an increase in allowance for funds used during construction due to the higher construction work-in-progress balances for our three new generating projects.
As shown on Slide 13 for the full year of 2014 we recorded net income of $175 million or $2.18 per diluted share and an ROE of 9.4% versus our allowed ROE of 9.75% compared to $105 million or $1.35 per diluted share and an ROE of 5.9% versus an allowed ROE of 10% for 2013.
This increase in net income was primarily driven by the Cascade Crossing write-off and an industrial customer refund in 2013 higher AFDC improved generating plant performance with no major unplanned outages in 2014 and a price increase received through the 2014 general rate case to align our revenues and costs.
These increases were partially offset by higher effective tax rate in 2014 due to higher pre-tax income compared to 2013.
Moving on to Slide 14 total revenue for the fourth quarter of 2014 was $500 million a $1 million increase over revenues for the fourth quarter of 2013.
Weather in the fourth quarter of 2014 was much warmer than the previous year with heating degree days decreasing 25% quarter-over-quarter.
For the full year total revenues increased 5% or $90 million.
The increase in revenue was due primarily to increases in customer prices from the 2014 general rate case to align our revenues and our costs collection of deferred costs related to four capital projects and a customer refund recorded in 2013 partially offset by lower energy deliveries and a decrease related to the decoupling mechanism.
Purchase power and fuel expense decreased $44 million year-over-year driven by a 6% decline in the average variable cost per megawatt hour.
This decrease was driven by a decline in the company’s cost of natural gas to fuel its generating plants in 2014 compared to 2013 and higher cost replacement power in 2013 related to thermal plant outages.
In total net variable power costs in 2014 was $7 million below the baseline of the power cost adjustment mechanism for the full year compared to $11 million above in 2013.
Moving to Slide 15 operating and maintenance costs totaled $484 million in 2014 $40 million higher than in 2013 and at the midpoint of our forecast range of $475 million to $495 million.
The higher costs in 2014 were driven primarily by the following increases: $10 million related to storm and restoration of which $5 million was related to three major windstorms in the fourth quarter and offset through our storm recovery mechanism; $7 million as a result of the company’s ownership interest in Boardman increasing from 65% to 80% on December 31 2013; $17 million for numerous items including maintenance and generation and transmission and distributions partially offset by the $3 million expense for the 2013 renewable benchmark bid; and $8 million due to a number of items including higher incentives related to improved performance increases in medical and technology costs offset by lower pension injury and damages expense.
The Cascade Crossing Transmission Project reflects $52 million of cost expense in the second quarter of 2013 which were previously recorded as construction work in progress.
Depreciation and amortization expense was at the midpoint of our guidance range and increased $53 million from $248 million in 2013 to $301 million in 2014.
The increase was driven primarily by two factors: $33 million due to the timing of the deferral and amortization of the costs related to four capital projects and $16 million related to an overall increase in capital assets.
Interest expense decreased $5 million in 2014 compared to 2013.
This was driven by a $16 million reduction resulting from a higher allowance for foreign funds used during construction.
That was partially offset by an increase in interest expense due to higher debt outstanding in 2014.
The increased debt balance was related to the construction of our three new generating plants.
Other income net increased $18 million year-over-year primarily due to a $24 million increase in the allowance for equity funds used during construction on the higher average CWIP balance partially offset by a decrease in earnings from our non-qualified benefit plan trust assets.
Lastly income taxes increased $40 million year-over-year primarily due to an increase in pre-tax income in 2014 over 2013.
The company’s effective tax rate increased to 26% from 17% in 2013.
On Slide 16 we continue to maintain a solid balance sheet including strong liquidity and investment grade credit ratings.
As of December 31 2014 we had $811 million in cash and available credit $685 million of first mortgage bond issuing capacity and a common equity ratio of 44.3%.
Total capital expenditures for 2014 were $948 million including $606 million for the three new generating resources.
To fund these projects in our base business capital expenditures we completed a $305 million 18-month unsecured bank loan and issued $280 million of first mortgage bonds at favorable interest rates.
In January of 2015 we issued $75 million of first mortgage bonds and we used the proceeds to repay $70 million of maturing debt.
This financing plan has allowed us to finance the construction of our new generating resources in a cost effective way.
In regards to our equity forward sale agreement it can provide approximately $270 million to $275 million in funding.
We anticipate physical settlement of the equity forward sale agreement by delivering newly issued shares on or before the agreement’s expiration of June 11 2015.
Moving on to Slide 17 on December 4 2014 the Oregon Public Utility Commission issued an order that when combined with customer credits resulted in an overall increase in customer prices of approximately 1%.
These prices became effective January 1 2015 and reflected return on equity of 9.68% a capital structure of 50% debt and 50% equity a cost of capital of 7.56% a rate base of $3.8 billion and an annual revenue increase of $15 million.
Embedded in the price change was a price decrease related to PGE’s base business customer credits and price increases related to the addition of the Tucannon River Wind Farm and Port Westward Unit 2.
As shown on Slide 18 we are initiating full year 2015 earnings guidance of $2.20 to $2.35 per diluted share.
This guidance is based on the following assumptions: retail delivery growth of approximately 1% average hydro conditions wind generation based on 5 years of historic levels or forecast studies when historical data is not available normal thermal plant operations operating and maintenance costs between $510 million and $530 million depreciation and amortization expense between $300 million and $310 million and capital expenditures of approximately $629 million.
To finance these expenditures and to retire the current portion of our long-term debt we will continue to use the combination of cash flow from operations issuance of new debt and draws on our equity forward sale agreement.
Back to you Jim.
Thanks.
In 2014 we celebrated our 125th anniversary and our performance during the year reflects our employees’ hard work and dedication to our customers.
I am very proud of the work accomplished by the teams across the company in 2014 to achieve many important objectives and we built a strong foundation to start the next 125 years of exceptional service to our customers.
And now operator we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Brian Russo of Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Brian.
Good morning Brian.
If I read the 10-K correctly it looks like you drew down 700 000 common shares at year end 2014 any insight as to what you have done in year-to-date ’15.
And then how we should look at the average share count you are using to compute your EPS guidance? Brian I think we drew down that 700 000 shares in 2013.
Okay.
And we didn’t do anything in 2014 but we are going to drawing down the balance of the equity for in the – before the end of the first half as we had mentioned.
And it’s probably more towards the back half of that as well.
Okay.
So you want to stop short of saying whether you have drawn down anything year-to-date? No we have not drawn down anything year-to-date.
Okay great.
And any thoughts on the average share count? Yes it would be about 84 million shares.
Okay.
And can you just talk a little bit more detail on the 2016 IRP and more specifically your 2020 capital – capacity needs with Boardman replacement power and the increase in the RPS? So Brian this is Jim Piro.
We will – we will go through exact same process we went through at the last IRP.
We will go through a complete vetting of our strategy going forward the difference between our loads and our resources.
Obviously with Boardman dropping out we will have a significant hold that we will have to replace and we will identify what’s the least cost lowest risk way of replacing that resource.
Once we get that vetted and approved by the – or knowledge by the commission in an action plan we would go forward with an RFP.
And similarly like we did before we would include benchmark resources for both potential energy capacity and renewable resources.
The mix of resources will be a very interesting discussion with all our stakeholders as we try to figure out what is that right balance of cost and risk to meet the energy needs of our customers.
To the extent it is the base load resource it would likely be gas but we will try to look at the mixture between a natural gas-fired resources and renewable resources.
Can you quantify the number of megawatts for the three components of energy capacity in renewables? Well if you think of Boardman itself it’s about – our share is about 560 megawatts.
And so that presents a fairly significant hold in our energy needs.
Without prejudging the decision if we replaced it with a natural gas resource it would look like a second unit at Carty of 440 megawatt base load gas-fired resource and at an approximate cost of what Carty is costing us today.
Obviously that would be one of our potential self-build options that we would consider and that would have to be measured against other bids in an RFP.
As for capacity we will have to continue to looking at that to see what the market needs for capacity and our own needs for capacity are.
And that will depend a lot on what we see between now and the later part of this period in terms of customer needs.
On the renewable side we are talking probably a similar type project comparable to Tucannon River Wind Farm about 300 megawatts.
And then again we would do an RFP for that resource.
And again we would try to identify a benchmark resource to include in that bid.
And it would be about the same more or less same cost as Tucannon River if you adjust for inflation.
And then on the dividend policy you somewhat restricted from raising the dividend until forward sale settles in June of this year but it looks like you are kind of at the low end of your 50% to 70% target and I am just wondering what your thoughts are on the dividend? So on the dividend in May we will with the Board revisit our dividend.
At that point we can’t take action because that dividend would be paid after the forward sale agreement ends.
And so we would have the full latitude to adjust the dividend.
We are at the low end of the range.
The Board is very committed to the dividend and it will be a good topic of discussion.
We understand the value of the dividend to our shareholders and you would expect a decision on that after the May Board meeting.
So no insight as to where your target payout is over the next 12 months as your CapEx steps down in ’16? Well as I said we are at the low end.
And we will have to factor all the factors in terms of needs for capital the balance sheet.
All those things go into the analysis and then we will present that to our Board in terms of recommendations.
So I can’t really give you what our thinking is right now but I can tell you that dividend is very important and we will – we understand the importance to our shareholders.
Okay.
And then lastly has there been any proposed modification to the PCAM in the general rate case that you filed yesterday? No it’s – Brian it’s actually in a separate docket that docket is going to start around the March timeframe so we will know more as we go through the summer months.
But that docket is also being narrowly scoped not to look at the asymmetric nature of the dead end.
But it’s being narrowly scoped to look at the recovery of costs associated with meeting the RPS standard.
Got it okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Brian.
Thanks Brian.
Our next question comes from Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks for all the disclosure in detail that you provided in today’s update have one or two questions just about 2015 guidance.
First of all can you give us a little bit of an update of what you expect year-over-year ‘14 to ‘15 in AFUDC and what GAAP tax rate do you assume in your 2015 guidance? For AFUDC about 7.5% will be about the right number to use.
And Michael for the tax rate I guide you more towards an effective tax rate of about 20%.
20% in terms of the impact on the income statement or in terms of cash taxes? As far as the income statement.
Okay.
In AFUDC keep you put that in the dollar millions for us please? No I can’t do that.
Okay.
Directionally down a lot down a little down not at all? I can’t do that I mean right now AFUDC as you know is dependent on the CWIP balances.
So it’s the timing of our investments as we go out over time.
So it just dispends on how the plants play out and how we make other capital expenditures across the year.
Okay great.
It’s also dependent upon – go ahead.
I am sorry.
I guess my other question is O&amp;M related your ‘14 to ‘15 I mean in 2014 and 2015 O&amp;M implies an increase of about – year-over-year increase using the midpoint of about 7% that’s a little bit of an outlier when I think about your peer group and kind of what a lot of the other companies are saying about O&amp;M and O&amp;M management can you talk a little bit about what the drivers of that year-over-year increase are? A couple of things as Jim gets the detail obviously we are adding two new generating resources into our – into service and that’s having a big impact.
We have also increased Boardman – our size of Boardman and so that has part of the impact.
So there are a couple things going on there that are kind of one-time step ups.
And those were all recovered in the rate case.
And I believe Jim correct me if I am wrong but the O&amp;M is pretty consistent with what we had in the rate case filing for 2014 – 2015.
Yes those are the exact drivers.
Yes.
Got it.
And then finally and I want to piggyback off of an earlier question.
When you get pass 2015 your CapEx declines a decent bit and just trying to think about as you have a couple of year period in between spending on Carty and spending on the wind plant and then potentially incremental CapEx down the road how are you think about kind of the use of your free cash flow CapEx comes down D&amp;A comes up and kind of which side of the balance sheet you would potentially use it on post-2015 or is it possible that CapEx gets accelerated earlier into the ‘16 ‘17 timeframe? So a couple of things going on there we still haven’t got good visibility to ‘17 and ‘18 for capital expenditures.
We are looking at where we can do reinforcements to the system.
We are looking at some smart grid investments.
We also are looking at potential investments in natural gas to hedge our long-term position.
So there is a couple of things moving out there.
That’s all getting factored into what our future CapEx expenditure is what the impact on customer prices might be and also what our dividend might be also.
So all those things are being factored in and we really haven’t come to a complete conclusion but we are looking at a number of items.
This gives us the opportunity to catch up on some of the work we like to do on our transmission and distribution system as well some of our power plants to put them in good stead.
So there is a couple of things going on there as we take this kind of hiatus between this construction program and looking forward to the next IRP action plan.
And so those are the things we will be looking at.
Hopefully as we go through this year we will be able to give a little more visibility to those out-years but we are trying to make sure that we provide ourselves enough room in our balance sheet in our equity so that if we do decide to construct additional plants we will have that equity capacity without having to issue stock to finance that next set of projects if we were fortunate to win those RFP bids.
Got it.
Thank you guys.
Much appreciate it and appreciate all the insight today.
Thanks Michael.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Andy Levi of Avon Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Andy.
How are you doing? Good.
Great thanks.
Couple of questions I guess most of them asked though but just on the rate base the $4.5 billion for ‘16 I guess in this slide that you had in December that was going to be a ‘17 number? So is it higher than it was going to be? Yes the issue there is just timing of Carty.
Carty is coming in in ‘16 and I think we just sliced it to ‘17 before we thought we give better visibility.
That $4.5 billion occurs when Carty goes into service in the second quarter of 2016.
So we just thought it was more accurate to reflect that in ‘16 versus kind of in ‘17 which was also true but it was accelerated with Carty going into service in Q2 ‘16.
Got it.
And then also back to that December packet you have given CapEx out to ‘18 but I don’t see it in this packet I guess went up to – maybe that’s in the 10-K I haven’t looked at the 10-K yet? It’s in the 10-K and we were just trying to give a closer year end picture.
Okay.
And again I wouldn’t – as we mentioned earlier we are still looking at ‘17 and ‘18 in terms of where there are opportunities to invest in the system that would provide value to our customers and provide better reliability.
So we continue working on ‘17 and ‘18.
We have provided you in the 10-K our base capital forecast but there maybe other things that we have not yet got approval for and we are still working on.
Got it.
And then on the dividend is there a date for that board meeting that you can share with us or is it just May? It’s right around the annual meeting whenever we have our annual meeting.
Yes it’s May 6.
May 6.
May 6 thank you.
I’ll put that in my calendar.
We look forward to that.
And then just back on Boardman and the expansion of or – just the 300 megawatts of potential new wind.
I think I missed it what would be the timing of those two? Well Boardman ceases coal operation at the end of 2020 and that puts a pretty significant hole in our energy supply.
And so if it’s determined at a natural gas-fired resource as the least cost lowest risk which I would say it tends to look that way today then obviously can change but that tends to be the way it would look.
We would like to get that project up mid-2020 mid to late 2020.
So it will be available for 2021.
On the wind resource we have some flexibility because we do bank credits and we have some ability to delay the actual construction of the wind farm and it could be anywhere in the 2020 to 2022 timeframe.
Okay.
And so construction on Boardman would begin in 2019 or? Yes Boardman replacement those typically are 2-year projects so sometime in the 2019 if we were to win the RFP and our benchmark resource was chosen as the lowest cost least cost resourced least risk resourced we would then start construction probably in the ‘19 timeframe.
Okay.
And then the same I guess for the wind it’s about a 2-year lag? Yes probably not maybe a little shorter than that but approximately there.
And as you know Carty was – is being designed and cited as two unit plants so that we have adequate space there to build the second unit if that was selected.
Okay.
And then back to Michael Lapides’ question on just free cash flow and I understand that you may end up filling in some CapEx to deal with – that you haven’t identified yet because I think the cash flow the free cash flow is several hundred million dollars by the time you get to kind of the ‘16/17 after paying the dividend and your current CapEx forecast.
So I guess the three different options are – I mean I guess you have some small debt issues that come due.
Let me just see here.
Here they are.
You have like a 6.8% due in 2016 a small item $67 million and then you have some debt due in ‘17 also around $60 million.
So I guess you have the option of paying those down versus refinancing especially the 6.8%.
You have the option to buyback stock which is out there and then you have more CapEx.
Is there some type of priority and if I am leaving out something please let me know of the three choices but is there some type of priority and then the dividend of course but as far as what you are thinking there on what to do with the cash? Well I guess in terms of priority I think we would like to continue to invest in the system where it makes sense and it provides reliability to our customers.
We have put off some investments that we could have done in the near-term just because of the big construction project in our three plants.
So we will look at that first in where there are opportunities there but we have to ensure those kinds of projects make sense for our customers.
So that’s our first priority.
And then from that we have some flexibility on letting the equity ratio rise a little bit.
If we think that we are moving forward towards another construction plant we would like to let the equity rise a little bit maybe above the 50% to give us some room to be able to finance the next set of construction so that’s probably our second option.
Probably our last option just from my perspective would be buyback stock.
Okay.
And we can work with the dividend too to help size that but that’s in the mix.
Got it.
And how about debt pay down? Well obviously if we decide to let the equity ratio go that’s what we would do.
We wouldn’t want to keep cash on the balance sheet.
That’s pretty dilutive.
Right right.
Okay so that cash will be put toward to work.
It’s just a matter of where I guess? Right.
We will look at all three of the things you talk about but our focus really would be on CapEx and sizing the balance sheet to prepare for the next construction program if we are successful.
Okay.
Unless interest rates actually go back up and you can actually earn 4% or 5% in the bank that would have even been I remember that.
I am not sure I like that right now yes.
I was just looking at my past taxes I used to like make money that way as we get in the tax season.
Okay thank you.
Thank you very much.
You guys had a great year and very happy with everything.
Appreciate it.
Well thanks Andy.
Our next question comes from Chip Richardson of Wedbush.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Chip.
Congratulations on a good year and 125 years of supplying Portland with power.
And I think it’s particularly encouraging that your plants are coming in on time and under bid.
Has any thought been given to adding to your very very small geothermal renewable energy deal? It seems that that’s the one potential baseload renewable and the plant that you own a small bit of apparently has had 97% availability in recent quarters? I didn’t actually know we had a geothermal I don’t think we do.
Yes.
I saw you own 1% of a plant at Raft River Idaho or 1% of the output? No if we get close to anything like that it’s probably coming through a QF.
So it will be a power purchase agreement.
And I don’t think we have any geothermal.
Bill can check into that for you but I don’t think we do.
Geothermal is an interesting resource.
It is base load.
It has capacity.
We like those kinds of things and there are some areas in Oregon that you could build geothermal.
The challenge has always been that those kinds of projects tend to be a national forest or areas where it’s really tough to get transmission into.
We have one geothermal site that we have with just potential to develop but it’s really really difficult to develop those.
And a fair amount of risk when you drill holes into the ground to make sure that you get a – you don’t get a dry hole.
So we continue looking at those really haven’t found anything that’s cost effective but as we go through an RFP for new renewable resources clearly geothermal will be things that could be bid into the marketplace if they were cost effective.
They would have to compete with wind resources and but obviously you have to understand geothermal would come with capacity value.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Good morning congratulations on a solid year.
Thanks Paul.
Good morning.
Thanks Paul Can you – what’s your assumed effective tax rate in your guidance? We are assuming an effective tax rate of 20%.
20% okay.
And then in the fourth quarter how was the capacity factor at the wind assets compared to kind of long-term average fourth quarter? Jim is looking at the data for you.
In the fourth quarter we were looking at on an average of about 19% which was about 29%.
So we didn’t have as much wind as we otherwise would have liked in the fourth quarter.
For the year though it is pretty close to budgeted? For the full year we were looking at about 29% little over 29%.
And what we end up with.
So we are pretty much on budget.
With some of the challenges we are having on wind is the timing of the wind and that’s really can make any impact on our cost structure and actually wind cost us some money last year relative with what was filed to the AUT.
Now we true that up over time with the 5-year historical average but in the year you can’t have differences.
And we are still challenged it’s kind of like hydro a little bit when the wind blows a lot energy prices are lower and when the wind doesn’t blow the prices are higher.
And that’s not necessary symmetrical something we are trying to deal within that while we continue to pursue this a mechanism to try to true up the wind and because we have so much wind in the Northwest that exacerbates the problem.
They will blow more at night than it will blow during the day.
I’m sorry if you answered this already but when do you file your next IRP? We will file it – we will work on it this year.
We will file draft for consideration.
But the final IRP will be filed with the commission in mid-2016.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thanks Paul.
There are no more questions at this time.
I will now turn it to Jim Piro for closing remarks.
Thank you.
We appreciate your interest in Portland General Electric and invite you to join us when we report our first quarter 2015 results in late-April.
Thanks and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your attendance.
You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Portland General Electric Company's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today is Tuesday April 28 2015.
This call is being recorded and as such all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions].
For opening remarks I would like to turn the conference call over to Portland General Electric's Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Bill Valach.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Jonathan and good morning everyone.
I am pleased that you're able to join us today.
Before we begin our discussion this morning I would like to remind you that we have prepared a presentation slide deck to supplement our discussions and we will be referencing those slides as we go through the call.
The slides are available on our website at portlandgeneral.com.
Referring to Slide 2 I would also like to make our customary statements regarding Portland General Electric's written and oral disclosures and commentary.
There will be statements in this call that are not based on historical fact and as such consult to forward-looking statements under current law.
These statements are subject to factors that may cause the actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made today.
And for a description of some of the factors that may occur that could cause such differences the company requests that you read our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
Portland General Electric's first quarter earnings were released via our earnings press release and the Form 10-Q before the market opened today and the release is available at our Web site at portlandgeneral.com.
The company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise and the Safe Harbor Statement should be incorporated as part of any transcript of this call.
Moving to Slide 3 as shown on that slide within our discussion today are Jim Piro President &amp; CEO and Jim Lobdell Senior Vice President of Finance CFO &amp; Treasurer.
Following these prepared remarks we will open our lines up for your questions.
And now it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Jim Piro.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Welcome to Portland General Electric's first quarter earnings call.
On today's call I will provide an overview of our financial and operating performance give an update on the economy in our operating areas and discuss construction progress on our new Carty Generating Station.
I will then turn the call over to Jim Lobdell who will provide more details on our financial performance general rate case and earnings guidance.
As presented on Slide 4 we reported net income of $50 million or $0.62 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2015 compared with net income of $58 million or $0.73 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2014.
Net income was down due to extremely mild weather conditions this winter which impacted retail loads and revenues.
As you can see on Slide 5 this was unusual weather for our service areas Oregon experiencing the warmest winter season on record.
Heating [degree] days as measured at the Portland airport were down with a 20% from the 15 year average this compared to the first quarter of 2014 which experienced close to average weather.
As a result first quarter 2015 energy deliveries to residential and commercial customers were down 11% and 1.2% respectively while industrial deliveries were up 9% versus the first quarter of 2014.
Overall this resulted in a quarter-over-quarter decrease in deliveries of 3.5%.
PG is revising 2015 earnings guidance down by $0.15 from the previously reported range of $2.20 to $2.35 per diluted share to $2.05 to $2.20 per diluted share due to lower retail loads from warmer weather in the first quarter which reduced earnings by $0.20 per share.
This guidance reduction also include some temporary reductions in our operating cost related to economic dispatch of our power plant lower weather related activities and other operations and maintenance.
These temporary cost reductions however will not compromise our commitment to employee and public safety and we will continue to move forward with our capital projects to ensure we are well positioned to meet our customers’ long-term energy and reliability needs.
At the same time our continued strong operating performance ongoing economic growth in our operating area and the management of our operating cost has put us in a good position to end the year within our revised earnings guidance range.
Jim will share further details on revised guidance during his update.
Now for an operational update on Slide 6 we delivered excellent operating performance in the first quarter of 2015.
Our generating plant’s availability was 98% and we effectively managed the cost of our power supply portfolio.
Additionally customer satisfaction remains high.
Based on the latest survey results reported by market strategies and TQS research PGE now ranks in the top [Justdial] in overall customer satisfaction across all categories residential general business and key customers.
Let’s move on to Slide 7 for an update on the economy.
Oregon’s economy remained strong.
Oregon employment and population growth continue to outpace that of the U.S.
As result of Portland metro region has become one of the fastest growing areas for software development companies in both the growth in numbers of local startups and large Silicon Valley companies locating offices in our region.
PGE’s average customer account increased approximately 1% over the past year.
Oregon’s employment growth continues to outpace in the U.S.
in the first quarter of 2015 Oregon employment grew at an average rate of approximately 3% adding more than 56 000 jobs primarily in the manufacturing professional and business services and healthcare sectors.
The unemployment rate in our service area for March was 4.8% comparing favorably the 5.5% for the U.S.
and 5.4% in Oregon.
Although retail loads were down 3.5% quarter-over-quarter when adjusted for weather energy deliveries were up approximately 4%.
This increase in deliveries was driven primarily by strong growth in the industrial sector due to expansion in high-tech industry with additional gains in transportation and equipment manufacturing.
Based upon first quarter weather adjusted load results and current economic indicators PGE remains on track for projected year-over-year weather adjusted load growth of 1%.
This growth reflected an approximate 1.5% reduction due to energy efficiency.
On Slide 8 I’d like to share progress on the construction of the Carty Generating Station.
Our 440 megawatt natural gas base load resource under-construction in Boardman Oregon.
Construction is on schedule and on budget.
And the plant is expected to be placed into service during the second quarter of 2016 at an estimated cost of $450 million excluding AFDC.
Carty’s gas turbine and generator have been installed.
The steam turbine and generator have been shipped and welding on the heat recovery steam generator piping is ongoing.
Overall construction on the project is approximately 50% complete.
Slide 9 provides the summary of the company’s capital expenditures from 2013 to 1015.
With the addition of Tucannon River Wind Farm and Port Westward Unit 2 in 2014 the Carty Generating Station in the second quarter of 2016 and other base capital spending we expect the rate base increase of $1.4 billion resulting in a rate base of approximately $4.5 billion in 2016.
As we plan to meet our customer’s future energy needs we just kicked off the 2016 integrated resource planning process with a public meeting held earlier this month.
As outlined on Slide 10 this integrated resource plan will evaluate the need for additional energy efficiency demand side actions energy resources to meet both customer growth and replacement of our Boardman plant which will cease the use of coal at the end of 2020.
Renewable resources to be Oregon’s renewable portfolio standard of 20% by 2020 and capacity to meet our customers winter and summer pick needs and integrate new renewable resources.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Jim Lobdell who will provide more details on our financial results for the quarter our 2016 general rate case and revised guidance.
Thank you Jim.
Turning to Slide 11 as Jim mentioned for the first quarter of 2015 we recorded net income of 50 million or $0.62 per diluted share compared with net income of 58 million or $0.73 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2014.
The decrease in earnings was a result of significantly lower retail revenue due to lower energy deliveries.
Decreased energy deliveries were driven by significantly warmer weather during the first quarter of 2015 compared to the first quarter of 2014.
As a result revenues did not fully cover expected increases in the operating expenses thereby decreasing net income for the quarter when compared to the first quarter of 2014.
Moving on to Slide 12 total revenue for the first quarter of 2015 decreased 20 million to 473 million this decrease was primarily driven by a $22 million decrease in retail revenues resulting from a $16 million decrease from lower energy deliveries due to significantly warmer weather and a $6 million decrease from various supplemental tariff changes relating to the amortization of regulatory liabilities.
Total actual energy deliveries for the first quarter of 2015 were 3.5% lower than the first quarter of 2014 an 11% decline in residential deliveries accounted for the majority of the decrease and was primarily offset by a 9% increase in industrial deliveries.
Commercial deliveries were lower than the first quarter of 2014 by 1%.
We continue expect full year 2015 weather adjusted load growth of 1% net of energy efficiency.
Purchased power and fuel expense decreased 23 million during the first quarter of 2015 compared with the first quarter of 2014 and consisted of 20 million from an 11% decrease in the average variable power cost per megawatt hour and 3 million from a 2% decrease in total system load which includes wholesale sales.
Economic displacement of our thermal generating assets favorable hydro conditions in the quarter and increased wind generation as a result of the addition of the Tucannon River Wind Farm all contributed to lower average variable power cost per megawatt hour.
Through March energy received from wind resources fell short of the annual update tariff projected level by 36% impacting both energy production and PTC's receipt.
Net variable power costs which consist of purchased power and fuel expense net of wholesale sales decreased 25 million for the first quarter of 2015 compared to the first quarter of 2014.
Net variable power costs were 2 million below the PCAM baseline this quarter as lower wind production was offset by lower gas prices and economic displacement of our thermal plants this compares to 3 million below the baseline for the first quarter of 2014.
Moving on to Slide 13 generation transmission distribution and administrative cost totaled a 122 million for the first quarter of 2015 an increase of 14 million from the first quarter of 2014.
The increase in operations and maintenance expense primarily consisted of four key items $6 million increase in information and technology expense $3 million increase in expense due to the addition of the Port Westward 2 Tucannon River Wind Farm and the increased ownership interest in the Boardman Plant $2 million increase due to the change in timing of the annual maintenance outage at Boardman in 2015 combined with the unplanned outage at Colstrip Unit 4 in the first quarter of 2014 and a $2 million increase due to insurance settlements received in 2014 not present in 2015.
These increases were in line with improved cost in our 2015 general rate case.
Depreciation and amortization was flat quarter-over-quarter and was impacted primarily by $6 million in higher expense in the first quarter of 2015 resulting from capital additions offset by a $15 million reduction in amortization of regulatory liabilities which corresponded to a reduction in revenues.
Total interest expense increased 5 million quarter-over-quarter with 4 million from an increase in the average balanced of debt outstanding and 1 million from the lower allowance for borrowed funds used during construction.
Income tax expense decreased 10 million quarter-over-quarter lower pre-tax income contributed to a $7 million reduction in income tax expense in 2015 while the timing and recognition of state and federal tax credits primarily accounted for the remainder of the reduction.
Moving on to Slide 14 in early February PGE filed its 2016 general rate case.
The key items of the case are a return on equity of 9.9% a capital structure of 50% debt and 50% equity a cost of capital of 7.67% and a rate base of 4.5 billion including Carty.
The estimated net increase in annual revenues is 66 million net of customer credits and supplemental tariff updates this approximates a 3.7% overall increase in customer prices which includes a 1% price decrease in January of 2016 and a 4.7% increase when Carty’s placed in the service.
In May we will enter in the settlement conferences followed by staff and intervener testimony filed in June.
PGE expect the OPUC issue a final order with approved price changes before the end of 2015.
Moving on the Slide 15.
We continue to maintain a solid balance sheet including adequate liquidity and investment grade credit ratings.
As of March 31 2015 we had 483 million in cash available short term credit and letter of credit capacity.
826 million of first mortgage bond issuance capacity and a common to equity ratio of 44.1%.
During the first quarter of 2015 we determine that 500 million in aggregate revolving credit is sufficient to meet the company’s liquidity needs accordingly in March we reduced our revolver capacity from 700 million to 500 million and extended the maturity to November 2019.
The company continues to maintain additional letter of credit facilities totaling 60 million.
During the first quarter of 2015 PGE had the following long-term debt transactions.
In January the company issued 75 million of 3.55% first mortgage bonds due in 2030 repaid 70 million of 3.46% first mortgage bonds and in February PGE repaid 50 million of long-term bank loans.
In April we priced 70 million of new 20 year first mortgage bonds at 3.5%.
The bonds will be issued in May with proceeds used to redeem 67 million of existing bonds.
For 2015 PGE expects to fund estimated capital expenditures and maturity of long-term debt with cash from operations issuance of debt securities of approximately 400 million and issuance of equity securities under the equity forward sale agreement which can provide approximately 270 million in funding.
We plan to have fully drawn on the equity forward sale agreement by the contract expiration of June 11 2015.
In regards to the company’s quarterly dividend we are in the process of evaluating both our dividend policy and payout and we’ll be presenting our recommendation to the board at the May 6th meeting for their considerations.
Moving on to Slide 16 an earnings guidance PGE is lowering 2015 guidance from $2.20 to $2.35 per diluted share to $2.05 to $2.20 per diluted share.
As Jim discussed earlier in the call the decrease in guidance is due to significantly lower retail revenues from warmer weather which impacted first quarter 2015 financial results by approximately $0.20 per diluted share.
This guidance reduction includes temporary reductions of operating costs and therefore we are not providing updated guidance on operating and maintenance expense for 2015.
This revise guidance is also based on the following additional assumptions.
Remainder of the year load growth in line with annual weather adjusted growth of 1% over 2014 below average hydro conditions due to near record low snow-pack resulting in current run-off forecast of 79% normal for all PGE owned and purchase hydro; normal thermal plant and wind operations for the remainder of the year; depreciation and amortization expense between 300 million and 310 million and capital expenditures of approximately 609 million.
Back to you Jim.
Thanks.
In summary while we were challenged by the impact of significantly warmer weather in the first quarter we continue to focus on successful execution of initiatives that drive value for customers and shareholders including delivering operational excellence by meeting our 2015 performance target continuing construction of the Carty Generating Station achieving on-time and on-budget results achieving a fair and reasonable outcome in our 2015 general rate case and working collaboratively with all of our stakeholders to prepare our 2016 integrated resource plan and its associated action plan to meet our customers’ future energy needs using resources that provide the best long term balance of cost and risk.
And now operator we’re ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Michael Weinstein UBS.
Your question please.
I have a couple questions.
One is about the tax credit from the quarter I’m just wondering if you could explain little bit more about that what the assumptions for the rest of the year? When we look at the -- are you talking about the PTCs Michael? Yes I guess I’m looking at the quarterly -- on Slide 13 the income taxes went from 20 to 10 and I think you said something about tax credit.
Yeah the major driver has to do with the production tax credits and the fact that the wind is down so when we're figuring out GAAP taxes we're taking that into consideration.
Got you okay so it affects that.
And this is more of a broad question on on the IRP and I am wondering if you could kind of give some color on how you are thinking is starting to shape up on this? I realize it's early but I am wondering if the ongoing drought condition that's been going on for several years has affected the variability of hydro to such an extent that it might need more back up thermal generation on the system than might have been previously anticipated as you're putting to form up your ideas for the IRP I am just wondering if that's something you are looking at? Well it's always a consideration; we use the average hydro for the last 60 years in terms of trying to project what hydro is going forward with.
The climate change impact I think there is some view that hydro will be lower than what we have previously seen.
I don’t know if we’re addressing this specifically our reliance on hydro is somewhat declining as our contracts on the mid [Colombia] become smaller I mean it's not that we've considered but you know we've had this history of using long-term average and we’ll continue to trend and watch that I don’t think we would have a huge effect on our order load resource balance but it's something we do need to consider as we go forward as well as what the impacts of weather could be from those same climate issues.
Alright.
And on -- and similar vein the I've noticed that the increase there's been a sharp increase in the amount of purchased power as a percentage of total resources in the quarter.
Just looking at that I am wondering if going forward if more purchased power is needed to support lower thermal or lower or even in the different wind condition I am wondering if at some point you get more imputed rate base or imputed debt calculation from regulators for the credit or basically buying more purchased power and putting that to rate base? Most of those purchased in the short-term market as we have economic displacement of our thermal resources and that was really primarily because of the warm weather in the first quarter loads just never materialized and so the market heat rate was lower and what we saw lower gas prices in the market so we were able to displace our thermal resources.
So the short-term purchase don’t tend to get imputed against us in terms of our debt calculation to the extent we ended into long-term purchase agreement than the [indiscernible] agencies do look at that as imputed debt and we have to take that into consideration when we look at our capital structure but today the short-term purchase are really just economic displacement opportunities based on the conditions we've seen this year Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc.
Your question please.
Could you may be give us a little flavor as to kind of what you are thinking with regards to the dividend policy I guess you are going to formally discuss with the board on May 6th? We've had these discussions quite a bit with many of the folks and you know we have a policy with a range in terms of guidance that's pretty consistent with what the market place is.
We tend to be at the low end of that range and so that's the conversation we're going to have with our Board around whether we would even want to move the guidance given our increase in earnings and our low payout ratio.
So all those things have to be factored in as well as future capital expenditure.
So just stay tuned till mid-May when we have our Board meeting and release our dividend.
But clearly it's an important issue for the Board and we understand we want to reward our shareholders for investing in the company and and we will move our dividend accordingly.
Okay we will stay tuned.
And then the can you give a little more detail on the refund I guess it was 4 million in the quarter is that kind of an out of period thing or should is that non-recurring? It's the refund or you're talking about the supplemental tariff changes? I guess it was 6 million of tariff changes and 4 million of that was a refund or? Trojan decommissioning yeah we had over accrued for Trojan decommissioning as part of the last rate case we decided to amortize some of that over collection back to customers and so that was part of our price change that occurred on January 1.
Is that ongoing? Yeah it goes to this year and then a couple of years after that it was a three year amortization period is that Jim? Yeah.
Three year amortization period of credit now we even at current 2015 rate case have requested to accelerate that to two years and we'll see how the commissions addresses that but that was included in our 2016 rate case to accelerate that amortization back to customers.
And then on the wind was 36% below -- wind production was 36 below expectations -- 36%? Yeah it was a terrible quarter for wind 1st January was off 60% against our budget forecast and February was like 35% overall we were down 36% which as Jim mentioned has two impact you have replace that lost wind in the market place and then we also lost the production tax credit the combination of those two just by themselves in isolation was about $0.08 a share.
And is that was that fully captured in the first quarter? That was first quarter results right we offset some of that as Jim mentioned on the power side we were able to offset some of that with the economic displacement of our plants and lower gas prices the PTC reduction hit us right on the tax return in terms of what we recorded for tax.
Had we had normal winds our taxes would have been lower by roughly $3.7 million something like that.
So we had material impact in the first quarter.
So what again drove the income tax reduction by $10 million if you had worst PTCs.
We had more PTCs because Tucannon River Wind Farm went into service then we have lower pre-tax income.
So Tucannon offset it volumetrically.
Yes volumetrically that’s correct but down -- it would have been lower we had normal wind.
Understood.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Russo from Ladenburg Thalmann.
Your question please.
Maybe you can just talk a little bit more about the guidance it look like you took a $0.20 hit on weather but you revise the guidance only by $0.15 is that $0.05 offset the temporary OEM expense controls? Yes.
Basically we try to look at our operating cost and we have some economic displacement of our plans and just trying to be conscious of our operating cost during the year just given the very warm weather we saw in the first quarter.
Okay.
And then just to confirm the revise guidance seems to below normal hydro upcoming season from April to September? Yes it does Brian.
Okay.
So can we just talk a little bit more about what the PCAM assumption is? Or it seems I think you’re going to be below the base line and maybe just talk a little bit more about the kind of dynamics of net variable power cost in the PCAM and why you are able to manage those costs so effectively this year? Let me take a couple of them in the first quarter we actually had above normal hydro.
We have lot of rain instead of snow so we actually had a benefit from hydro in the first quarter that was offset by lower wind and then with the warmer weather in the first quarter and lower gas prices we were able to economically displace our resources.
So that helped us to optimize our power supply portfolio and as a result we’re under the PCAM.
As we look through the rest of the year a lot of it will depend on how the hydro shows up kind of when the market prices what kind of loads we see in California whether there is any heat this summer.
So there is a lot of variability as we go into the summer season but right now we’ve assumed the hydro conditions that have forecasted going forward in this kind of normal power supply activity.
Yes to give a little bit more color on the hydro situation.
So we are mostly dependent on the mid-Columbia system versus some of the smaller systems mid sea almost provides 50% of the hydro that we have while the snow-pack in down for the region in pacific northwest it actually was at more normal levels up in Canada and while we had little snow-pack we had a normal year if not above normal year for precipitation.
So the rain the precipitation is offsetting in the hydro system so that allowed the reservoir levels to be a little bit higher.
So while 79% sounds like a big number or big change.
There are still some benefits and as Jim pointed out the wildcard for us really is whether the Canadian is going to do with our reservoirs when you consider the critical hydro conditions in California because that water has to flow downstream so it will go through the dams that we’re dependent on.
Understood.
And can you just talk about gas reserve acquisition opportunities and the timing of those opportunities? We’re still looking at it.
We’ve been talking to number of consultants looking at where gas prices are whether there is an opportunistic attempt to acquire natural gas.
We’ve had some conversations with the commission in terms of the what the process might look like still very much in the informative stage any decision probably won’t occur not that till later in the second half of the year as we can see.
We’re really looking closely at what other utilities have done what the ups and downs are obviously Northwest natural has done a transaction in that space.
We’ve talked to number of the peoples who supported that transaction to understand it.
So we haven’t made a firm decision.
We’re still looking at the economics.
We think it for favorable time to do that but we haven’t finished our due diligence and just trying to understand the economics and the value for our customers of acquiring gas giving where the natural gas prices are.
So we’re still positive on the idea.
We haven’t discontinuing work in that area and still moving forward but my guess is just giving the process we have to go through with both eternally and with the regulators it will be in the second half of the year where we get more normal.
We have introduced the topic in the integrated resource plan so I don’t think that will be the decision making process we’ll use.
So no target of percentage owned versus --? No.
Okay.
We’re trying to find what’s the right strategy and how to layer it in and how would you do that best.
And what we’re trying to do is managing the volatility of natural gas for the benefits of our customers and trying to figure out that the right volumes in amount to do that is what we’re really working on right now and as I said discussing with stakeholders and people who put those kinds of transactions together.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Weisel from Macquarie.
Your question please.
On the last conference call there were bunch of questions about CapEx in 2017 and 2018 and obviously your question addressed that but there are also a few other buckets of potential spending.
When might we get some more visibility into that spending in the year after Carty would that not come until the next 10-K or maybe we’ll see more details on some of those other programs throughout the year? The process as we’ve discussed before is we have to get through the integrated resource planning and agree on what the action plan is for new resources.
The action plan will clearly address the needs for new -- for more energy efficiency demand side management.
Then the questions what are the additional resources we need both customer growth as well as replace Broadman in 2020 all that will be included in the action they would have to be acknowledge by the commissions probably not until 2017 timeframe.
Once that action plan is acknowledged and to the extent there are new resources to be added which we think for sure will have to add more renewable resources to meet the 2020 target.
We think we may need to add both energy and capacity resources.
To the extent those are acknowledged then we would conduct RFP a request for proposals like we did before.
And as I’ve mentioned on this call before the company would likely enter its own self build options for both renewable resources as well as capacity and energy resources and then to the extent we are successful and we were the lowest cost option for customers than we have more visibility to additional capital expenditures.
So it is much of the process similar to what we went through before and I know there is a little frustration there wasn’t clarity right away but that’s the process we followed in Oregon we think that produces the best result for customers ensures that we produce resources with least cost lowest risk and then when we go to the regulatory process for cost recovery as we’ve gone with Tucannon and for Port Westward 2 and like with Carty.
We really have met that standard around prudency.
So it is the process I think you have to just kind of work through the process so there won’t really be real visibility on precisely what those capital expenditures look like until the first glimpse of that will be in 2016 when we show that proposed action plan that the commission might acknowledge.
But even there will be clarity of whether the company would make those investments or are they provided by the market place.
It’s not until we complete the RFPs where we’ll have real clarity on what those resources are.
Now I’ll just say that in the last bid we have produced three very very good resources for customers with cost lowest risk and we’re coming in both on-time and below budget.
So I think we’ve demonstrated to our consumer groups that we can effectively compete with market and provide great resources that provide long-term value for our customers and shareholders.
All right.
I appreciate the details recap to the RFP but that’s not quite what I was asking about.
I meant during the brick years in between like between now and then so things like you talk about the customer information system smart meters the ownership of some gas assets; I meant more in terms of those 2017-2018 potential project.
Fill the hole between the two so those are -- we are looking at that right now the gas resource is potential opportunity there.
We are looking at smart grade options we’re going to be discussing with the Board in June at our retreat about where those market investments might be and how we can do them.
We’re looking at putting a new a [radial] system which is not insignificant in terms of capital cost.
We’ve got to deal with the transformers that have PCBs and replace those.
So probably later this year we’ll have more clarity on those middle year’s [interposal] capital expenditure programs.
So what we’re trying to do is look at this timeframe and take the opportunity to look at our transmission and distribution system and where we can provide additional reliability for our customers or address issues that we think need to be improved.
So we don’t really have exact clarity but we’re looking at the capital expenditures during that period and we’ll have that clarity probably in the third quarter I’d guess probably third or maybe fourth quarter as we put our budgets together and take them to the Board.
Okay great.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
And then combining that with the dividend conversation certainly we’re expecting a near term update in the next week or two but how much will the longer term dividend policy depend on those types of CapEx opportunities in other words should we expect to see more than one year of an update in next month or will the longer term growth rate or whatever it might look like not come until a year from now? I think we’re going to provide clarity obviously on year whether we provide longer term guidance on the growth I just don’t think we’re going to get there.
We’re still trying to balance what the capital needs are.
We’d like to be able to finance our capital problem with internally generating capital.
So as we look at our multiyear capital programs we’re trying to size the dividend to fit there to keep our capital structure 50% debt 50% equity.
So all those have been taken into account I do not expect that we will give long-term guidance on the growth rate of the dividend but more just clarity on the dividend for the year and then readjust that each year as we move forward.
Make sense.
Thank you very much.
One very quick accounting or book keeping one the PTC impact the effect on the effective tax rate I think last quarter you talked about 20% for the year I heard you where you said 3.7 million? So should we think more or like 22% 23% for the year for the full year? I think we’re actually looking at about 20% effective tax rate for 2015.
There is no impact from PTCs? No there is an impact but that’s factored there are a lot of moving parts in there.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Sarah Akers Wells Fargo.
Your question please.
A couple of questions on O&amp;M I think I missed the explanation for the absence of the O&amp;M guidance I know you you are baking in some temporary cost cuts but can you just go over that again why wouldn’t have a number this year for this quarter? Yeah Sarah given the fact that we've got a lot of year ahead of us and we're not quite sure how the weather is going to play out for us whether it would be hydro power supply loads and so on and so forth.
We're just not feeling comfortable getting out guidance at this particular point in time for O&amp;M.
We're going to focus on the cost structure of the company and as Jim had pointed earlier try and make sure that we're doing all the right things to be able to deliver value and reliability to our customers but at the same time being very prudent about our expenditures given the fact that loads are down so much.
Okay got it.
And then looking Q1 there is a 13% or so increase versus last year in O&amp;M and I know that quite a bit above the original O&amp;M guidance trend but you know you talk there some of the puts and takes I guess generally speaking with Q1 O&amp;M was that in line with the original expectations or is that 13% unexpected? You know that was in line with the cost coming out of the general rate case -- the 2015 case.
Okay and then last.
You got to you got to keep in mind we've got Boardman we've got Tucannon and also we've added new resources.
Port Westward 2.
And we got Port Westward 2 as well.
But so those would all have an impact on the full year correct so there must be other offsets that would bring up 13% down to to a more normalized level for the remainder of the year? They are all factored in there.
Okay.
And then just one clarifying question on the PCAM so even with the below average hydro forecast you're not expecting a negative PCAM impact for the full year is that correct? That's correct.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Barnett from Morningstar.
Your question please.
Thanks for the guidance around the PCAM that's certainly helpful.
I am just curious in terms of operations given the commodity situation -- the hydro situation where did you see your gas capacity factors run during the first quarter? The capacity factors associated with the plants I don’t have those specific ones with me but obviously we're constantly looking at the opportunity as to where the heat rate is in the market place compared to our resources so I would anticipate that it would pretty low given the displacements that had occurred during the quarter.
Okay.
Because the variability associated with those facilities was high.
Right okay.
Then you talked some about the the different factors influencing hydro for the rest of the year but with your runoff projections for the rest of 2015 can you may be give us a a sense for how those compared with 2013 -- I mean 2014 and 2013? Well 2014 would have been an above normal hydro year.
Slight above.
Slightly above normal so we would have seen higher capabilities.
One of things that people need to keep in mind and when they are thinking about the hydro system is the first quarter is really the high value quarter as far as the value of hydro coming through then you end up in the shoulder in the spring and then once you get to the July beyond period it's really just about regulation.
So you're going to move water through the system so it's less of an impact at that particulate point in time as you move through.
When we look at the hydro that we have as I said earlier the bulk of it is on the mid sea with about 18% of it coming from Clackamas and 27% coming from the Deschutes and both of the river systems are down quite a bit.
So overall we think they are manageable.
And the other thing to keep in mind is you know in a good hydro year the capacity of a dam has to run pretty high the generators have to run otherwise you would be spilling it over.
When you don’t have a good hydro year a benefit that comes out of the system is you've got a lot of flexibility in the system so more capacity so it creates more opportunity for managing variable energy resources and other fluctuations in the system.
So it's a Rubik Cube that's for sure.
Well thanks for the thanks for your comments on that.
Thank you.
Our next question is a follow up from the line of Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc.
Your question please.
Thank you.
Do do you have any visibility on the wind resource thus far in the second quarter? No Paul I don’t do not have that at this particular point.
Have you issued any shares under the [board] this year? No we have no we have not not since the original issuances that we did.
We are going to pull down the the full amount by the June 11th date this year.
And then are you kind of thinking that the timing of that pull down can you elaborate preserve some earnings power? It would probably be closer to the June 11th date.
Got it.
There's about 10.4 million shares left.
And I just want to make sure I’m clear that you’re going to be on the shareholder good side of the PCAM? Yes.
Despite the $2.7 million PTC headwind you get hit in the first quarter? The PTC doesn’t go to the PCAM the impact of wind which basically was about $4.5 million in the first quarter that’s incorporated into PCAM that was the lost when generation due to the 36% under production.
So the last wind generation forced you to buy $4.5 million worth of power? Approximately correct.
Replacement for [indiscernible].
Against our AUT forecast.
Thank you for the clarification.
Thank you.
Operator we’re not taking any more calls.
So we want to appreciate your interest in Portland General Electric and we invite you to join us when we report our second quarter 2015 results in late July.
Thanks again and have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for your participation in today’s conference.
This does conclude the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the Portland General Electric Company’s Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today is Tuesday July 28 2015.
This call is being recorded and as such all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks we’ll have a question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions].
For opening remarks I’d like to turn the conference call over to Portland General Electric’s Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Bill Valach.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Ashley and good morning everyone.
We’re pleased that you can join us today.
And before we begin our discussion this morning I’d like to remind you that we have prepared a presentation slide deck to supplement our discussions and we will be referencing throughout the call.
The slides are available also on our website at portlandgeneral.com.
Referring to Slide 2 I would also like to make our customary statements regarding Portland General Electric's written and oral disclosures and commentary.
There will be statements in this call that are not based on historical fact and as such consult to forward-looking statements under current law.
These statements are subject to factors that may cause the actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made today.
And for a description of some of the factors that may occur that could cause such differences the company requests that you read our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
Portland General Electric's second quarter earnings were released via our earnings press release and the Form 10-Q before the market opened today and the release and the Form 10-Q are available on our website at portlandgeneral.com.
Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise and the Safe Harbor Statement should be incorporated as part of any transcript of this call.
As shown on Slide 3 leading our discussion today are Jim Piro President and CEO; and Jim Lobdell Senior Vice President Finance CFO and Treasurer.
Following their prepared remarks we will open the line up for your questions.
And now it’s my pleasure to turn the call over to Jim Piro.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Welcome to Portland General Electric second quarter earnings call.
On today’s call I’ll provide an overview of our financial and operating performance give you an update on the economy in our operating area and discuss construction progress on our new Carty Generating Station.
I’ll then turn the call over to Jim Lobdell who will provide more details on our financial performance and general rate case.
As presented on Slide 4 we reported net income of $35 million or $0.44 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2015 compared with net income of $35 million or $0.43 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2014.
Overall PGE continues to demonstrate strong operational performance across the company in 2015.
Construction on our Carty Generating Station is proceeding on budget and is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2016.
Our 2016 general rate case has made significant progress and we are affirming our full year 2015 earnings guidance of $2.05 to $2.20 per diluted share.
Moving to Slide 5 we continue to see strong performance in our generating plans distribution system and power supply portfolio during the second quarter of 2015.
However offsetting some of the operating performance from these areas was lower than forecasted wind in hydro generation.
Regarding customer satisfaction according to the latest published national rankings PGE continues to maintain top quartile system reliability metrics top decile customer satisfaction metrics for key customers and top quartile customer satisfaction metrics for residential and business customers.
Earlier this month PGE was named a 2015 most trusted business partner among utilities by Market Strategies International.
In June PGE received the 2015 Smart Grid Customer Education Award from the Smart Grid Consumer Collaborative for our Salem Smart Power Center.
The center and its related research were PGE’s contribution to the Pacific Northwest Smart Grid demonstration project part of a national initiative that efficiently ended this month.
Through the project PGE successfully piloted large scale battery storage to the benefit of customers and the grid.
We will continue to operate the Salem Smart Power Center using battery storage to integrate renewables and strengthen the local micro grid.
PGE was also recognized in the second quarter for its voluntary renewables programs.
According to the Department of Energy National Renewable Energy Laboratory the renewable programs in 2014 were once again recognized as having the most customers the highest participation rate among customers and the greatest total sales of renewable energy among the nation’s utilities.
We’re very proud of our commitment to generating renewable energy and providing our customers with sustainable power options.
Let's move to Slide 6 for an update on the economy and our customers.
Oregon continues to exhibit positive economic trends with employment growth continuing to outpace that of the U.S.
The unemployment rate of 4.8% in our service area for June compared favorably to both the U.S.
at 5.3% and Oregon at 5.5%.
Oregon’s economy is also performing well in other areas.
Oregon ranks second in the nation for 2014 personal income growth at 5.8% according to the U.S.
Bureau of Economic Analysis.
The state of Oregon’s gross domestic product expanded by 3.6% in 2014 ranking sixth in the nation for GDP growth.
And Portland moved up one spot to the nation’s 28th most populous city according to the 2014 census data released in May.
At PGE our average customer account increased approximately 1% year-over-year and energy deliveries weather adjusted are up 5.8% for the second quarter of 2015 over the second quarter of 2014.
The increase in deliveries was driven primarily by strong growth in the industrial sector due to hi-tech expansions with additional gains in paper food and transportation equivalent manufacturing.
Weather continues to be historically warm with Oregon experienced the warmest June on record in 2015 and the third warmest second quarter on record.
While warming temperatures were unfavorable to energy deliveries in April and May they transitioned to favorable as we made the switch from heating to cooling driven loads in June.
Based upon the results of second quarter energy delivery and current economic indicators PGE now expects 2015 weather adjusted load growth to be approximately 1.5% excluding one large paper customer and net of approximately 1.5% in energy efficiency.
Slide 7 provides an update on the Carty Generating Station our 440 megawatt natural gas base load resource under construction near Boardman Oregon.
Construction is on budget and the plant is expected to be placed into service during the second quarter of 2016 at an estimated cost of $450 million excluding AFDC.
The 500 KV Grassland Substation serving the site is now complete and in June France-Canada Gas Transmission Northwest started construction on the 24 mile 20 inch lateral pipeline that will transport natural gas to the plant.
Overall construction on the Carty project is approximately 60% complete.
On Slide 8 we have provided a summary of the company's capital expenditure forecast from 2015 to 2019.
And we are currently evaluating additional opportunities to invest in projects that provides value to our customers.
As outlined on Slide 9 the need for new resources to meet our customers' future energy needs will be evaluated through the 2016 integrated resource planning process and detailed in a resulting action plan.
This planning process involves stakeholders stakeholder engagement research and analysis and will evaluate many issues including the need for additional energy efficiency energy resources and demand side actions to meet customers' growth and to replace the output of our Boardman plant which will cease the use of coal at the end of 2020.
In addition the process will also address the need for capacity resources for the integration of new renewable resources to meet Oregon's renewable portfolio standard of 20% by 2020 and to meet our customers' winter and summer peaks.
We will file the integrated resource plan and the associated action plan with the Oregon Public Utility Commission in 2016 and we are targeting the plan to be acknowledged by the Commission in the first quarter of 2017.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Jim Lobdell who will discuss our financial results for the second quarter provide an update on 2016 general rate case.
Following these prepared remarks we will open the lines up for your questions.
Jim? Thank you Jim.
Turning to Slide 10 as Jim mentioned the second quarter of 2015 we recorded net income of $35 million or $0.44 per diluted share compared with net income of $35 million or $0.43 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2014.
These comparable quarter-over-quarter earnings were the result of the following items.
Increased energy deliveries for all customer classes the incremental earnings contribution of Port Westward 2 and the Tucannon River Wind Farm in customer prices in 2015 and increased AFUDC earnings on the construction cost of the Carty Generating plant.
These increases were offset by higher power supply cost from the second quarter of 2015 compared to the second quarter of 2014.
Moving to Slide 11 total revenues for the second quarter of 2015 increased $27 million to $450 million.
This increase was primarily driven by growing demand in the industrial sector an increase to customer prices from the 2015 general rate case which included the addition of the Tucannon River Wind Farm and the Port Westward 2 generating station.
Energy deliveries for the second quarter of 2015 were 5.6% higher than the second quarter of 2014 for the 4.9% increase in residential deliveries a 3.6% increase in commercial deliveries and a 9.8% increase in industrial deliveries.
For the full year of 2015 we expect a weather adjusted load growth of approximately 1.5% net of energy efficiency and excluding one large paper company.
This is a 0.5% increase from our previously disclosed load growth estimate.
Now on the power supply.
Lower than expected hydro and wind generation in the second quarter of 2015 were offset by effective power supply management which resulted in net variable power cost at approximately the baseline of the annual update tariff for the second quarter of 2015.
This is in contrast of the second quarter of 2014 when net variable power costs were $11 million below the baseline for the annual update tariff.
Moving on to Slide 12.
Generation transmission distribution and administrative and general costs totaled $126 million for the second quarter of 2015 an increase of $3 million from the second quarter of 2014.
Generation transmission and distribution decreased $1 million due to our $3 million decrease from the timing of the annual plant maintenance outage at Boardman offset by higher operating and maintenance expenses from the addition of Port Westward Unit 2 and Tucannon River and higher information technology expenses.
Administrative expenses increased $4 million due to a combination of higher expenses including legal and environmental services information technology pension and other miscellaneous items partially offset by lower provision for bad debt expense.
Depreciation and amortization increased $3 million quarter-over-quarter and was impacted primarily by $6 million and higher expense in 2015 resulting from capital addition of $2 million and higher asset retirement obligations offset by a $5 million reduction related to the amortization of deferred regulatory liabilities for the Trojan [indiscernible] settlement and related tax credits in 2015.
Interest expense increased $5 million quarter-over-quarter with $3 million from an increase in the average balance of debt outstanding and $2 million from lower allowance for borrowed funds used during construction.
Moving on to Slide 13.
In early January PGE filed its 2016 general rate case.
In June a partial stipulation was filed with commission covering agreements reached by PGE OPUC staff and other parties on a variety of issues related to the 2016 GRC including the cost recovery in Carty Generating Station.
In addition PGE filed upgrade 2016 load and power cost forecast.
The table on Slide 13 displays an annualized revenue requirement update for the June stipulation and load and power cost updates.
Also in June PGE filed motions to suspend the power cost and non-power cost procedural schedules based on reaching a settlement with parties on all remaining issues and the case except for one power cost issue which has its own procedure of schedule.
Details on the new settlement will be available when the stipulation is filed in the coming weeks.
All stipulations remain subject to the OPUC approval and PGE expects the final order from the commission before the end of 2015.
On the Slide 14 we continue to maintain a solid balance sheet including adequate liquidity and investment grade credit ratings.
As of June 30 2015 we had $585 million in cash available short term credit and letter of credit capacity $924 million in the first mortgage bond issuance capacity and a common to equity ratio of 29.6%.
The company has $500 million of all the credit facilities to meet the company's liquidity needs which has a maturity date of November 2019.
The company also continues to maintain adequate lateral credit facilities totaling $60 million.
In May PG issued $70 million or 3.5% series First Mortgage bonds which were used to fund an early redemption of $67 million or 6.8% series First Mortgage bonds.
In June PG paid and settled inflow with Equity Forward Sale Agreement with the issuance of the remaining 10.4 million shares of common stock available under the agreement and exchanged for net proceeds of $271 million.
Also the company has repaid inflow of $305 million of long-term bank loans with payments of $50 million in February $200 million in June and $55 million in July.
Regarding the company's quarter dividend and $55 million in July.
Regarding the company’s quarterly dividend on July 23 the Board of Directors approved quarterly dividend of $0.30 per share assuming PGE’s ability to achieve current estimates for earnings and cash flow and depending on other factors influencing dividend decisions.
PGE management anticipates sustainable annual dividend increases of 5% to 7%.
Over the long term PGE targets a dividend payout ratio of 50% to 70% and the next annual review of the dividend will be completed in April 2016.
Moving on to Slide 15 an earnings guidance PGE is affirming its 2015 revised guidance of 205 per diluted share to 220 per diluted share based on the following additional assumptions.
Annual weather adjusted load growth of approximately 1.5% over 2014 below average hydro conditions normal thermal plant and wind operations for the remainder of the year depreciation and amortization expense between $300 million and $310 million and capital expenditures of approximately $598 million.
Back to you Jim.
Thanks.
We continue to focus on successful execution of our initiatives that deliver value for our customers and shareholders by achieving operational excellence by meeting our 2015 performance targets completing construction of the Carty Generation Station in the second quarter of 2016 and on budget achieving the fair and reasonable outcome in our 2016 general rate case and working collaboratively with all our stakeholders to repair our 2016 integrated resource plan and its associated action plan to meet our customers future energy needs using resources that provide the best long term balance of cost and risk.
And now operator we’re ready for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Paul Ridzon of KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Congratulations on the solid quarter.
A quick question.
You updated your sales forecast just wondering if there is any particularly bright spot in the economy or it's just kind of broad based? When you look at the numbers as we looked at the second quarter again we’re seeing strong growth in the industrial sector driven by the hi-tech and also in the commercial sector there's been a really bright spot for us.
We’re seeing a lot of growth in the commercial sector more than we had anticipated.
We shows [Indiscernible] two bright spots.
Residential continues to be about flat most of that is driven by energy efficiency which is offsetting our growth in that sector.
So really the growth in the commercial sector and industrial sector are really bright spots and if you look around Portland in the Metro area you see fair amount of cranes out there which is always a good sign that the economy is growing.
And the housing market is definitely picking up as we see our permit starting to rise and we continue to see construction multi-family.
So all-in-all it’s a positive sign the economy more people going back to work and feel really good about what’s going on in our service area.
So you’re seeing underlying growth is 3% half of which is even though not efficient? Yes.
We typically use about have about 1.5% reduction on a low duty energy efficiency.
We run those providences energy trust of Oregon and they produce about 30 average megawatts or so a reduction in the energy efficiency each year.
That tends to be weatherization lighting we’ve been doing a big program throughout our service area on LED lighting for the streets and so forth and that’s been a really successful program in using our product more efficiently.
Not much that loading included already in high risks? As you look at the curves and we’re right now in the integrated resource plan.
If you look at what existing in the pipeline starting to run out and so I think as we look to the future we don’t see necessarily as much energy efficiency opportunity with the current technology.
You always have to win what the new technologies are going to be and it does start to taper off.
But if you look at the forecast the energy thrust is well there maybe new technologies out there that might produce the additional efficiencies but much of it is starting to become part of [closing] standards and so it’s kind of baked into the new appliances and the new construction standards.
So it is starting to tail off we’ve been doing this for I think you think back to all back to 1980 we’ve been doing efficiency.
And so it is starting to if you will run out in terms of that opportunity.
Would you say weather was a help or kind of push kind of give in the mix before -- Yes and yes.
April and May were warm and that tends to be a heating month.
So we kind of got heard in April and May due to warmer weather and then June went the other direction it was warmer in June and Jim you want to talk about the financial impact of that or? Yes Paul.
It was impact of weather for the second quarter it was about $0.07.
As Jim pointed out in the first few months there was little drag and then June really helped out with the hot weather.
So you have got $0.07 versus normal or year-over-year? $0.07 quarter year-over-year negative.
Negative okay.
And then how is the wind resource in the quarter? It was down again and I think if you look year-to-date wind is down about 30% overall for the year and it was down again in the second quarter.
Yes.
Paul actually $0.07 was just for Q2.
This is normal? Yes.
And then looking forward to some generation opportunities is it for basically or is it we have to get 20% by probably its more wind from some backup gas behind that wind and then in 2020 you have the backs for Boardman retirement is that kind of the way to look at it? Yes.
As you look at it that's the whole purpose of the integrated resource plan.
We will do all the analysis; we will look at what's the best balance of cost and risk.
We are going to have to add additional renewable resources it’s about 110 roughly average megawatts of new renewable resources to meet the 2020 objective.
And then we have an overall energy kind of whole of around 450 million megawatt when you look at 2021 after Boardman shuts down.
So we are trying to address what's the least cost flows risk way of doing that and replacing those resources.
So it'll be a combination of likely we will do an RFP for the renewable resources I think when tends to be the lowest cost resource for us.
And then on the baseline side we will look at gas resources and we will also look at peaking type resources like on Port Westward 2 unit to backup the new renewable resources.
But the way it will play out just so you can understand we are getting always one of the action plan which we are targeting for the first quarter of 2017 then we would go to what's called an RFP process or request for a proposal to solicit bids for resources to meet the action plan.
We intend as we did in the last plan to probably include self build options.
And we will work to that process after the action plan is acknowledged.
Thank you.
And then lastly is there any discussion Oregon about expanding the RPFs? There is lots of discussions in Oregon around carbon and global warming and climate change and number of issues around that.
I think we are all waiting to see what 1/11d produces and how that will impact our decisions around resources.
So we like many utilities are waiting for the new rule to come up on the EPA around 1/11d and then we can assess weather that would by itself require us to add more renewable resources or just exactly what actions we would have to take.
So I think everyone's kind of pausing right now until we see the results of that and then I think there will be additional discussions in the state around those kinds of items.
But right now there is nothing be proposed to increase the RPS standard.
And just for clarification the final standard is 25% by 2025.
So we still got a couple of more steps to go before we kind of visit the next ideas.
Our next question comes from Brian Chin of Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
I apologize if I miss this earlier in your comments.
I think the CapEx numbers on slide eight or a little bit higher than where you at projected them earlier.
Can you give a little bit more color there? So Jim you want to go to those numbers? Yes there up about $60 million and the reason is because we’ve got a customer service system efforts is going on or CET customer engagement transformation so that’s the real driver plus a few other small items.
Yes we have a pretty significant project.
We hope to kick off in October with final Board approval.
But we need to replace our customer information system and our meter data management system.
Both those systems drive are billing to our customers.
Our systems were put and back in 2001 and so they’ve reached the end of the useful live so we need to replace those and we’re in the process negotiating contracts and getting the work plan put together.
We’ve got 10 approval from the Board we’ll get final approval in October.
And the past when you guys have talked about improving more centralize communications in a greater building out of the R&amp;D assets.
It seems to me there was a lot of little pieces that you guys were looking at.
I guess the question I have is when we’re looking at this race of 60 million here is that your sense that this is probably more of a final level kind of number or we still in the mid of trying to assess what other touch could happen where there is further potential upside in those numbers? I think we’re still assessing other potential opportunities we’ve been looking at simply because the smart grade work on it the integrated grade but really working we add technology to grew the throughput of the system and the performance of the system.
And so we just and our Board need to share we spend half a day talking to our Board about smart grade technologies and how you can improve the throughput of system.
So things like conservation both each reduction smart switches all those technologies that can improve a liability and performance of the grade.
And so we are we’ve run some pilots we’re looking at expanding that and that’s really what we’re in right now.
And so in the next year so we’re trying to solidify those plans ensure that we have the bandwidth and that the technologies are working to our satisfaction.
So I think there is some other opportunities there but we have run into ground and add in terms of actual capital expenditure and numbers yes.
Got you.
And one last question and I will hop back.
So if I understand it correctly there are not any sort of like discrete dockets or anything like that are proceedings relates to this extra amount this would just be involved under the base CapEx is that the right assumption going forward? That's the right way to think about.
That are rate base coming to grow our shrink base on those investments and then that would just be part of our general rate cases going forward.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Chris Turnure of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
I want to follow up more on your dividend increase and your plans going forward there obviously you are pretty low in your payout target range right now I wanted to understand if that 5% to 7% that you want to recommend to the board next year going forward is kind of a lose guidance range where in some years it could be higher than that or if that's pretty hard and fast and you might reconsider doing a buyback or something of that nature given your cash flows especially in seventh? I would call it loose guidance I mean I think it's generally what we are comfortable with right now every year you have to reevaluate we are getting to the close to the date when we will get a better picture of our CapEx spending and cash flows of the company and then we all revisit that issue.
But we generally feel that's an acceptable range.
If we look at the runway towards new capital projects to meet our customers' energy needs we want to kind of preload the equity structure so that we can have the ability to ride through that without having to issue new equity.
And so that all goes into the decision making process as we get to the integrated resource plan we will get a little more visibility on where the parties want to go with new resources and the timing of those resources 1/11d will also inform.
So what we know today we are comfortable on that range as I mean we couldn’t go out of that range but I think right now given the CapEx forecast we have and how we think about new resources that's kind of where we would likely would land.
We do want to retain a sustainable pattern and not just kind of jerk it around each year.
But again that's all the things we take into account when we sit down with our finance committee and the board to talk about the dividend.
Okay.
Got you.
And then could you give us a little bit more detail on the power cost issue? I am not sure was in your general rate case or outside of it but was that kind of something that went back to the PKM reform that we heard something about late last year or earlier this year over that topic? Yes the one issue we have that we pulled out of the settlement on the rate cases was called Port Westward Unit 1 extensive maintenance outage that's scheduled for next year.
We had a problem with the turbine this year there was an aired major in the maintenance outage.
And so we are going to have to go back next year and pull the road and look at that and do some work on it just get a back up to -- And so there is some discussion between the company and the commission and the parties about whether we should be allowed to recover for that extended maintenance I don't think that is much better but I don’t know if we filed in the case what the dollar was so it’s not a huge number but it is something we want to -- with the commission.
It’s fairly new information and so we didn’t really the parties weren’t ready to settle that issue and so we decided to pull it out and brief it.
We will finally we filed testimony last week? I think it was last Friday Friday we filed the testimony on that case on that issue and you could probably find that out in the dark to get more color on what it is.
Okay.
But as of now you have hold it and you are going to eat those cost? Well now we’re going to work through that we filed our testimony why we think should recover that cost we believe we are prudent that the contract we had with the vendor who did the work was a good contract but we do have the sloppy origin or the extension of the maintenance that and we were asking to get recovery of those dollars and we didn’t put in the settlement because it was a fairly new issue and we are ready to settle it.
So we all agreed that we’ll brief the issue and then working through the process.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Couple of questions.
Real quick just with the revised capital spending numbers how are you thinking following this year’s rate case what kind of the timing or cycle is for any future or follow-on cases? We’re right now in the budgeting process Michael and getting the ’16 budgets complete and then we will also ask our operator do a ’17 budget.
We’re going to try to take a holiday but rate cases we can’t guarantee that at this point we have to look at the numbers to make sure there is nothing in ’17 that would cause us to have file a rate case right now with we typically I have to go every other year just to deal with inflation the big driver is obviously load growth as you see what happens in ’16 and ’17 to be right provide some margin to cover our general increase in inflationary cost.
So we’re looking ’17 I think we’ve gone through three rate cases in a row and I think it’s time for a one year hiatus but again we will complete the budget process we’ll look at the results and see if we can manage through ’17.
So that's kind of what we are right now we’ll know more probably in the third quarter call and whether that's the indication we won’t have to file a ’17 rate case to February of next year as we do have time but we want to complete the budgeting process look at the numbers and see what it would mean to try to manage through ’17.
Got it and when I look at the slide 13 I just want to make sure I’m understanding this correctly when I think about what drops to the bottom line kind of one pre-tax I guess dropped to the earnings before taxes line is that $41 million or is that a different number? Well supplemental is usually offset by amortization.
So you typically -- I have to look at each of the supplemental tariff but the supplemental tariff usually a refined of a prior credit to customers and Jim gave you the detail behind the supplemental.
But those are typically just amortizations or credits that we have the biggest the biggest is the fuel the fuel credit from department of energy.
The base business is really what base business [indiscernible] the two numbers that flow to the bottom-line obviously they are offset by costs which has differentiation costs we have other cost increases.
So at the end of the day essentially rate base time is return on equity they guess to the bottom-line.
So there is a lot’s of moving parts in these numbers including power costs and ONM and a lot of other changes.
So it’s not easy to say what drops to the bottom-line so because of the offset to cost.
So again I was kind of look at or look at the rate base for the case time the 50% capital structure times in ROE and that really is what we would project earnings less certain costs that we don’t get recovery for.
And can you remind us what’s the amount of cost you don’t get normally it kind of hidden historically rate cases that you didn’t get recovery up? The amount ROE perspective we kind of put it out there and approximately 80 basis points.
I have one or two others.
I can follow-up offline.
Our next question comes from Brian Russo of Ladenburg Thalmann.
Your line is open.
I’m just curious what the upward revision to your load growth forecast.
Will that change the revenue requirements that we see on page 13? Well we did GRC and we updated our load forecast as part of that filing that did increase the load expected.
So it’s actually going to increase a little bit.
Okay got you and the stipulation that you mentioned was filed in June and details will be out soon.
Is that if I heard you correctly it’s all… Yes Brian there were two stipulations.
One we did filed with the commission influence on record to date.
There is another one we have just recently reached agreement with the parties that has not yet been filed with the commission.
We still working through the paperwork and you know trying to make sure everyone agreed getting everyone to sign-up on it then we will then filed up stipulation.
Any deals with almost all the remaining issues that are than the Port Westward 1 project that we talked about earlier on the call.
So we have been able to provide those details to you because the parties have been signed up it’s not done.
So we do not want to pre-jump the results but the hope is to get that completed next couple of weeks and get filed with the commission.
So all remaining issues mean return parameters as well? Yes everything.
Everything except for the PW1 issue.
Okay.
Great.
And then income statement in the guidance can you kind of give us a sense of does the midpoint of your guidance assume zero balance on the PKM? I don’t think we get that.
We do not get into much detail.
Yes.
We are generally within the guidance with all kinds of things moving on and a lot of it will depend on wind generation.
I think we have a pretty good runway on hydro we kind of see what that's going to produce but we still have the end of the year and that can have a hydro impact also which is still not yet happened.
So there are a lot of moving parts between the load forecast and power cost and wind forecast there are just a lot moving on right now.
So we are generally feel comfortable within that guidance but we still have a whole half year left to go.
Yes.
I would say that for the full year we anticipate it within the debt band of the PKM and right now as I mentioned earlier we are effectively at the UT level the baseline level.
Got it.
And I think you ended the first quarter of ’15 $2 million below is that assumes? Yes.
You lost that $2 million in the second quarter and you are flat year-to-date? Well we are down $2 million year-to-date underneath the baseline.
We are flat on Q2.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mark Barnett of Morningstar.
Your line is open.
Thanks for all the commentary so far.
Just a couple of quick questions would you be able to disclose the impact of -- you said that the load growth exclude one large paper customer was that a closure or just a major delta in their usage for the quarter? One of our large customers --the paper customer they get variable rate from the company.
So we essentially buy and sell for them or buy power for them when they need it at the market rate and so their consumption really does not impact our result and it could be very volatile and the impact they have had sales generation out there which can change the overall results.
So because there are variable load customer and we just sell to them in a margin they are not one of our cost of service customers on a long-term basis.
So we try to take them out because the volatility in their loads just can impact the growth numbers and it does not reflect the base growth in our business.
So we have just excluded that for purposes of clarification and clarity of our load growth numbers.
Okay.
And I thought that that would be the same customer I just wanted to make sure? Yes same customer.
Okay.
And second could you get just a little bit of color when you talk about the rest of the year being below average for hydro conditions now you have a pretty good idea by this point what the next few months will look like you maybe just comment on that a little bit? Sure Jimmy? Yes when we look at three basins that we are sourcing our generation from our which is the mid sea Clackamas and Deschutes all of those basins are below normal and the April through September forecast so we’re looking out for the balance of the year we’re expecting that to continue to be down at a less than normal level and if you look at it and on a composite perspective we’re expecting it to be about 73% of normal.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Andy Levy of Avon Capital.
Your line is open.
Just a quick follow-up on the PCAM so could you just describe to us so you had some verbiage in the release and also you mentioned it also on the call that you did a very good job kind of offsetting the hydro conditions in the low wind conditions can you just give us some more detail on that if possible? I think part of that just due to changes in the market and market opportunities California is obviously gone through a pretty significant drought down there and so we try to take advantage of those opportunities when they make themselves available they are random and never can predict them but we try to always optimize our power supply in the market when there are opportunities to sell power into that market and so because of what’s going on in California that severe drought the market heat rate has gone up which provides us an opportunity to sell some of our excess generation into that market.
Okay.
So just if I understand it correctly your fossil units ran very well and that provided even with the heat excess generation that you are able to selling to the California market and offset the lower hydro and wind conditions is that kind of is that correct? Yes that basically correct along with the first two months of the quarter we had lower loads so we had lower power cost [a trigger] point as well.
And was hedging pre-hedging or have anything to do with there or was it really just a dynamics of the market and good production from your fossil units? It still laterals not hedging because we typically going to the year fairly flat so we don’t take risk positions going into the year.
So we essentially buy the gas buy the power buy the other fuels that we need to run our power plants in anticipation of what we think how we are going to run and then everything else changes hydro changes wind changes California hydro condition is changed and that’s where we try to optimize our power supply.
And because of the unique satiation in California the market rates have been up a little bit.
And I know it’s quarter that you haven’t leased yet.
But those dynamics continue in July? They should I mean we’ll have to see how it all works out.
You never know how California set themselves up whether we get heating California will make a difference.
And whether we got heat in the Pacific Northwest difference as well.
Yes whether our thermals are committed to meet load in the Northwest or the loads are moderate here and then there is an opportunity there.
So there is a lot of things to move around on a daily basis in terms of the markets.
Our next question comes from Ashar Khan of Visium.
Your line is open.
I wanted to just go over.
Could you just repeat I just wanted to make sure what is the contribution of the weather past of negative year-to-date and if you could just repeat for the quarter versus normal? For the quarter versus normal it was $0.07.
Okay.
Negative? Negative yes.
And year-to-date? We’ll get back to you on that.
Sorry? We’ll get back to you on that.
I don’t have that with me right now on a year-to-date basis.
And then I just wanted to get a sense on the strategically one thing which has happened since last call M&amp;A and the small caps space is being in the forefront.
And I just wanted to check-in how does the Board look at M&amp;A and strategic things generally in the space or just for shareholders long-term? We don’t really comment on mergers and acquisitions.
I will tell you just like any Board you have responsibility to observe what’s going on in the market we brief our Board and what’s going on in the market related to M&amp;A.
So I’d like to say on that issue.
Sure on a weather adjust we have to look at number up.
So year-to-date weather compare to normal is driven down EPS by $0.20.
$0.20.
Okay.
Great.
I appreciate.
$0.27 year-to-date.
$0.27.
Okay.
$0.20 in Q1 $0.27 Q2.
Okay.
No I am just trying to make a sense of how should we try to forecast next year take the weather out of normalized it first [indiscernible] which has to our numbers.
Thank you.
Yes.
You are welcome.
Thank you.
And we have a follow up from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
I know you are ways away from thinking about longer term EPS but is the best directionally if I am an investor just think about rate base in 2016 I assume the authorized capital structure and maybe a slight discount to the authorized ROE let's say we used a 99 but some slight discount to it.
Is that kind of ballpark the right way to be thinking about this? In terms of the earnings performance of the company you take your rate base time to 50%.
You always have to add [indiscernible] you have to add rate base plus [indiscernible] and then you take your cap structure times what you think the allowed ROE is going to be and then reduce it by roughly 80 basis points or so for reduced allowanced and other costs and they are not recovered and that gets you to the earnings power of the company.
Got it.
And I want to make sure the comments I asked that question earlier about the GRC and the detail at the bottom of slide 13 the supplemental tariffs update so that $62 million that's a reduction in revenue but it's also a reduction in the amortization so it does not impact kind of EBITs or earnings it impacts cash flow but not earnings necessarily.
That's correct.
Got it.
Okay guys.
Thank you much.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Okay.
So let's conclude we have no further call.
So we appreciate your interest in Portland General Electric.
And we invite you to join us when we report our third quarter 2015 results in late October.
Thanks again and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Portland General Electric Company’s Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today is Tuesday October 27 2015.
This call is being recorded and as such all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] For opening remarks I’d like to turn the conference call over to Portland General Electric’s Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Bill Valach.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Vickie and good morning everyone.
We’re very pleased that you’re able to join us today.
And before we begin our discussion this morning I’d like to remind you that we have prepared a presentation to supplement the discussion which we will be referencing as we go through the call.
The slides are available on our website at portlandgeneral.com.
Referring to slide two I’d like to make our customary statements regarding Portland General Electric's written and oral disclosures and commentary that there will be statements in this call that are not based on historical facts and as such constitute forward-looking statements under current law.
These statements are subject to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made today.
And for a description of some of the factors that may occur that could cause such differences the company requests that you read our most recent Form 10-K and our Form 10-Q.
Portland General Electric's third quarter earnings release was released via our earnings press release and Form 10-Q before the market opened today and the release and the Form 10-Q are available at our website.
The company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise and the Safe Harbor Statement should be incorporated as part of any transcript of this call.
As shown on slide three leading our discussion today are Jim Piro President and CEO; and Jim Lobdell Senior Vice President Finance CFO and Treasurer.
Following their prepared remarks we will open our lines up for your questions.
And now it’s my pleasure to turn the call over to our CEO Jim Piro.
Thank you Bill.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Welcome to Portland General Electric’s third quarter earnings call.
On today’s call I’ll provide an overview of our financial and operating performance give an update on the economy in our operating area discuss construction progress on our new Carty Generating Station and provide updates on other initiatives affecting PGE.
I’ll then turn the call over to Jim Lobdell who will provide more details on our financial performance and general rate case.
As presented on slide four we reported net income of $36 million or $0.40 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2015 compared with net income of $39 million or $0.47 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2014.
Although our financial results were lower quarter-over-quarter I'm pleased with our solid operating performance and strong load growth supported by continued positive economic trends in Oregon.
Construction on our Carty Generating Station is proceeding on budget and is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2016.
We have now settled all items for our 2016 general rate case with the OPUC staff and interveners and we are affirming our full-year 2015 earnings guidance of $2.05 to $2.20 per diluted share.
Moving to slide five our overall system performance was excellent for the third quarter including achieving generating plant availability of 99%.
Additionally Uptime Magazine named PGE the best reliability engineering for our maintenance program for generations.
The award recognizes organizations that demonstrate excellence in managing equipment reliability using advanced strategies and high tech sensing technologies.
I’m also pleased to report PGE continues to be ranked in the top quartile for customer satisfaction metrics for residential business and key customers according to Market Strategies International and TQS Research.
We are continually striving to meet our customers' energy needs by delivering products and service that reflect their values.
Earlier this month we enhanced our nationally recognized renewable power program by offering a new voluntary renewable power option for our customers called Green Future Solar.
This program enables customers to support solar generation by participating in a program that is sourced through a shared local solar facility.
In September we released our 2014 sustainability update.
It provides our 2014 highlights and key metrics including five years of performance data and it is designed to feature some of the ways we work to balance social environmental and economic impacts of our business decisions.
This update is available for you at portlandgeneral.com.
Now let’s move to slide six for an update on the economy and our customers.
Oregon continues to exhibit positive economic trends.
In August Oregon’s annual job growth reached a 10-year high expanding by more than 60 000 jobs over the past 12 months.
This is a 3.5% increase it is a milestone that hasn't been hit since 1997 during Oregon’s high tech boom.
September growth slowed slightly to 2.9% year-over-year however Oregon still added nearly 50 000 jobs.
The unemployment rate of 5.4% on our service area for September compared favorably to Oregon at 6.2% and slightly above the US at 5.1%.
PGE’s average customer count continues to increase at approximately 1% year-over-year.
Portland State University Population Research Center reports 2014 population growth in PGE’s service area at 1.4%.
Additionally the housing construction forecast from the Oregon office of economic analysis calls for a strong growth in the coming years with housing starts in Oregon increasing from 15 000 in 2015 to almost 18 000 in 2016 and 23 000 annually over the extended horizon.
Historically approximately half of Oregon’s building permits translates into new PGE customers.
Energy deliveries weather adjusted are down 1.1% for the third quarter and up 2.8% year-to-date 2015 versus 2014.
We continue to see strong growth in the industrial sector driven primarily by high-tech manufacturing.
This is related to the growth of semiconductor and solar manufacturing as well as the opening of two new data centers in PGE’s service area in 2015.
Additionally gains were seen in transportation equipment driven by an increase in the number of ships and dry-dock on the Willamette River this year.
There continues to be a lot of attention on the unseasonably warm temperatures in Oregon.
While weather was warmer-than-normal this quarter it was comparable to the third quarter of 2014.
However PGE did reach the second-highest summer peak on July 30 of this year when temperatures reached 103 degrees.
Based upon the results of year-to-date energy deliveries and current economic indicators PGE now expects 2015 weather adjusted load growth to be approximately 2% over 2014 levels.
This is net of approximately 1.5% in energy efficiency and also excludes one large paper customer who recently announced they are now suspending operations indefinitely.
Moving to slide seven we have provided an update on the Carty Generating Station our 440 megawatt natural gas base-load resource under construction near Boardman Oregon.
Construction is on budget and the plant is expected to be placed into service during the second quarter of 2016 at an estimated cost of $450 million excluding AFDC.
We completed assembly of the heat recovery steam generator and successfully completed hydrostatic testing an important milestone to test piping integrity.
Overall construction on the project is 70% complete and we're starting the commissioning process.
On slide eight we have provided a summary of the company's capital expenditure forecast from 2015 to 2019.
And we are currently evaluating additional opportunities to invest in projects that provide value to our customers.
As outlined on slide nine the need for new resources to meet our customers' future energy needs will be evaluated through the 2016 integrated resource planning process and detailed in a resulting action plan.
This planning process involves stakeholder engagement research and analysis.
It will evaluate many issues including the need for additional energy efficiency opportunities for demand side actions and replacing the output of our Boardman plant which will seize the use of coal at the end of 2020.
In addition the process will address how we plan to meet Oregon's renewable portfolio standard of 20% by 2020 which could be met through a combination of physical resources and the use of renewable energy credit.
The plan will also evaluate the need for additional capacity to meet our customers' winter and summer peaks.
We will file the IRP with the Oregon Public Utility Commission in 2016 with the resulting action plan targeted to be acknowledged by the Commission in Q1 of 2017.
Last week the final EPA Clean Power Plan was published in the Federal Register.
The final rule change significantly from the draft rule and resolved most major issues raised by PGE.
Our company intends to be actively engaged with our stakeholders and the state’s interagency team as we work together to determine Oregon’s best path forward in implementing the plan.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Jim Lobdell who will discuss our financial results for the third quarter and provide you an update on the 2016 general rate case.
Following those prepared remarks we will open the lines for your questions.
Jim? Thank you Jim.
Turning to slide 10 as Jim mentioned for the third quarter of 2015 we recorded net income of $36 million or $0.40 per diluted share compared with net income of $39 million or $0.47 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2014.
The difference in quarter-over-quarter earnings can be attributed to increased earnings for the third quarter of 2015 of about $0.04 from adding Port Westward 2 and the Tucannon River wind farm and higher AFDC from the construction of the Carty Generating Station.
However this increase was more than offset by a $0.06 decrease to earnings from several miscellaneous and other expenses.
The remaining $0.05 of the difference in earnings per share quarter-over-quarter was a result of an increase in the average share count from 80.2 million shares in the third quarter of 2014 to 88.8 million shares in the third quarter of 2015.
Moving to slide 11 total revenues for the third quarter of 2015 decreased $8 million to $476 million.
This decrease was primarily due to three items; first a $5 million increase in retail revenues due to the January 1st increase which included placing Port Westward 2 and the Tucannon River wind farm into service higher energy sales partially offset by a decrease of supplemental tariffs and second a $10 million decrease in wholesale revenues and finally a $3 million decrease from other miscellaneous revenues.
Energy deliveries for the third quarter of 2015 were 0.6% higher than the third quarter of 2014 with a 0.2% increase in residential deliveries a 0.9% decrease in commercial deliveries and a 4.0% increase in industrial deliveries.
For the full year of 2015 we expect weather adjusted load growth of approximately 2% net of energy efficiency and excluding one large paper company.
This was a 1.5% increase from our previously disclosed load growth estimate.
Now on to power supply.
Net variable power costs decreased $11 million quarter-over-quarter.
However NVPC was $6 million over the baseline of the annual update tariff due to unfavorable hydro and wind generation.
This is in contrast to the third quarter of 2014 where net variable power costs were $5 million above the baseline.
Moving on to slide 12 generation transmission distribution and administrative and other expenses totaled $123 million in the third quarter of 2015 an increase of $9 million from the third quarter of 2014.
Generation transmission and distribution increased $4 million due to a $2 million increase due to higher operating and maintenance expenses from the addition of the Port Westward 2 and Tucannon River Wind Farm generating facilities $1 million increase due to a partial write-off of the biomass inventory at Boardman and a $1 million increase in repairs and maintenance at our Port Westward 1 and Beaver plant.
Administrative expenses increased $5 million due to a combination of higher expenses including legal and environmental services information technology pension and other miscellaneous items.
Depreciation and amortization was comparable quarter-over-quarter and was impacted primarily by $7 million in higher expense in 2015 resulting from capital additions offset largely by a $6 million reduction related to the amortization of deferred regulatory liabilities primarily related to the Trojan spent fuel settlement.
Total interest expense increased $5 million quarter-over-quarter with $3 million from lower allowance for borrowed funds used during construction and $2 million from an increase in the average balance of outstanding debt.
Other income decreased $8 million quarter-over-quarter primarily driven by $5 million reduction on AFDC equity due to two plants being placed in service in the fourth quarter of 2014.
There was also $1 million decrease in investment returns on the non-qualified benefit trust assets.
Moving on to slide 13 as Jim mentioned PGE OPUC staff and other parties reached an overall stipulated settlement that resolved all remaining matters in the 2016 general rate case The key items from the settlement were a return on equity of 9.6% a cost of capital of 7.52% a capital structure of 50% debt and 50% equity and a rate base of $4.4 billion.
The estimated net increase in revenues is $13 million which includes the addition of the Carty Generating Station and results in an increased customer prices of approximately 0.7%.
The increase will be effective in two stages.
On January 1 2016 customer prices will decrease 2.4% representing the change in base business costs and certain customer credits.
Prices will then increase by 3.1% when Carty comes into service in the second quarter of 2016.
The increase in revenues will be finalized in November after the final update of power costs and cost of debt have been submitted.
All stipulations remain subject to OPUC approval and the final order is expected before the end of 2015.
On to slide 14.
We continued to maintain a solid balance sheet including adequate liquidity and investment-grade credit ratings.
As of September 30 2015 we had a total of $631 million in cash available short-term credit and letter of credit capacity $959 million in first mortgage bond issuance capacity and a common equity ratio of 50.3%.
The company has a $500 million revolving credit facility to meet the company's liquidity needs which has a maturity date of November 2019.
Company has additional letter of credit facilities totaling $135 million.
Regarding the company's quarterly dividend on October 22 the Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.30 per share assuming PGE's ability to achieve current estimates for earnings and cash flow and depending on other factors influencing dividend decisions PGE management anticipates sustainable annual dividend increases of 5% to 7%.
Over the long-term PGE targets a dividend payout ratio of 50% to 70%.
The next annual review of the dividend will be conducted in April 2016.
Moving to slide 15 on earnings guidance PGE is affirming its 2016 revised guidance -- 2015 revised guidance of $2.05 to $2.20 per diluted share based on the following additional assumptions: annual weather-adjusted load growth of approximately 2% over 2014 excluding one large paper company; below average hydro conditions for the year; normal thermal plant and wind operations for the remainder of the year; depreciation and amortization expense between $300 million and $310 million; and capital expenditures of approximately $580 million.
Back to you Jim.
Okay.
We continue to focus on successful execution of our initiatives that drive value for customers and shareholders including delivering operational excellence by meeting our 2015 performance target continuing construction of the Carty Generating Station achieving an on budget second quarter 2016 in-service date and working collaboratively with all our stakeholders to prepare our 2016 integrated resource plan and its associated action plan to meet our customers' future energy needs with resources that provide the best long-term balance of cost and risk.
And now operator we are ready for questions.
How are you doing? Hey on the settlement the rate case settlement how do you anticipate the settlement will enable you to earn the authorized ROE of 9.6%? What we see is it’s more of a true-up because of the fact that we’ve been the rate case after rate case our O&amp;M expenses and other corporate expenses are closer to what we're incurring because of the true-ups that we've had with the general rate case.
We will continue to have a drag on the 9.6% associated with disallowed costs there is about anywhere from 65 to 70 basis points that we’ll be experiencing once we approach about $4.5 billion rate base but that’s – we are feeling pretty good about it Michael.
Okay great.
Just looking at the trailing 12 months we’re coming in – it looks like towards the low-end of the guidance range.
I know that you said that the – you're expecting a higher overall weather-normalized sales growth for the year now.
What are the positive factors that we’re going to look for in the fourth quarter to make sure that we're still in the range especially considering the higher share count? Well as you pointed out we are looking at strong growth.
When you look at the second quarter versus the fourth quarter there is a little bit of activity going on there in regards to adjustment.
So as we pointed out earlier strong growth on the revenue side.
We also – we’re continuing to push on the O&amp;M expenses associated with the organization and we think between the combination of low growth and cost management that we’ll be able to land within our revised guidance.
And one final question about the IRP I know you guys talked about renewable credits versus a new generation I suppose being able to satisfy clean power plant requirements going forward.
And is there any way that you can quantify what the statuses of your available credits – the credit – I guess how many credits you have how long did they last how many year's they have in them and what that might mean in terms of new generation opportunities going forward? So we haven’t disclosed the actual numbers but we continue to build our [indiscernible] because our loads have been under what our forecast was and the resources that have been operating.
So right now we think that there is enough credit that could take us two to three years beyond 2020 and the question really is how do we utilize those credits in an economic fashion [ph].
A lot of it will be dependent on the discussions in integrated resource plant on the timing of adding a physical resource to meet our obligation and how we might smooth that out using those credits.
So there's a lot of discussion to have with the parties on what’s the right way to use that balance but if we will just use the balance it would be potentially defer the need for resource out to couple of years.
That also – go ahead.
That is in the final decision that’s just the way the numbers work out really but the conversation has to be included in the IRP and why that may have to deal with how the production tax credit kind of play out over time.
And does that also assume and it seems that Oregon remains at a 20% RPS right? That is also true.
There has been a ballot measure that’s been filed with the Secretary of State that would potentially increase that renewable standard but that’s really just in the early stages of discussion.
Interesting.
Okay thank you for much.
Good morning.
Can you kind of talk about what’s going on with the wholesale sales volumes is it price or is it volume both? Yeah Paul what happened with the $10 million decrease in the wholesale revenues is the fact that when you look at our port -- generation portfolio most of our generation was committed to meeting our loads and when we saw higher loads in the third quarter because of all the temperature and exactly how the temperature showed up that meant that we're more of a buyer on the marketplace than we were a seller.
And in addition to that there were some movement in the overall wholesale prices in itself.
And looking at year-to-date volumes industrial sales are up 7.6% is there anything chunky in there or is that kind of similar to same-store sales or if you had – what’s driving that? What’s driving it is the continual expansion of hi-tech we are seeing.
We’ve got a couple of data centers that have come into the service territory.
In addition to we are seeing more transportation manufacturing basically ship repair going on in our service territory.
You know those can be some --.
But nothing like you had a big customer down for an outage last year and it came back this year it’s all real organic? Yes.
Okay.
And then just back to Michael’s question on the fourth quarter so you’ve got growth in some O&amp;M controls.
Can you kind of point which half of the guidance you think you could end up there? I could really couldn't do that at this point Paul but I appreciate the question.
Okay.
Thank you very much for your help.
I noticed that for the guidance reiteration of page 15 you're looking at normal thermal plant and wind operations for the remainder of the year.
A couple of your peers have commented on the impact of El Niño on wind operations.
Are you just not really seeing that or can you comment on that at all? I just don't think we know yet it’s still a very inexact science.
Obviously wind has been down for the entire year.
In the third quarter we were actually pretty close to normal.
So it's hard to tell what’s going to happen in the fourth quarter.
So we have been trying to pick a number we just said we’re going to keep it at expected levels consistent with our budget and we just have to see where it plays out.
These resources are fairly new and we’re still learning a lot about how they operate in a very complex weather system.
Okay got it.
Secondly I noticed that there was a little bit of timing changes in some of the Capex in terms of what year some of the Capex spending would happen it looks like some stuff that was in ‘15 got pushed out into ‘16.
I apologize if you commented on this in your prepared remarks because I missed part of the call but is there any additional color you can provide on that.
And if you have already commented it then I'll just go back and look at the transcript.
You’ve got it right Brian there was just a bit of movement from 2015 to 2016.
We did include in our Capex table this time around a replacement of our customer information in Meter Data Management System but a lot of it is just a timing.
And last one because I want to be respectful of the queue.
Last quarter you commented on bridge spending the $58 million and obviously it's probably little too soon for you guys to give an update on that.
But just how confident do you feel that there are additional opportunities on bridge spending that can be captured over the next call it like two to three years before the Boardman replacement question comes into play.
I always feel like in the distribution area this is an opportunity for us to catch up on some of our reliability work that even the assistance they gets shaped our underground needs to be addressed.
We have the environmental Capex that we're going to need to do.
So there is a number of things that we are looking at and trying to balance managing our prices as well as managing the reliability of our system.
So we haven't got a lot of visibility a lot of work going on internally I’m looking at projects that we need to advance.
And hopefully on our call next year we’ll be able to give you more clarity on that as we kind of solidify those plans on what we need to do.
Alright thanks a lot.
Hey guys congrats on a good quarter.
Real quick I want to make sure I understood the commentary about thinking about the drag on earnings -- on authorized earnings.
Are you saying you still expect to have about 60 to 75 basis points of drag relative to the 9.6% authorized ROE for next year? It's actually 65 to 70 basis points associate with the authorized ROE.
And again its expenses like lobbying and advertising and incentives and little bit of capital structure in there.
When you’re up around $4.5 billion rate base that's what it pretty pencils out.
So that would imply you’re here in somewhere close to about 9% ROE next year.
When we think about 2017 is there much of a step up in the weighted average rate base in 2017 over 2016? Rate base right now looks like it's going to be relatively constant until we get to the next decisions around the IRP resources.
We’ll be doing some of that I mentioned earlier some work on the distribution system some reliability and environmental ads but I think generally we’ll keeping it relatively flat until we get some clarity on the new resources and go through the RFP process.
Right but the $4.4 billion that's a weighted average that only has half a year of Carty in it.
And therefore the second half that alone would potentially give a little bit of an uptick in ‘17 or am I miss thinking about this? I think that $ 4.4 billion includes the full-year of Carty.
At the beginning of the year it’s about $4 billion and by the time you get to mid-year you’re at $4.4 billion.
So you're about $4.2 billion average for the year.
Okay.
Got it okay.
I appreciated it guys thank you.
You've touched on a lot of big issues but I've got a couple small relatively corky questions I just want to get your quick thoughts on.
First there was a comment in the press release that the rate case is predicated on Carty entering service by the end of July.
What happens if hypothetically you get a little bit of a delay on Carty and it runs pass there? Well right now its July 31 as the end date we have to have an in-service by that date.
If not it really will depend on what the reasons for the delay are.
But in the kind of the worst-case we’d have to refile a rate case to include that into our prices.
But again it has to be circumstantial; we don't see that as being very likely.
We have to see what would be the cause of the delay whether it's on factors that we had control of or something that totally outside of our control like some type of weather events or force majeure type of an event.
So right now all indications the plan will be completed by that date but if we’re not then we’d have to go to the regulators and talk to them about some type of interim rate release or rate case filing.
Okay hopefully that won’t come into play.
Next question the tax rate was relatively low in the quarter.
Just if you can comment on your expectations for the full year and may be looking beyond to next year for tax rates? For this year I would think about an effective tax rate of 20% to 25%.
PTCs are coming in a little bit better because the wind ticked up in the third quarter.
So that was a good positive for us.
Going forward beyond the current year I’d just look at the statutory rate at this particular point in time.
There are too many moving pieces for us to give any guidance.
Okay great.
Then two other quick news items I just wanted to see if you can comment on.
One up onto the utilities are suing the Oregon Department of State over this quartzite tax the energy supplier assessment.
Is that anything that could move the needle either for investors or for ratepayers? Now it's a really small -- relatively small tax it obviously affects the PUDs quite a bit.
I think the -- it’s going to be a tough battle for them to win that issue but it’s going to be small.
Okay great.
Then lastly there is an issue from some environmental groups to eliminate all coal-fired resources.
Obviously you have your plants for Boardman but in terms of some of the stuff over the wires is that something that might affect your long-term planning? We have obviously consider the ballot measure has been filed with the secretary of state there is no call by wire by 2030.
We’re obviously owners in coal strip three and four which would be our only remaining coal resources.
We own 20% of units three and four that would have an impact on our ability to use cold strip to meet our customers load.
It doesn’t talk anything about shutting the plants down.
And so those plants under this legislation will still be available for some purpose.
I‘m not clear what in terms of probably wholesale sales or some other market activity.
The other part of that measure is the increase in the renewable portfolio standard to about 50% by 2040 kind of ramps in overtime.
Again that’s just a measure it hasn’t got the signatures yet and the title hasn't been confirmed.
So those are things that are moving forward I will tell you we are in conversations with environmental groups and others about kind of where we need to be and the progress we’re making on the current RPF standard.
Okay great if that RPS where to be increased is your assumption that you would continue to own some portion of the renewables in rate base? Our preference would be to own these resources they’re very strategic located these are usually the best sites as they kind of get kicked off and picked off.
And so our desire because this RPS standard is not going to go away it’s going to be a long-term obligation of the company.
We really like to own these sites because that preserves the value of those resources for our customers long-term.
But again we would have to go through an RFP process we would likely put in our own benchmark resources to compete in the market but our desire would be to own resources to meet that obligation because of the long-term nature of that obligation.
Okay thank you so much.
With the RFPs commencing in ’17 how long do those processes typically last and when is the earliest you could begin construction on any of the related self-build projects there? So the way I would think about is assuming that we get that order from the commission Q1 of ’17 it’s going to take us probably 3 to 6 months to get the RFP prepared and ready for the marketplace.
And so we probably issue the RFP towards the end of ’17.
Hopefully by the end of middle of ‘18 we'd be able to reach a decision on the RFPs and start progress on the project.
So hopefully by the middle of ‘18 possibly towards the end of ’18 again Boardman shutdown at the end of 2020 that's the real key important date.
As it relates to the renewables as we mentioned earlier we have some flexibility on we need to add the renewable.
The timing of the renewables will depend on the discussions with all the stakeholders as well as kind of what's going on in the market related to production cash credits and other projects that might be competing for those renewables.
Got it thank you.
So that’s kind of timing as we look ahead.
Perfect.
And then a follow-up to Brian's question on the bridge spend.
Is rate-basing of gas reserves still on the table and if so would that be addressed in the IRP? We are not addressing in the IRP we pulled it out of the IRP.
We are conducting discussions with all the stakeholder groups about where we see the value of the long-term hedging.
And that’s really where the conversation started is we think where gas prices and the fact that we have a pretty significant need for natural gas to fuel our power plant that a long-term hedge would provide value for our customers of some percentage.
So we’re in discussion with the stakeholders on kind of the structure of that hedge how we would do it what risks and rewards we take and the customers take around gas reserves strategy.
And so those conversations are going forward and so we're doing it outside of the IRP process and we're still working with all the customer groups in terms of trying to understand how we would execute on that plan.
So hopefully we’ll continue to make progress and the team is working hard on that strategy.
Great and then last can you just give the EPS impact of weather versus normal for the quarter? For the quarter really was $0.07 but really -- we looked at this quite a bit and you really need to take the third quarter and the second quarter of 2015 and put the two of them together and if you recall the second quarter was down $0.07 and now the third quarter is up $0.07 you're really net zero for 2015.
And then when you compare it to 2014 we were down $0.05 in the end Q2 and up $0.03 for Q3 so you are really down a total of $0.02.
So you kind of look at the comparison of year-over-year from normal and say we're better by $0.02.
Hopefully that helps? Perfect.
Understood.
Thank you.
Thanks Sarah.
Good morning Lauren.
Hi good morning.
So following up on the weather impact discussion you were just having with Sarah can you give us the weather impact versus normal for Q4 last year because I believe it was quite warm? For Q4 it about down $0.04.
Okay.
And then can you talk a little bit your rate case plan going forward now that you have the new plans kind of addressed under the rate cases that are past and the one that’s still underway.
Can you talk about how we should think about your rate case plan if you are going to try to stay out until you have major rate base sources or if we should think about you kind of continuing to file fairly regularly? So the way we think about it is couple ways.
First of all you have to understand that we do track in power cost each year through our annual update tariff so changes in power cost would be adjusted each year through the annual update tariff and so that will continue forward.
So to the extent natural gas prices go up or down or energy prices for electricity go up or down those would be passed on to customers through AUT filing.
So the other thing we have to addresses is our O&amp;M increases and any changes in rate base and so that is really going to be dependent on load growth.
To the extent we continue to have strong load growth that will provide us some marring and cover those increases in inflationary cost.
And to the extent we have flat load growth or declining load growth then that will be kind of pressure on our prices.
So typically as we’ve looked at the company about every other year there would go in for a general rate case but a lot of it depends on those our factors our ability to control O&amp;M where load growth is and kind of what the inflationary pressures are on our cost.
So we would hope to stay out for ’17.
We are just putting our budgets together for 2017 we haven’t made a final decision on that yet but we're looking at everyone’s budgets for ‘17 and looking at our load growth for ‘17 to kind of get a sense of whether we can take a period off for ‘17 and we will probably make that decision late this year early next year.
We don't -- we really wouldn’t have to file a rate case till February of 2016 for 2017 price change.
So that’s kind of what we are thinking about right now but if you looked historically when we don't have new resources coming online every other year every couple of years it’s kind of what our pattern would be but again it’s depending on those factors that I just discussed.
Thank you very much.
One final question with load growth coming in significantly stronger than you guys had originally forecasted this year is that something that seem sustainable at least for the next year or two or are you kind of still in wait and see mode to see if this can carry through to next year? A lot it’s been driven by some of our large customers specifically Intel and the growth they have seen at it Intels grow with D1X in their facility.
So I don’t think that’s ultimately sustainable.
I think there are some really good factors going on in Oregon around economic growth.
This is really a hub for hi-tech and software developers.
So we’ve seen a lot of in-migration and good strong growth.
Whether that continue long term there is many factors that affect that.
You have to understand that that growth right now will be picked up in our 2016 rate case as we adjust our forecast.
So our loads and our costs will be aligned going into 2016.
Okay great.
Thank you guys very much.
Thanks Lauren.
Good morning Mark.
Hey good morning everyone.
Thanks for all the detail today on the call.
I just want to ask a question that perhaps you won't be able to give too much color on but we're talking about availability of resources in the region and you had addressed maybe the core issues in the future bringing it into the state but Colstrip itself in its own state is also under pressure.
I am just wondering how you see that developing with the kind of few builds that we've seen introduced in the Washington legislature this year.
Well besides the legislation that’s been discussed up in Washington Montana got a significant challenge through the Clean Power Plan.
If you look at that plan Montana had some pretty significant hurdles that they have to achieve and that’s going to also have an impact on the coal projects in Montana.
So there are – obviously Montana has challenged that legislation in the course along with a number of other states.
So we are going to have see how that all plays out.
Peugeot and the conversations they have been having up in Washington.
Peugeot is 50% owner of units 1 and 2 and so that’s been kind of the early talk around what’s the fate of units 1 and 2.
So those are the older more inefficient units up there.
So there's lots of conversations going on around Colstrip and it’s hard to tell how that’s all going to play out and kind of have to watch Peugeot’s lead up in Washington as they think about their strategy and working with their legislature.
Okay but ultimately it makes sense to kind of view the Clean Power Plan as the larger risk to availability of that over the longer term I’d imagine? Yeah I think that – I mean clearly those are rules that have to be promulgated and as I understand the Clean Power Plan if the state doesn’t take action the federals can move in put their own federal implementation plan in place.
They are very stringent up in Montana I am not sure how Montana is going to achieve those goals.
They clearly would require some shutdown at the coal plants to meet the mass-based coals that have be set for Montana.
So more to watch on that obviously.
Let’s see how the rules play out in the courts and I think we are early in the game and this process.
So more to come.
All right thanks.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
I can’t let it go by without asking a dividend question.
So I believe you guys talked dividend policy once a year in the spring meeting is that correct? That's correct.
And so obviously with CapEx coming down you guys have talked about the next wave of CapEx opportunities you want to hold back on that but just if you do the simple math your current run rate on modest earnings growth next year gets you to the lower band of the 50 to 70.
So I am just curious you talked about 5% to 7% divi growth but if earnings kind of grow at that rate any way how does that percentage move up over time? Well as you mentioned every spring we do a complete dividend review we look at our CapEx forecast we look at the capital structure we look at that need for equity as we think about another construction cycle and potentially not having to go the equity market to finance that.
So those are all the factors that go into that and we want to make sure we have a balanced cap structure but we also want to allows ourselves some flexibility going into a construction program.
So it’s hard to handicap it right now a lot of it depends on earnings too so there is many things that go into that and we are committed to the dividend.
We are committed to good payout ratio that’s within the range that we've provided.
And so we will continue looking at that.
So those are all the factors that go in there and you will hear more about it next April 2016 when we release the final number but you are asking my questions same questions we are asking and we will take those all into account as we make the decision.
Well I think most people understand and appreciate that wanting to hold that back for ERP given it's not that far away but the fact that I mean unless you guys think and I don’t think you do that earnings should grow at some rate below that that percentage won’t move all things equal right.
It will always be at the lower band at the lower end of the band.
Okay I think you are right and we will have to continue looking at it.
Thank you.
Hey guys a little bit of just an accounting question.
Interest rates are in treasury yields and corporate bond yields are obviously down.
Can you walk us through what the impact on pension would be for the future meaning next year maybe a little even beyond? Well it’s the greatest impact for attention for us is the discount rate and if we see a forward movement upward in short-term interest rates – just not short term but in interest rates then we will see the funding associated with it go up.
It’s for the funding status that is associated with the pension plan go up.
Beyond that we don't see much other changes because it’s a closed plan.
Got it.
So in another words there's no real O&amp;M impact on next year given the fact that 10 year is hovering around 2% and corporate bond yields are back to kind of historical lows? Yeah the only movement again would be the returns in the plan and the discount rate.
And maybe just an update for you on the PUC process why don’t you give him – So we had a pension docket down at the Oregon Public Utility Commission associated with trying to get not only recovery of the expense associated with the pension service costs for the plan but also a return on investments that we have made and basically the contributions we’ve made into the pension plan.
The outcome of that docket was the decision in August that basically said what we will recover is only the FAS 87 expense associated with the plan.
So right now our FAS 87 expense and what we are recovering in rates is pretty much on top each other at this point.
Got it.
Okay.
Last thing I want to make sure I understand you talk about in the Q1 and in some of your prior details some rate credits and kind of regulatory amortizations two tranches of $28 million of credits that roll off how much of that goes to reduce D&amp;A next year and how much is for other items.
Well most of it is just revenue reduction I mean it seems like the settlement associated with the spent fuel at the Trojan Nuclear Plant it has the residential credit from the Bonneville that we have out there and there's a whole series of others.
I can have Bill Valach give you a follow-up because there is a lot of details back behind it a lot of small pieces.
Happy to do follow up.
Thanks guys.
Much appreciated.
Thank you Michael.
Okay I think that’s ends that’s all the questions we had in the queue so let’s close this up.
We appreciate your interest in Portland General Electric and we look forward to seeing many of you at the upcoming EEI Annual Finance Conference in Florida.
Thanks a lot and have a great day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning everyone and welcome to Portland General Electric Company's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today is Friday February 12 2016.
This call is being recorded and as such all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] For opening remarks I would like to turn the conference call over to Portland General Electric's Director of Investor Relations Mr.
Bill Valach.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Candice and good morning to everyone.
I'm pleased that you're able to join us today.
And before we begin our discussion this morning I'd like to remind you that we have prepared a presentation to supplement our discussion today which we'll be referencing throughout the call.
The slides are available on our website at portlandgeneral.com.
Referring to slide two I'd also like to make our customary statements regarding Portland General Electric's written and oral disclosures and commentary that there will be statements in this call that are not based on historical facts and as such constitute forward-looking statements under current law.
These statements are subject to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made today.
And for a description of the factors that may occur that could cause such differences the company requests that you read our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Qs.
Portland General Electric's fourth quarter and full year earnings release were released via our earnings press release and the 2015 annual Form 10-K before the market open today and the release is available at our website at portlandgeneral.com.
The company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise and this Safe Harbor statement should be incorporated as a part of any transcript of this call.
As shown on slide three leading our discussion today are Jim Piro President and CEO; and Jim Lobdell Senior Vice President of Finance CFO and Treasurer.
Jim Piro will begin today's presentation by providing updates on our operational performance on Carty construction our service area economy and our integrated resource plan.
Then Jim Lobdell will provide more detail around the fourth quarter and full year results our financing and liquidity and discuss our outlook for 2016.
Following these prepared remarks we will open the lineup for your questions.
And now it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Jim Piro.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Welcome to Portland General Electric's fourth quarter and full year 2015 earnings call.
In 2015 we achieved several key objectives towards meeting our customers' energy needs and I'm pleased to share our results with you this morning.
On today's call I'll provide an overview of our financial results in 2015 and initiate 2016 earnings guidance give you an update on our operating performance provide an update on construction at Carty summarize the economic conditions in our operating area and outline the status of our 2016 integrated resource plan.
Following my remarks Jim Lobdell will provide details on the fourth quarter and annual financial results and end with our key assumptions supporting our outlook for 2016.
So let's begin.
As presented on slide four we recorded net income of $172 million or $2.04 per diluted share in 2015 compared with net income of a $175 million or $2.18 per diluted share in 2014.
This decrease in earnings per share was largely due to a record warm winter that resulted in lower residential energy sales compounded by lower than budgeted hydro wind and the associated lower production tax credits and higher replacement power costs.
Management took prudent actions and through temporary operation and maintenance reductions offset approximately $0.09 per share of the financial impacts from weather and power costs.
Now looking ahead for 2016 we are initiating full-year earnings guidance of $2.20 to $2.35 per diluted share which reflects warmer than normal weather and lower wind production in January.
Jim will provide more details later in the call.
Now for an operational update on slide five employees across the company did an excellent job in 2015 of improving efficiency reducing costs and executing our business strategy to deliver value to our customers shareholders employees and the communities we serve.
Our customer satisfaction remains very high in all segments.
Residential business and key customers placed us in the top quartile or better for satisfaction favorability and trust according to the latest survey results.
Also our 2015 generating plant availability was excellent at an average of more than 92% across all of the resources PGE operates.
2015 was the warmest year on record in Oregon.
The effects of weather impacted earnings by reducing energy deliveries to the residential sector especially during the first quarter.
As a result management not only took actions to temporarily reduce operating and maintenance costs but also worked diligently to ensure our delivery system and generating facilities operated extremely well.
These actions were critical factors in helping to address the challenges posed by weather and higher power costs throughout the year.
In 2015 we continue to demonstrate our leadership in delivering renewable energy and other programs to our customers.
In addition to maintaining our standing as the number one renewable program in the nation we won new awards established a new offering for our customers and hit a new milestone.
Our achievements included PGE's two wholly-owned wind farms were recognized for being both safe and sustainable.
Our newest wind farm Tucannon River is the first energy project in the nation to win the Envision sustainable infrastructure gold award from the Institute of Sustainable Infrastructure.
This award was based on PGE's contributions related to quality of life leadership resource allocation the natural world and climate risk.
Our other wind farm Biglow Canyon earned a Safety and Health Achievement Recognition Award referred to as SHARP from the Oregon Occupational Safety &amp; Health Division.
This is the first time a wind project has qualified for SHARP certification in Oregon and only the second wind project in the United States.
Also we enrolled – also we opened enrollment on a new renewable power option that enables customers to purchase output from a new 3-magawatt solar installation in the Willamette Valley providing a way for more customers to support solar generation.
And finally our dispatchable standby generation program passed the 100 megawatt mark.
This cost effective customer program helps meet regulatory requirements for non-spinning reserves.
I'm very proud of these achievements.
Now turning to slide six for an update on our Carty Generating Station.
On December 18 we declared Abeinsa our engineering procurement and construction contractor on Carty in default under multiple provisions of the Carty Construction agreement and we terminated the agreement.
As a part of the original construction agreement PGE required Abeinsa to provide a performance bond to guarantee satisfactory completion of the project in the event Abeinsa failed to fulfill their contractual obligations.
The performance bond was provided by two sureties Liberty Mutual Surety and Zurich North America for a $145.6 million.
Following termination of the construction agreement PGE in consultation with the Sureties brought on new contractors and construction resumed during the week of December 21 2015.
Currently we estimate the total capital expenditures for Carty will be in the range of $620 million to $655 million including AFDC and before considering any amounts received from the sureties under the performance bond.
And we are targeting an in-service date in July of 2016.
The prior Carty construction estimate of $514 million in capital costs including AFDC was approved by the Oregon Public Utility Commission in the 2016 general rate case.
We are currently in discussions with the Sureties regarding their obligations under the performance bond.
And we believe they have an obligation under the performance bond to contribute funds towards completing the Carty project.
In the event the total cost incurred by PGE for Carty less any amounts received from the sureties under the performance bond exceeds the OPUC approved amount of $514 million or the plant is delayed past July 31 2016 the company would pursue one or more avenues for regulatory recovery.
With regard to an update on the actual construction all major components are on-site and are currently more than 700 construction workers on-site representing key contractors including Day &amp; Zimmerman Sargent &amp; Lundy and Black &amp; Veatch.
Now to move to slide seven where we provide a summary of the company's current capital expenditure forecasts from 2016 to 2020.
These amounts potentially could be augmented with incremental investment related to natural gas supply system reliability and operational efficiencies that provide value to our customers.
In addition the graph does not include any potential capital projects from the outcome of our 2016 integrated resource planning process.
We will continue to provide updates on our capital expenditure forecast in future earnings calls.
Turning to slide eight Oregon continues to exhibit several positive economic trends.
First unemployment in Oregon in December was 5.4% and approaching the range considered full-employment.
Unemployment in our service area was even lower at 4.7% and compares favorably to the U.S.
unemployment rate of 5%.
Secondly overall business expansion and new real estate investments continued in 2015.
Investors have targeted Portland as a desirable West Coast location as evidenced by the large number of real estate transactions during the year and proposed new projects.
With growth in both the number of local startups and in large Silicon Valley companies locating offices in the region the Portland Metro area has become one of the fastest growing areas for high-tech employment.
In addition large high-tech industrial customers continue to expand their service area and contribute to weather-adjusted load growth of more than 2% in 2015 over 2014.
This is net of approximately 1.5% in energy efficiency and excludes one large paper company who ceased operations in late 2015.
Finally Oregon was once again the number one state for in migration in 2015 according to a study from United Van Lines issued in January 2016 this is the third year in a row that Oregon has received the number one rating.
PG's average customer count continues to increase at approximately 1% year-over-year and looking forward we expect weather-adjusted load growth in 2016 of 1% net of approximately 1.5% in energy efficiency and excluding the one large paper company.
On to slide nine.
With regard to the integrated resource plan we plan to file the 2016 IRP in the second half of 2016.
The IRP assumes a 20-year planning horizon with an action plan for the period 2017 through 2021.
The plan will address multiple issues including replacement of our Boardman Plant which will cease operating on coal at the end of 2020 meeting the renewable portfolio standard of 20% by 2020 additional energy efficiency and demand side actions additional capacity that needs to meet our customers and several other topics.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Jim Lobdell who will go into more depth on our financial and operating results for 2015 and provide the assumptions for our 2016 earnings guidance.
Jim? Thank you Jim.
Turning to slide 10.
For the fourth quarter of 2015 we recorded a net income of $51 million or $0.57 per diluted share compared to net income of $43 million or $0.55 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2014.
This increase was primarily driven by the addition of Port Westward Unit 2 and the Tucannon River Wind Farm in customer prices AFDC related to the construction of the Carty Generating plant and a reduction to O&amp;M in the fourth quarter of this year offset by an increase in share count 2015 related to the final draw in June under the Equity Forward Sale Agreement.
Also targeted earnings for the fourth quarter 2015 were reduced by warm weather which had a negative impact of $0.05 in comparison to normal.
As shown on slide 11 for the full year 2015 we recorded net income of a $172 million or $2.04 per diluted share compared with the $175 million or $2.18 per diluted share for 2014.
This decrease was largely due to the warmest year on record in Oregon resulting in lower residential energy sales compounded by lower than planned hydro and wind conditions resulting in higher replacement power costs and lower than anticipated production tax credits and an increase in share count due to the timing of the final draw under the Equity Forward Sale Agreement.
These decreases were partially offset by earnings from two additional generating clients placed in service Carty AFDC and a strong effort to temporarily reduce O&amp;M spending for the year.
Moving onto slide 12.
For the full year total revenues decreased $2 million.
This decrease in revenues was primarily due to a reduction in residential energy deliveries in addition to lower wholesale and other revenues.
These decreases were partially offset by a 1% increase in customer prices.
Purchased power and fuel expense decreased $52 million year-over-year driven by an 8% decline in the average variable power cost per megawatt hour.
The decrease was largely driven by a 3% decrease in the average price of purchase power and the economic displacement of Boardman in 2015.
Net variable power costs is reported for regulatory purposes were $3 million below the baseline of the power costs adjustment mechanism.
However when adjusting for a couple of one-time transactions which did not flow to the company's income statement.
In 2015 net variable power costs were $6 million above the baseline reflecting lower wind and hydro generation partially offset by optimization of the overall power supply portfolio.
This compares to $7 million below in 2014.
Moving on to slide 13 operating and maintenance costs totaled $507 million in 2015 $23 million higher than in 2014 and $13 million below the midpoint of our original 2015 guidance range of $510 million to $530 million.
The higher costs in 2015 were driven primarily by the following increases $9 million and costs related to the addition of the Port Westward Unit 2 and Tucannon River Wind Farm and $14 million in administrative and general costs including $5 million increase in information and technology expense and an increase of $3 million in non-labor and outside services expense.
The reduction in O&amp;M spending relative to our original guidance reflects the company's commitment to attempt to offset reduced earnings from warm weather in the first quarter of 2015.
Depreciation and amortization expense was at the midpoint of our guidance range and increased $4 million of $301 million in 2014 to $305 million in 2015.
The increase was primarily driven by a $26 million increase expense and the capital additions offset by a $22 million reduction of the amortization of deferred regulatory liabilities from the Trojan spent fuel settlement and tax credits as they were refunded to customers in 2015.
Interest expense increased $18 million in 2015 compared to 2014.
This was driven primarily by a $9 million increase resulting from lower allowance for borrowed funds used during construction combined with a $7 million increase in interest expense due to higher debt outstanding in 2015.
Other income net decreased $16 million year-over-year as a result of the $16 million decrease and the allowance for equity funds used during construction as the Tucannon River Wind Farm and Post Westward Unit 2 were put into service in December 2014.
Lastly income tax has decreased $16 million year-over-year largely due to a $14 million increase in production tax credit and the addition of the Tucannon River Wind Farm.
The company's effective tax rate decreased to 20.7% from 26% in 2014.
We did not take bonus depreciation in 2015 and we have not taken it since 2010 because we have favored using production tax credits and other state tax credits with expiration dates over using bonus depreciation.
Given the extension of the bonus depreciation through 2019 we will continue to assess our approach each year.
On to slide 14 we continue to maintain a solid balance sheet including strong liquidity and investment grade credit ratings.
As of December 31 2015 we had $550 million in cash available short-term credit and letter of credit capacity $867 million of first mortgage bond issuance capacity and the common equity ratio of 50.5%.
The company has a $500 million revolving credit facility to meet the company's liquidity needs which has a maturity date of November 2019.
The company has additional letter of credit facilities totaling $160 million.
In January of this year PGE issued a $140 million of 2.51% Series First Mortgage Bonds which were used to fund an early redemption of two outstanding Series First Mortgage Bonds.
The company plans to potentially issue up to an additional an $160 million of long-term debt in 2016.
Moving onto slide 15 on November 3 2015 The Oregon Public Utility Commission issued an order that when combined with customer credits results in an overall increase in customer prices of approximately 0.7%.
These prices were effective in two phases a 2.5% decrease in the January 1 2016 and a 3.3% increase when Carty comes into service provided it happens by July 31 2016.
The changing customer prices will reflect a return on equity of 9.6% a capital structure of 50% debt and 50% equity a cost of capital of 7.51% a rate base of $4.4 billion and an annual revenue increase of $12 million.
As shown on slide 16 we're initiating full year 2016 earnings guidance of $2.20 to $2.35 per diluted share.
This guidance is based on warmer than normal weather and lower wind production in January 2016 which resulted in roughly an $0.08 impact on earnings.
Additional assumptions include the following: retail delivery growth of approximately 1% weather adjusted and excluding one large paper company; average hydro conditions wind generation based on five years of historic production or forecasted studies when historical data isn't available; normal internal plant operations operating and maintenance costs between $515 million and $535 million; depreciation and amortization expense between $315 million and $325 million; and the Carty Generating Station in service by July 2016 at approximately the OPUC authorized capital amount of $514 million.
Back to you Jim.
Thanks.
As we begin 2016 we are moving forward on initiatives that drive value for our customers and shareholders.
Slide 17 displays our key objectives for 2016.
First maintain our high level of operational excellence with a focus on employee and public safety meeting our operational and performance goals and meeting our financial performance targets.
Second bring Carty Generating Station into service on or before July 31 2016.
And third work collaboratively with all of our stakeholders to prepare our 2016 integrated resource plan and its associated action plan to meet our customer's future energy needs using resources that provide the best long-term balance of cost and risk.
And now operator we are ready for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Michael Weinstein of UBS.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Michael.
Good morning.
Hey on the results for 2015 where you say that you have a temporary reduction O&amp;M of about $0.09 I believe you said at the beginning of the call.
Yes.
Okay.
So why is that temporary and I'm guessing that since it's temporary does that $0.09 is now responsible for higher O&amp;M in 2016 guidance.
So going forward in 2017 we would subtract that $0.09 out again to normalize? No Mike I wouldn't do that.
What we did in 2015 was to the extent that we could push off any particular activities and not impact safety and reliability or customer satisfaction we took account for that but I wouldn't add that back into the following year or just pick a point in time.
We still need to assess or what needs to happen there.
Yeah.
In 2016 our O&amp;M is in line with what was allowed in the general rate case and that's for work that needs to be done on our system to meet our reliability and customer service obligation.
What we looked at in 2015 we're delaying some types of work and it's not something we can do permanently.
Right.
And also on the Carty project is there any chance that you guys can finish the project before July right now or is it something you're willing to talk about in terms of is the project ahead of schedule or is it exactly on schedule and any slippage might be a problem? Well we have a schedule and it has us completing the project in July and we have some room but everything is going to have to go perfect.
We have to go through the startup we have to get all the construction work completed.
As I mentioned earlier we’ve mobilized enough people on the site to do the work.
Now we have to see the productivity and we have to see everything go as we have planned.
And so we're going to watch it pretty carefully.
We'll know a lot more at our next earnings call.
But I would say everything is fully going at this point and we're moving and things are happening out at the site.
At what point do you think you'll finish negotiating with the surety providers to figure out exactly how much they are going to assume? That's going to be a process.
We do have a meeting scheduled in March but that will be just the first step in the process with them.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Paul Ridzon of KeyBanc.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
How are you? Good morning.
Good morning Paul.
Can you parse out the $0.08 headwind we're facing? How much of that is wind and versus weather? Most of that is all weather and about $0.02 of it represents wind.
And then there's the PTCs in there as well which is about a $0.015.
Okay.
Just back to Mike's question so how much of the $0.09 how much was deferring versus actually just not doing and then how much of that $0.09 is creeping into 2016? The O&amp;M forecast that we have provided the range is to do the work we need to do in 2016.
Things that we didn't get done in 2015 or delayed are basically incorporated in our budget for 2016.
So we have a budget now.
We have a work we have to get completed and I think we are aligned with our budget for this year.
And that's embedded in our guidance.
Okay.
And then just on history of Carty $514 million was approved and now you're looking $620 million or more.
What kind of – what's the delta there? [With cost] [ph] $140 million we took the high-end versus the $514 million.
So basically what we've got there is we have to remove liens that have been [perfected] [ph] associated with the site.
We've got a lot of rework that needs to be done cost to complete the construction which is construction and start-up site stabilization there are delayed costs that can include productivity AFUDC and contingency and other costs.
You are successful in securing the full surety Carty will come in under budget? Well I think it'll come in pretty much at budget.
I think the 514 included the contractor meeting the obligations under the agreement.
So our sense would be is if the sureties do what we think they're responsible for doing we would come in at our budget amount.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Paul.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Chris Turnure of JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Good morning Chris.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Chris.
Could you give some more color on Carty? Just another question on that front.
How do you plan on financing the incremental cash that you're going to need to fund that this year? And have you had any conversations with the commission yet and kind of walking them through what's gone wrong throughout the process and to the degree that you kind of do about it even before late December? Well the first part of the question is how are we going to go about funding the incremental capital associated with the project.
I think as we have mentioned previously we’ve got plenty of capacity under our short-term [earnings] [ph] access to bank loans that we can provide in order to cover any incremental costs that we have to fund that we're not getting from the sureties associated with the project.
On the regulatory side...
Yeah.
I can cover that.
We've been keeping the PUC informed throughout the process.
We recently have been asked to provide an update on Carty through a public meeting.
However it hasn't been scheduled yet.
Probably that meeting would happen sometime in March or April.
Okay.
And have you disclosed how much let's say a one month delay in the project past July 31 would mean for EPS? No.
We haven't.
Okay.
And then my second question is just on the legislation now kind of making its way through the legislature over there.
Can you give me some color on what do you think the chances of passage are and then what that would mean for the next let’s say five to seven years of capital deployment and renewable growth opportunities for you guys because certainly in the long-term it would be a big benefit but I am focused a little bit more on the near-term.
Yeah.
So let me give you an update on it it's called the Oregon Clean Electricity plan it's called H.B.
4036 is the actual bill number.
It just passed out of the House Energy and Environmental Committee on a 6-4 vote.
It will now go to the floor for a vote at the House level.
Assuming if it passes there than it would move to the Senate Committee and then work its way through the Senate.
The bill essentially does two major things; number one it eliminates coal in Oregon by 2030 and for us up to five years later for Colstrip up to 2035.
And then it increases our renewable portfolio standard targets mostly in the out year.
So it's a 50% standard by 2040.
The interim targets are 27% in 2025 versus the current RPS standard of 25%.
35% by 2030 45% by 2035 and 50% by 2040.
So you can see from those new numbers the bulk of the changes would be in the outer years as we go to a 50% RPS standard.
This will all be factored into our integrated resource plan as we work through the process in this case because we wouldn't want to go long generation as we think about a higher RPS standard.
So it's all been factored into our planning at this point but it is all dependent on that law passing the legislature and signed by the Governor.
So that's kind of where it is.
We have got support a number of people are supporting the measure and there is some opposition to the measure.
So we'll just have to see how it plays out.
Great.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Brian Russo of Ladenburg Thalmann.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Could you just remind us the amount of capacity you need to meet the 20% RPS in 2020 any backup capacity necessary and then the number of megawatts you need to replace on Boardman? So in 2020 the RPS standard goes another 5%.
It's probably a very similar to Tucannon River Wind Farm it's probably around 100 average megawatts.
So it'd be very similar to adding another Tucannon River Wind Farm.
If you're thinking about the size of that that was about 267 megawatt of nameplate capacity.
So a lot of it will depend on capacity factor.
So that's kind of what we're looking at it.
The timing of that still kind of up in the air.
With the extension of the PTCs we'll have to evaluate when is the right timing for that unit because we do have renewable energy credits that we can apply.
And so we're looking at what's the right timing of that especially given the extension of the production tax credit.
That will all be a topic of our integrated resource planning discussion.
As it relates to Boardman our piece of the capacity is about 520 megawatts hydropower owns 10% of the project.
And so that is again being evaluated on what to – how we replace Boardman in the IRP.
Obviously I think prior to H.B.
4036 I think our thinking was likely a natural gas prior plant would be that the type of thing we would do and we would do and we will have to do an RFP like we did before but as you know we've said before Carty has been designed as the two-unit site.
So it would be a very good site to look at the second unit there.
But with a 50% RPS standard we have to kind of consider the entire mix in the long-term trajectory and what's the right kinds of resources we're going to need.
So it's not clear to me at this point what we will do to replace Boardman whether it will be more capacity in renewables or base load gas generation.
So that really is the topic of the IRP and we're just now in the process of developing portfolios that we can look at to see what provides the best balance of cost and risk going forward.
And would you need backup power for the – an additional wind farm? Yeah.
As we look at the renewables as you know they are not firm energy at least we haven't found at this point that really correlate directly with our loads.
So it would be a wind farm backed up by some type of capacity resource either a simple cycle turbines or reciprocating engines like Port Westward Unit 2.
Again we have capacity needs.
That's something that's been identified in the integrated resource plant as we look at what our loss of load probability study show us.
And so that is going to have to be addressed also.
But our sense is we're going to need additional capacity as we go to a higher RPS standard.
Okay.
So just back of the envelope $1 100 a KW for CCGT and maybe $1 500 a KW for wind I know you talked in probably a $1 billion of potential spend is that reasonable? Potentially again as you know we have to go through an RFP.
We have to ensure that we have the least cost lowest risk projects to bring forward.
As we've said before we would always want to include our own self build options and I think we've demonstrated from the construction of Port Westward Unit 2 and Tucannon that we can deliver those projects on time and on budget.
So we will want to provide our own projects.
We have some sites that are very competitive sites at least on the gas side and we'll continue to look for those wind farms and wind projects that can meet our renewable standard.
And when would you expect to get acknowledgement from the OPUC and when would be RFP process start and then finish? Probably in 2017 we expect the acknowledgement from the commission.
We'll file in the later part of this year.
We would expect a position decision in early part of 2017.
Then we will go into an RFP process where hopefully we'd know the decision by late 2018 and then move forward from there.
Okay.
Great.
And then what are the regulatory options for recovery of the Carty costs above what's in the general rate case? Well there's couple of things.
First of all it depends on what the number is.
Obviously if we're above that but only slightly we'll evaluate that and we'll have to understand the reasons for that.
But the way we would do that is through general rate case and next subsequent rate case.
At this point we're not planning on filing a 2017 general rate case looking to 2018 as a potential.
We will then file that case with what we think our prudent capital costs and we will go through the process to support those costs.
If the project is delayed beyond July 31 we will enter into discussions with the stakeholder groups to talk about options to recover the costs.
A lot of it will be dependent on when that project will be going online and we'll determine what's the best way to move that forward.
We have options and – but a lot of it depends on when that project would come online.
Okay.
And then I assume that midpoint of your guidance assumes a zero balance on the PCAM? Yes.
And when was the net variable cost set in terms of gas prices or prevailing commodity prices? It was set in November when we file our final update which includes cost curves and all our contracts that we have in place.
Usually we're about 95% hedged against our forward position.
So we've locked in those financial or physical contracts on gas as well as any electric purchase contracts.
So we're pretty balanced in November.
So than the variabilities we deal with are hydro wind and plant availability.
So those are things that we feel.
The good news is that hydro is about normal this year.
We've had a really good snowpack early on and we'll have to see how it goes for the rest of the year because that normal forecast does assumes normal precipitation for the rest of the cycle.
So we'll watch that pretty carefully as we see a snowpack build hopefully.
And what appears to be lower gas prices now versus I guess what was implied in November are you able to optimize your generation fleet to kind of capture that spread so to speak? Not necessarily.
A lot of it will depend on what happens in markets in terms of opportunity but our plans are committed to meet our retail load.
And so we've already locked in essentially the gas price for those plants to run and meet our retail load.
There may be some opportunity but probably the only real value is that if for example we have lower wind a lower gas prices would lower our replacement cost instantly with hydro.
But on the flipside if we have a lot of hydro low gas prices depressed the market price so we don't get as much value.
So it has kind of pluses and minuses as we think about it.
But right now we're hedged against where our loads and resources are.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Hi Michael.
Hi Michael.
Hey guys.
Congrats on a good year and a good start to 2016.
Just curious thinking about the RFP process and thinking about the IRP as well does the State of Oregon need capacity or energy or does simply your service territory does and so one of the alternatives in all of this process could be simply increasing the amount of power that could be sent into the Greater Portland area from other parts of the state.
The reason that's I'm kind of thinking through that is there are – we've seen in other states over the years Louisiana Mississippi great example of this also in the desert Southwest where merchant projects that were in a state like in Oregon or like Louisiana or Arizona roundup getting bid into RFPs and sold at a price that was well below new build cost.
Now some of the ones in your state they're not really in downtown Portland so there it have to be a transmission alternative but I think that largely will depend on is it a state need or is it a part of the state need for new capacity in energy? So let me talk about that generally.
In the last IRP projects that were available or bid in and they were not competitive with new generation just because of higher heat rates and older units.
So they were not successful.
And to that extent nothing has been built since then to my knowledge in the region in terms of new gas fire generation.
And then on top of that you got several plants that will be taken out of the regional mix but essentially are the – plants will be going away Boardman will be going away in 2020 and what has been added to the market place has been mostly in variable energy resources...
Under a contract.
Yeah.
Typically under contract.
So you think about Oregon and maybe the region I see has been more capacity deficit our study show that.
And there is just not capacity sitting on the sideline.
On an energy basis it's a really kind of tough issue as we see all these renewables show up in the system.
Obviously what's going on in California with the Duck Curve and all the solar energy down there those are the things we're looking at but the strong to California is only so large.
And so we have to think about the reliability of that supply as well as the costs.
So those are things that we are evaluating in the IRP but I would clearly say there is a need for additional capacity in the region especially as we add in more variable resources.
Got it guys.
Thanks.
One follow-up unrelated to that.
You made some minor changes to your base CapEx forecast in today's disclosure.
Can you just kind of walk us through what drove those changes? Yeah.
Effectively it was just a shifting of dollars associated with our customer information and meter data management project and that was essentially it.
Meaning moving stuff into 2016 from it can you just like – which years went up which years went down and what was the – and was that the main driver of that when I think about 2016 2017 2018 or so? Well the movement of dollars from 2017 to 2016.
Got it.
Okay.
So you just moved up the project a little bit.
Yes.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
Much appreciate it.
Thanks Mike.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Paul Patterson of Glenrock.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Hi Paul.
Just on H.B.
4036 looks quite ambitious and I haven't checked.
When it passed I guess it was about yesterday.
Were there amendments that addressed some of the issues that I guess are being brought up by the Oregon PUC? I guess was there any big changes or would those issues addressed or do you think that – I mean it looks like it passed with a pretty good margin I mean I'm just sort of wondering? Yeah.
It passed to explore I don't recall if there is – I was talking to Dave yesterday there weren't any major amendments and there might have been a few tweaks but nothing that was material to way legislation would setup.
I think the important thing to note is that it does still have the cost cap and that's currently in the legislation today.
It also added another standard around reliability.
So it has provided certain protections for our consumers that we think are adequate to address the concerns the commission has raised.
Our evaluation looking at price impacts on consumers over the lifecycle is Bill is somewhere in the 1.5% higher prices.
So it's not materially higher.
As I said the bill has passed the House Committee it's going to the House floor for vote.
It can then move to the Senate where we could see potential other amendments and we'll have to see how that plays out in the coming weeks.
It looks like it's on schedule for the House passage next week – early next week? That's correct.
And then it goes to the Senate Senate Business and Transportation Committee.
Okay.
And is energy efficiency part of the RPS standard or is that separate? In other words I mean does energy because I did notice this regional for state thing that was big pushing energy efficiency is that part of getting to be the standard? No because that just reduces our load energy efficiency.
It just measures that.
We don't want to continue our commitment to energy efficiency.
We use the Energy Trust of Oregon to determine what is the least cost lowest risk energy efficiency and how to acquire that.
We do a very detailed study in our IRP to determine what that is.
And so I don't think that changes dramatically in this legislation.
It just continues to support the need for energy efficiency but it does not count against the RPS standard in a sense that it's part of the – how we meet retail load.
It would reduce retail load but it doesn't necessarily count as – against the percentages.
Okay.
Excellent.
And then just in terms of obviously this CapEx forecast we should expect that once this – we get more information on H.B.
4036 and your IRP that – those numbers will probably be considerably higher I would expect correct? Yeah.
I think the question we have to ask and we'll be looking at this in the IRP is given the shutdown of Boardman in this high RPS standard what's the right timing and quantity of renewables we need to add to the grid kind of to get us to the 50%.
Because you wouldn't want to necessarily agitate base load gas generation and then find out that you have too much generation as you go to a 50% RPS.
So we're going to have to think very very smartly about the right mix of resources and the trajectory to get to that 50% RPS and the bill does allow us to may be pre-build ahead of the need if we can demonstrate that's the cost effective thing to do.
So that's really the magic here in trying to figure this all out is what's the right timing of doing this in a way that provides the least cost lowest risk for our customers.
Okay.
Great.
The rest of my questions have been answered.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Michael Weinstein of UBS.
You line is now open.
Hey guys.
A quick follow-up question.
On the legislation as a co-owner of Colstrip 3 and Colstrip 4 just wondering what do you see how do you anticipate the disposition of that plan once coal by wires eliminate 2035 for it under the legislation what do you see happening with it? So we've thought a lot about that.
Obviously our plan under this would be to recover all the capital costs and decommissioning costs through 2030 or 2035 depending on – the legislation allows us to keep the plan in customer prices through 2035.
So beyond that the question is what would we do with the plant.
There is options we would consider obviously if the plant continues to operate it has value we could either sell it in an auction we could sell the power in the market.
Those are two considerations as we look forward.
And those are the things we'll have to evaluate as we get closer to that period.
And so we don't have any answer yet but we have options.
On minority owner.
Yeah.
We're a 20% owner in Colstrip 3 and Colstrip 4.
So it's not like we can decide to shut the project down.
And so we will look at that as we get closer to that timeframe but those are the two options we would consider.
Okay.
I'm just wondering if there's been any moves to try to push to sell to [indiscernible] just like they're doing with Colstrip 1 and Colstrip 2? Well yeah I understand that.
And...
Yeah.
In Washington they have a prohibition from utilities buying coal output also.
So I know they're working on their own issues around units 1 2 3 and 4.
And we'll have a lot to see when we get there.
I think the landscape can change.
Montana is a potential market.
Obviously there are other places that power could be sourced to.
Yeah.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from [indiscernible].
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just a question on slide 14 regarding the financing.
You guys have year marked about a $160 million of additional bonds you may issue.
Is that currently embedded in the future testier that you have this year and then in guidance? What's the situation with the interest related to that? And what was the site if you issue it or not? Yeah.
Now it is included in the guidance already.
It's included in the rate case too.
Including the rate case too.
Because I think do we update the numbers for those bonds or? Updated for the bonds of ...
January.
January yeah.
Okay.
Great thing.
If you aligned up with the guidance that we have.
Okay.
And then just one follow-up question.
Now this is kind of an asset I just want to make sure I understand it correctly.
On the surety bonds by when do you need to have some kind of resolution on those before you decide to take action at the commission? I mean you can have the plant in service by your required service date but when do you need to know about the recovery of the surety bonds before you go to the commission? Well right now our prices are based about on the $540 million and that's kind of the agreement we have the next time we would address this in a subsequent general rate case.
And so we would obviously need to have that resolved by then but if we're looking at a 2018 general rate case we've got sufficient time to address that.
Again our hope is that we will get full compensation for the cost exceedance but that's obviously something we have to work through with the sureties.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
Thank you and congratulations.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Hey guys.
Just a quick question on rate case timing again meaning going forward.
It doesn't sound like you are going to do a lot of construction on stuff related to the RFO or RFP until the 2019 timeframe.
Do you anticipate filing again between now and then? Yeah.
Right now our thinking is 2018 general rate case but a lot of that will depend on load growth inflation cost controls just a number of factors that we look at.
We clearly have not filed for a 2017 rate case and don't anticipate doing that absence something going on with Carty.
So we would likely look at 2018.
We will make that decision till probably November of this year when we finish our budget to be filed in February of 2017 for a 2018 general rate case if we decided to do that.
A lot of it will also depend on interest rates what return on equities are doing.
So there are a whole bunch of factors will go into that decision.
But right now that's kind of what we're pointing towards but we haven't made a final decision.
Got it.
So you would file in 2017 for 2018 but that really wouldn't incorporate many of the stuff coming out of the RFP process? Not at this point now.
And to the extent there are renewable resources we do have the tracking mechanism under the current RPS standard that those can get track in directly when they go into service.
So we'd only be either capacity resources or something other type of thermal resources that would have to get whether we require a general rate case.
So we could actually track in the renewables with the current standards we have and the mechanism we have.
Got it guys.
Thank you.
Much appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay.
I think that's the end of the calls.
We appreciate your interest in Portland General Electric and invite you to join us when we report our first quarter 2016 results in late April.
Thanks again and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.