Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 PPG Industries Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Deanna and I'll be the operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Vince Morales Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
This is Vince Morales Vice President of Investor Relations for PPG Industries.
Welcome to PPG's first quarter 2011 financial teleconference.
Joining me on the call today from PPG are Chuck Bunch Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; Bob Dellinger Senior Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer; and Dave Navikas Vice President and Controller.
Our comments relate to the financial information released on Thursday April 21 2011.
As a reminder to everyone we have modified our quarterly earnings call process.
Approximately 1 hour ago we posted detailed commentary and accompanying presentation slides on the Investor Center of our website ppg.com.
The slides are also available on the webcast site for this call.
We will not read those prepared remarks during the call.
During the call Chuck will share his perspective on the company's results in the quarter and then we'll move directly to Q&amp;A.
This modified process allows substantially more time for Q&amp;A while providing a similar amount of data compared to our prior approach.
Both the prepared commentary and discussion during this call may contain forward-looking statements reflecting the company's current view about future events and their potential effect on PPG's operating and financial performance.
These statements involve uncertainties and risks which may cause actual results to differ.
The company is under no obligation to provide subsequent updates to these forward-looking statements.
This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The company has provided in the appendix of the presentation materials which are available on our website reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
For any additional information please refer to PPG's filings with the SEC.
Now let me introduce PPG's Chairman and CEO Chuck Bunch.
Thank you Vince and welcome everyone.
PPG posted record earnings per share this quarter marking the third consecutive quarterly record for the company.
We have built on the strong performance and momentum from the second half of 2010.
Our year-over-year sales improved 13% to $3.5 billion with each major region posting double-digit percentage sales increases and higher sales in every PPG reporting segment.
Higher volumes accounted for about 1/2 of our sales growth led once again by stronger global industrial activity which aided many of our businesses.
The global industrial recovery continues with solid growth in emerging regions and North America and with strengthening conditions in Europe.
The higher European activity levels outpaced our expectations of a few months ago.
Excellent volume growth was also a key factor in the record earnings performance by our Optical and Specialty Materials segment.
In construction end-used markets activity levels remained low in the developed regions as these markets have not demonstrated any convincing signs of imminent improvement.
Despite the market weakness our volumes in businesses serving these markets were modestly positive in comparison with an already low prior-year base.
Improved selling prices accounted for the majority of the company's remaining sales gains in the quarter.
Every reporting segment posted higher year-over-year pricing with the most significant percentage gains in Commodity Chemicals and Glass resulting in substantial earnings recovery in these segments versus the recession-impacted first quarter of last year.
In our Coatings businesses higher selling prices partially offset persistent raw material cost inflation.
Despite inflationary cost pressures operating margins in each Coatings segment were essentially flat with the prior year and our total Coatings operating earnings improved by nearly 12%.
Volume and pricing gains were supplemented by continued aggressive cost management actions.
We also expanded our product reformulation activities in an effort to utilize lower cost raw materials to limit inflationary impacts on our customers.
Lastly another growth lever for us is the continued deployment of our cash for earnings accretion.
While our recent acquisition activity has been minimal we repurchased about $275 million of PPG stock during the quarter bringing our total repurchases over the past 9 months to about $700 million at an average share price of $81.
As a result our share count has dropped nearly 3% versus last year's first quarter.
In summary our performance in the quarter was excellent.
Despite persistent inflationary pressures our overall segment margins improved by more than 300 basis points in comparison with last year and 150 basis points sequentially versus the fourth quarter of 2010.
We posted double-digit sales growth on strong volumes and higher pricing and achieved record first quarter earnings per share.
We also returned about $375 million of cash to shareholders including $90 million of dividend.
Looking ahead we remain optimistic as we anticipate similar economic trends in the second quarter which is seasonally our strongest sales quarter.
We remain focused on offsetting inflationary pressures with expected additional price gains in the second quarter in all our businesses.
Also our aggressive cost management and execution focus remains.
Finally we continue to work on accretive initiatives to deploy our cash.
We are applying our disciplined approach toward evaluating acquisitions and anticipate several small- to medium-sized bolt-on acquisitions over the next 6 to 9 months.
Lastly as a reflection of our outlook and our continued strong cash prospects we raised our quarterly dividend another $0.02 today to $0.57 per share which is our second increase in the past 9 months.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Now operator would you please give instructions and open the phone lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question will come from the line of David Begleiter Deutsche Bank.
Thank you.
Chuck you mentioned in -- to combat raw materials reformulation using more Chinese TiO2 how much have you been able to offset TiO2 usage with reformulation new technologies and Chinese sulfates? I would say that still -- those reformulation or additional sourcing options it would still be less or in low single-digit percentages in terms of our overall raw material usage.
And just on Q2 would you expect margin in Coatings to be up in Q2 year-over-year? I would say our Coatings margin should be comparable to the margins that you're seeing.
I think you're going to have some improvement in our seasonally stronger businesses in the second quarter.
But I would say that the margins would be comparable.
Thank you very much.
Thanks David.
And the next question will come from the line of Bob Koort Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Chuck I guess we've heard sort of different accounts of pricing in U.S.
architectural.
Your European competitor talks about not really seeing price yet at the big boxes.
We had Sherwin on today talking about their own stores really pushed through some -- a series of price hikes.
Can you sort of give us an appraisal of the landscape by channel regarding pricing specifically in the U.S.
market? Well what I would say is that it is probably company specific.
From a channel standpoint we are -- obviously the products and formulations are similar with each channel.
So I think the pressure the raw material pressure exists across the board.
We were able to implement price increases in the first quarter in all channels.
Obviously we are experiencing here in the second quarter additional raw material inflation on a year-over-year basis and sequential basis.
So we're weighing our options and looking at the marketplace talking with our customers.
And so I would say we're evaluating additional actions as we move into the second quarter and through the rest of the paint season.
Could you address what's going on with the auto builds globally and the impact from Japan and will we even notice it in your numbers? Or is that a small-enough piece auto OEM that's affected that it won't be that noticeable? There was no real impact in the first quarter from the tragic events in Japan because it was just at the end of the first quarter.
I would say there is going to be a small impact in the second quarter minimal in terms of the overall PPG sales.
I would say now we're looking at something on the order of a 1% impact on overall PPG sales in the second quarter from what I would call lower build in the second quarter versus the initial forecast probably concentrated more in the Japanese OEMs but affecting others more broadly.
We do not participate directly in any automotive sales in Japan but we do supply those customers outside of Japan especially here in North America and in Europe.
But our overall forecast if we say we're going to -- it'll impact the total company to the order of maybe 1% of sales in the second quarter we would anticipate making up those sales from an industry standpoint by the end of the year.
So if you look at the full year impact we don't see it as sustaining and actually we think there'll be some catch-up in the third and fourth quarters but an impact that's going to be concentrated in the second quarter.
Great.
And 1 man's opinion I like the new format.
So I'll get back in line hopefully to have another question at the end.
Okay.
Thank you Bob.
And the next question will come from the line of Frank Mitsch BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Following up on the commentary you're talking about looking at TiO2 substitutes in Chinese pigments and you were focused -- it looked in the commentary on the architectural EMEA the European business.
Can you comment on your progress in terms of that? I mean have you fully looked at it across the entire PPG Coatings platform and decided that those sort of moves in utilizing less TiO2 was more germane to Europe rather than the rest of the region? Am I reading too much into that? Where exactly are you on that process? No I'd say we're doing this broadly.
We use -- TiO2 probably has the highest concentration as you know Frank in the architectural businesses.
But we do use TiO2 in our other Coatings businesses.
So this is an across-the-board initiative on the part of PPG to expand our sourcing supplies.
So every business has targets has goals has qualifying additional suppliers.
But we are not trying to in any way take quality out of our formulations or products.
So we're looking right now to just expand sources of supply to give us more opportunities and to look more globally at these suppliers at these products.
And we're obviously having some success in expanding our supply base.
All right.
Fine.
So I read too much into the commentary that it was mostly -- that it was in the European side it's really across the board as to what you're looking at? Yes.
All right.
And then you made the comment that the volumes called 6% 7% up for the entire company and across each region it was about roughly the same.
So I was a little bit surprised by that moment of thought that you might have seen faster growth here or there.
So basically you're seeing as much growth in Europe and in  Asia.
And continuing on the volume side you mentioned that pricing -- you're expecting pricing gains in the second quarter which you also expect volume gains in the second quarter.
Well first on a regional basis I would say that we experienced volume gains in all regions led by Asia Pacific followed by Latin America and North America.
And in Europe we had volume gains but they weren't to the extent that we saw certainly in Asia and not as much here but there were certainly volume gains.
And again focused on those industrial -- on the industrial and automotive markets so principally we had volume gains in Architectural in Europe but very modest.
All right and you would anticipate continued volume gains in the second quarter as well? Yes we think that this is continuing.
With the point that Bob Koort brought up in the last question about we will see in the second quarter the impact on the supply chain in Automotive OEM especially with the Japanese manufacturers.
But aside from that we still see growth continuing in our markets and broad in terms of the end-use markets and the regions.
All right.
Terrific.
Thank you.
Thank you Frank.
And the next question will come from the line of P.J.
Juvekar Citi.
So several questions on this Chinese TiO2.
But isn't that mostly lower quality sulfide production? And is that good enough for European paints? Well we continue to work on our processing initiatives.
As you know we have built a very large business in every end-use market in coatings in China.
We have now close to $1 billion in sales there.
So we have extensive experience now with local or domestic production.
And we've learned in many cases how to work more successfully with these products.
So I wouldn't say it represents any sacrifice in terms of the quality of products or processes that we're using.
And typically how cheaper is that pigment compared to pigment that you would -- TiO2 that you would buy in U.S.
and Europe? At this point I would say it is less expensive.
Modestly so but it is less expensive and represents a good opportunity for us in both supply security and economic value.
Okay.
And just lastly you look at European architectural margins you're still about less than half of that of U.S.
performance businesses.
So as you improve manufacturing there and use less-expensive TiO2 and all that where do you think you can take those margins to? Well we have 2 points.
1 in the first quarter is a seasonally low quarter for any let's call it Northern Hemisphere Architectural business.
So those margins in Europe in architectural will move up in the second and third quarters and they have done a good job so far on very limited volume improvement in offsetting the inflationary increases.
And also you have to remember that we still have purchase price accounting at work in our EBIT reported segment earnings for architectural EMEA.
So if you look at it on an EBITDA basis our full year returns on an EBITDA basis are into the low teens.
And so we think that the ability to sustain those margins to have excellent cash flow in this level of construction market activity in Europe has been successful.
And we think there'll be more gains in the future both as the market improves and as we continue to work on supply chain and cost improvements.
Thank you.
And Vince your natural gas hedge is completely off now the higher cost ranges that you had? No P.J.
Just to refresh everybody we have higher pre-2010 hedges in primarily in our Commodity Chemical business but also a small portion in our Glass business.
We have -- they're in the range of between $7.50 and $8 depending on the quarter.
We had about just under 20% in the first quarter hedged.
And that bleeds off P.J.
at about 1% per month.
For the full year we're about 12% hedged at $7.50.
So we're continuing to experience that as a tailwind as we go throughout the year based on current market price.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question will come from the line of Kevin McCarthy Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Question on chlor-alkali.
It seems as though the market's tightened a fair amount in the wake of the crises in Japan.
Can you talk a little bit about your price realizations there? How much is flowing through? And then secondly I understand you declared force majeure at Natrium 2 days ago.
Maybe you could comment on whether that's just going to be a brief interruption or whether you would anticipate any meaningful impact on 2Q there.
First I'll take the pricing discussion for chlor-alkali.
Of the supply demand for caustic soda and for chlor-alkali more broadly has tightened up with the -- in light of the events in Japan.
They were a large exporter of air production to other areas of Asia Pacific.
So we have now -- we haven't seen and we didn't see an impact in the first quarter.
Second quarter demand will remain high.
Pricing has solidified.
We have on the chlorine side we have a $60 increase that is currently being implemented here at the beginning of the second quarter.
We have on the caustic side a $40-a-ton increase that has already been implemented at the end of the first quarter.
And an additional $60-a-ton increase that is being has been announced and is in the process of being implemented here in the second quarter.
So the pricing environment has strengthened in chlor-alkali and we see that continuing now for certainly through the next couple of quarters.
On the force majeure declaration at our Natrium plant a couple of days ago that was at the end of a scheduled outage.
And as we started up the plant we ran into a couple of equipment issues.
We are making good progress now in bringing that equipment back and now we're talking let's say on the order of days for this force majeure and the outage rather than any additional outage let's say rather than weeks or something more serious.
So there was no catastrophic event but we just did have some equipment issues as we started back up from that outage but we're confident that this thing is -- it's positive here and we should have some good news in the coming days.
Okay that's good to hear.
And then just as a follow-up Chuck what is the status of the pending bolt-on acquisition that you have in the Pacific Northwest on chlor-alkali? And maybe you can comment on kind of the background of that deal how it helps you.
Equa-Chlor we expect to close on that deal on the 2nd of May.
So it is in process.
And for us this was an attractive bolt-on acquisition.
It actually fit strategically with the rest of our footprint here in North America.
We thought that there was excellent synergies for PPG both in terms of our operations.
And we have not been a major player for a number of years on the West Coast.
And actually the acquisition has been welcomed I think by the market and some of our customers as increasing our flexibility and our ability to support them.
So for us it's a small bolt-on.
I think the timing is good with the improvements we're seeing in the Chlor-Alkali business here in North America.
It has a solid customer base and we think this is a logical and very nice acquisition opportunity and clearly a bolt-on for us in this business.
Okay.
Thank you Chuck.
The next question will come from the line of John McNulty Crédit Suisse.
Just a couple of questions.
In the Optical business you noted that there was going to be some higher growth focus and some incremental advertising and selling costs is that something that -- how should that be hitting the margin? Is it something where it'll be an incremental hit or does it just offset some of the positive leverage with sales going higher? I think what you'll see John is we think that it will improve our growth trajectory in the business.
We have some exciting new product developments on the Transition side which is the biggest single business in that Optical and Specialty Materials segment.
And I would look to see those margins sustain themselves but bring us a little stronger top line growth and comparable bottom line margins.
I'll remind you John the business has some seasonality to it as well.
Okay sure.
Thanks a lot.
And then with regard to your TiO2 supplies it sounds like you're looking for a broader supplier platform.
In terms of the contracts that you're looking for are you setting things up for longer term in the event that there may be supply issues that the market actually starts to further tighten here with the U.S.
or European markets getting better on the housing front? Well I would say that the -- I wouldn't say our contract practices or policies have changed.
We do try to contract to the extent that we can with most of our major suppliers.
So we have contracts in place now with TiO2 and with other major raw materials.
And we try to the extent possible to protect our interest going forward with these contracts in the event that there are supply disruptions or issues.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
And the next question will come from the line of Bill Young Chemspeak.
You mentioned maybe switching to some other polymer technologies in order to mitigate raw material costs.
Could you expand a little bit on that please? Well I think the entire industry the entire coatings industry is faced with the increasing cost pressures that we've talked about in TiO2 and other commodities.
TiO2 does provide -- as you know the principal benefit of TiO2 is its hiding powers in paint formulation.
So all of the industry not only the coatings companies but I think all of the broader non-TiO2 chemical suppliers are looking and working on initiatives -- research initiatives to develop either new formulations or new products that can go into our paint formulations that will minimize the amount of TiO2.
And some of those projects and for those of us who have been around for many years we can remember when we had a lot of these substitute type of products that were actively in development.
Some of those continued through the years but maybe without the same emphasis.
And I think you've seen from everyone in the industry now a focus on research and development to help offset what has been obviously 1 of the most inflationary raw materials in our basket.
Well I think I don't know 10 15 years ago Rohm and Haas introduced what they called ropaque and do you think that had any meaningful impact? And how about the second generation types of products along these lines? Why yes I remember the days of the ropaque polymers from Rohm and Haas.
And I think they had some general acceptance in the industry and were used.
And I don't know that those uses were growing over time but certainly now with the Rohm and Haas assets being in Dow's portfolio we've seen a number of initiatives and announcements from Dow that they're putting more emphasis and more research behind those products.
So they haven't gone away.
And I think in many cases now the non-TiO2 producers are working hard to come up with products that they feel will help the coatings companies with this raw materials supply and pricing issue.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Bill.
And the next question will come from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn Longbow Research.
A couple of questions as most of mine have been answered.
First of all when you talk about up to maybe 1/2 dozen acquisitions of the bolt-on nature that you're getting ready to complete over the next 6 to 9 months are they likely to be -- can you give us an idea of where they would be geographically? And business-wise are you looking to take advantage of some opportunities in the chlor-alkali land perhaps to expand your footprint or is it going to be confined to the coatings market? Our focus is although not exclusively so it's going to be primarily in the coatings space.
And geographically we have talked in the past that we wanted to improve our position in the emerging regions or the developing regions.
Those have in some cases proved to be somewhat challenging.
The 1 acquisition that we made in the fourth quarter of last year which was Bairun in China was 1 that we were able to complete there.
But I would say geographically we've broadened the search now.
We've also included Latin America.
We're also looking at Europe where maybe the growth prospects aren't as strong but where we have already a very well-established position and that would give us an opportunity for more cost synergies to get us through what has been a lower growth environment here for the past couple of years but strengthen our position where we are already well situated.
All right.
That's helpful.
And on the second question I just want to make sure I understand the volume in foreign exchange impacts in the EMEA decorative coatings as well as volume growth in Commodity Chemicals.
What's the question Dmitry? The question is what's the volume in foreign exchange contributions to the European Coating Paint business? And what is the volume contribution to the commodity and if there is any foreign exchange in there as well? In the Architectural Europe business currency was negligible less than 1%.
And in Commodity Chemicals currency was -- make sure I got the right number here again virtually negligible rounding to 1%.
Chuck mentioned in Architectural Coatings EMEA it's pretty well split between volume and price.
Okay.
So about 3 1/2% to 4% in each then? And [indiscernible] chemicals of the 27% 28% growth that you saw I would imagine it's mostly price but was there any positive volume? Yes there was positive volume but you're right the bulk is price.
All single-digit volume? Yes.
Okay.
That's all I have.
Thank you.
And the next question will come from the line of John Roberts Buckingham.
Inc.</strong> This is Gaji Balakaneshan sitting in for John.
First question aside from nat gas prices and maybe the random force majeure is there anything you see that could affect commodity chemical profitability for the rest of the year? Well again I the biggest driver there Gaji is demand.
Demand remained strong.
Chuck mentioned the unfortunate events in Japan have constrained supply at least temporarily.
So we've said since the beginning or the end of the year we remained bullish on this segment and that still holds true today.
That we feel good about the supply-demand economics.
We do have that tailwind from natural gas so we feel good about the segment.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then with the constant rising inflation for commodities at what point do you start getting concerned about demand destruction? Maybe not with your customers but from the economic activity in general? I would say that it's a concern for I think not only our company but every company.
I mean we went through as we all know in 2008 -- in the first half of 2008 we had very solid global growth a lot of inflation especially on the oil and petrochemical side.
And it ended badly with a financial crisis Lehman and the like in the second half of the year.
So I think inflation is a concern for any business but in terms of where we see economic growth or the macroeconomic conditions we think it's still solid.
Now we're going to have probably more inflation and I think as you see companies that are in the middle of the supply chain like we are in many of our products as we push through the inflation that we're receiving on a lot of these raw materials or metals and we push them through to our customers it will lead to more inflation at the consumer level where you really haven't seen it as much here in this country.
But we have a weak dollar and you have strong growth outside so I think the risk here is that inflation heightens especially in the U.S.
And that crimps the buying power of the consumers and threatens some of the nice recovery we've had in end-use markets like automotive.
Inc.</strong> Would you say that -- just to follow-up on that would you say that your margins are higher than back in '08 when we last saw these price levels in commodities? So maybe that -- it seems like everybody has higher margins this time around so maybe that demand destruction started happening earlier that it would have in '08 if we didn't have the price shock $140-barrel oil.
Gaji I think that if you look at our margins 2 big deltas versus '08.
1 we took a tremendous amount of cost out during the recession in coatings.
I don't have that specific number in front of me but hundreds of millions.
And secondarily were still down close to 10% in volume.
Now we've worked hard to offset price in raws.
But volume and cost are the 2 big deltas versus '08.
And one's positive obviously and one's negative to margins.
Inc.</strong> Okay Great.
Thanks for to help.
And the next question will come from the line of Don Carson Susquehanna.
LLLP</strong> Thank you.
A follow-up on chlor-alkali Vince what was the sequential increase in ECU pricing and the roughly $170 of ECU increases on the board? What do you think the sequential progression could be in Q2 and Q3? We don't give specific pricing Don for obvious reasons commercial reasons.
But we did get our fair share of the caustic increase.
Chlorine held fairly stable throughout the quarter.
And as Chuck mentioned earlier we have 2 price nominations for Q2 that based on recent market events I think he would feel good about them or emboldened about them.
LLLP</strong> So do you expect what to give out half of those in Q2 maybe and the balance in Q3? Historically based on historical perspective that's probably accurate.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
And Chuck back in '08 chlor-alkali was a nice hedge against rising coatings raws and that business should be up nicely this year.
I mean how much of the increase in your coatings raw materials do you think the improved chlor-alkali earnings this year could potentially offset? Well it's going to be a significant assist to us on this and we have appreciated in the past the offset that we get sometimes in these really inflationary periods.
So we're going to see we think in the improvement year-over-year in chlor-alkali.
We're going to offset quite a lot of that coatings raw material increase.
On an overall corporate basis we don't tend to look at it like that but from an external standpoint we're certainly there.
We try to evaluate these businesses on their own.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up on Coatings you mentioned that America's and Asia's architectural volumes were up.
Was that all in Asia? What did your U.S.
architectural volumes do this quarter and...
U.S.
-- okay go ahead.
LLLP</strong> And then just wondering if you'd sort of segregate that by channel and make any market share comments whether you're up or down.
The volume improvements in Architectural Coatings were modest.
We're talking low single-digits.
We had more improvement in terms of top line sales from pricing initiatives.
And we're obviously facing lots of raw material initiatives there.
So we had some modest volume improvements.
And I would say that it was from a channel perspective I would say it was about even.
We have a slightly different quarter here Easter is later this year the weather has been a little slower.
So there are a few little offsets so I think the real trends will probably be more evident after the end of the second quarter.
But we certainly think we've come up slightly off the bottom.
And most of the things that I've seen out there in terms of some of the commentary around commercial construction or even residential is that maybe were going to have modest improvement and that was the case in Europe as well.
So a little bit of volume mostly more price and I would say I'm not -- I haven't seen other announcements and I think it's too early to say there'll be any significant share change for PPG right now.
LLLP</strong> Thank you.
Thanks Don.
And the next question is a follow-up question from the line of Frank Mitsch BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Yes just a couple follow-ups on the chlor-alkali side I'm trying to figure out here that you're going to lose some volumes with the force majeure and the turnaround.
But it seems like pricing in the second quarter is going to be higher significantly higher than what you had.
And so my question is as I look at the calculus there are we looking at a second quarter that could be slight to up from the first quarter? Commodity chemical second quarter Frank? Correct yes.
I mean you've got -- obviously you're taking a volume hit but your margins are going to be -- your margin per ton is going to be higher.
3 moving parts there Frank.
1 the downtime.
So a fewer tons.
The second would be the maintenance costs will be higher which is multimillion dollar shifts higher in maintenance costs.
And you're exactly right we do expect stronger pricing to compensate if not more than compensate for that.
All right.
And then as we look at it in the third quarter you're just going to start the quarter at a higher level and then you'll get the tonnage back.
All right fair.
And then Bob you mentioned that you bought back or Chuck mentioned in his speech you guys bought back $275 million worth of stock.
And you also mentioned that you feel very good about adding some bolt-ons on the M&amp;A front over the next 6 to 9 months does that preclude any additional actions on share repurchase? How are you thinking about that? It doesn't preclude any additional action.
But we have been certainly saying we're looking for activities that are earnings accretive which should be share repurchases and acquisitions to the extent acquisitions are running at a higher level we'll dial down the share repurchases.
And we still feel very good about the stock price.
It's still at a point where share repurchases are attractive.
All right.
And now you're paying a higher dividend on it so that helps you as well.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you Frank.
And the next question will come from the line of Brian Maguire Goldman Sachs.
Thanks for taking my question.
Obviously an admirable job keeping margins flat at the Coatings businesses and I noticed in the press release some commentary about aggressive cost management.
And given that you guys did a great job of pulling costs out during the downturn and were kind of at the point of the business cycle where companies are usually adding them.
Just wondering if you could expand on where you're seeing those opportunities and if that could continue throughout 2011 to keep offsetting continuing higher raws? Well I would say that we haven't been able to completely offset raw material increases with pricing.
But we have continued to get favorable volume which is helping us.
And cost initiatives we're always working on these.
We haven't had any announced restructurings since 2009.
But we continue to try to look for ways to run our businesses more efficiently.
But I wouldn't say that we have significant new cost initiatives outside of what we're trying to do on a regular basis.
I'd say that as the volume comes back we're being very disciplined on controlling corporate overhead.
And therefore we're seeing overhead as a percent of that incremental volume growth at much lower levels.
Okay that makes sense.
And then if I think about your business in terms of incremental margins thought about it being in a range of 30% to 40% and you were kind of in that range this quarter.
Obviously that gets tougher to do as you go on and as we get closer back to prior peak levels.
But given that we're still -- volumes are still maybe in the order of high single-digit percentages below prior peaks can we still get in that range on that volume growth and still get that kind of leverage? Or are we maybe moving it down a decile here? We're comfortable with that range well into this year Brian.
Okay.
Great.
And then just 1 housekeeping thing could you tell us what the quarter-ending share count was? It's in the press release.
160.5 I think.
Got you.
Diluted.
Diluted.
All right.
Thanks very much.
[Operator Instructions] We do have another question it is a follow-up from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn Longbow Research.
Quick question excuse me on a comment that was made earlier in answer to 1 of the questions.
When you talked about margins you said that they should be comparable in the second quarter to what we see.
I just want to make sure comparable to what we saw in the first quarter or comparable to what we saw a year ago? Dmitry our business is very seasonal...
So it would be year-over-year.
So it would be year-over-year.
Year-over-year.
Okay that's what I wanted to make sure because otherwise it was really scary.
Okay thank you.
Thanks for the clarification.
And there are no more questions in the queue at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back to Chuck Bunch for closing remarks.
Please proceed.
Thank you very much for your attention and all the good questions that we had.
And we look forward to talking to you again at the end of our second quarter.
So thank you very much.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen for your participation.
This concludes today's presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 PPG Industries Inc.'s Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Carol and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder ladies and gentlemen this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
It is now my pleasure to turn the presentation over to begin with to Mr.
Vince Morales Vice President Investor Relations.
Vince you may begin.
Thank you Carol.
Good afternoon.
This is Vince Morales Vice President of Investor Relations for PPG Industries.
Welcome to PPG's Second Quarter 2011 Financial Teleconference.
Joining me on the call today from PPG are Chuck Bunch Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Navikas Senior Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
Our comments relate to the financial information released on Thursday July 21 2011.
As a reminder to everyone based on our modified quarterly earnings call process about one hour ago we posted detailed commentary and accompanying presentation slides on our Investor Center at our website at ppg.com.
These slides are also available on the webcast site for this call.
We do not read these prepared remarks during the call.
During the call Chuck will share his overall perspective on the company's results for the quarter and then we'll move directly to Q&amp;A.
Both the prepared commentary and discussion during this call may contain forward-looking statements reflecting the company's current view about future events and their potential effect on PPG's operating and financial performance.
These statements involve uncertainties and risks which may cause actual results to differ.
The company is under no obligation to provide subsequent updates to these forward-looking statements.
This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The company has provided in the appendix of the presentation materials which are available on our website reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
For any additional information please refer to PPG's filings with the SEC.
Now let me introduce PPG's Chairman and CEO Chuck Bunch.
Thank you Vince and welcome everyone.
Today PPG announced earnings per share which are up 30% versus the prior year and a record for any quarter in the company's history.
This represents 4 consecutive quarters in which we delivered record earnings underscoring the benefits of our broad end-use market reach and the global business portfolio we have built.
Perhaps more importantly our solid execution and operational excellence played a key role toward a strong performance in the quarter.
We delivered higher pricing in every segment and continued our hallmark of aggressive cost management.
This allowed us to overcome several transitory factors that impacted volumes in several of our businesses including the full brunt of the automotive OEM industry production curtailments due to supplier disruptions related to the Japan crisis scheduled and unscheduled production downtime in our Commodity Chemicals segment and poor weather conditions for architectural painting in the United States early in the quarter.
The month of April was most heavily impacted by these factors and our year-over-year volumes were negative in that month.
Our volumes rebounded soundly in the remainder of the quarter to a growth rate comparable to the past several quarters.
We posted positive volume growth in all regions with Asia Pacific delivering the highest growth rate once again driven by solid industrial gains in China.
Our coatings segments delivered excellent results.
The Performance Coatings segment established a new earnings record and the Industrial Coatings segment matched their second quarter earnings record.
This was done despite operating margins for these segments that dropped modestly versus last year as a result of the weakened April volumes and a European architectural home center customer bankruptcy charge.
Our coatings margins in the months of May and June were consistent with the prior year as volume growth resumed and all 8 of our coatings businesses delivered higher pricing.
Our Optical and Specialty Materials segment also achieved record quarterly sales and earnings.
This performance was despite increased optical advertising costs as we broadened our geographic exposure by capitalizing on high growth opportunities in the emerging regions where we have delivered sales growth of 30% this quarter.
Commodity Chemicals sales grew due to higher pricing and earnings doubled despite increased maintenance costs and lower facility utilization due to extended downtime.
Glass results also improved on strong fiberglass pricing.
Lastly we have continued to deploy cash on earnings-accretive initiatives.
In doing so we have remained mindful of our tradition of returning cash to our shareholders.
Fully illustrating that tradition is that over the past 12 months we generated $1.2 billion in cash from operations and have returned 100% of that cash to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
This past quarter we also finalized a few acquisitions and pre-paid $400 million of debt that was not due until 2012.
In summary I'm pleased that we were able to deliver record results despite some uncommon events this past quarter.
We relied heavily on our strong execution a PPG heritage and were aided by our portfolio balance.
Looking ahead we anticipate the global economic recovery will continue although at its current uneven pace.
The resumption of automotive OEM production in the second half of the year and our strong position in high-growth businesses and regions such as Aerospace and Asia Pacific will supplement our growth.
Also although inflation pressures are moderating somewhat we intend to secure additional pricing in businesses where we have not fully offset the inflated raw material costs.
Finally we intend to deploy between $500 million and $1 billion of cash in the second half of the year with a focus on earnings accretion.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Now operator would you please give instructions and open the phone lines for questions? [Operator Instructions] Gentlemen your first question will come to you from the line of John McNulty of Crédit Suisse.
Just a couple of questions on the Architectural business.
In the volume trends in the U.S.
can you give us a breakdown of what you were seeing in the big box versus your own stores? I would say those were roughly similar John.
I think again weakness early in the quarter improvement as we went through the quarter.
But I would say between our own stores and the big boxes fairly similar trends.
Okay.
And then in the Olympic ONE brand that you launched can you give us some color as to the type of premium that you're going to be getting relative to your current platform and then if you're going to be getting incremental shelf space or if this is something that should be eating into the regular Olympic brand? How should we be thinking about that? Well the price point for Olympic ONE which is a -- one of the most exciting new product introductions that we've had in many years it's now has been fully stocked in the Lowe's stores.
Our price premium for Olympic ONE versus our current Olympic Premium line is on the order of 20% to 25%.
We think from a value standpoint to the consumer this will be one of the most -- one of the best value propositions if not the best value proposition in terms of quality of paint in the can the ability to use paint in primer one-coat coverage.
We think that this is going to be excellent value for the consumers at a premium price versus our current Olympic Premium.
Olympic Premium will stay in the Lowe's stores.
We are not getting a significant incremental shelf space with this but we are now sharing the existing shelf space that we have with our current Olympic Premium.
And we're getting displays end caps strong support in-store from our valued customer.
And we're backing that up with a strong advertising push to get the message out on this exciting new product.
Great.
And if I can just ask one last question on the European architectural business it look likes volumes are actually finally starting to recover.
And I guess I'm wondering what's driving that if it's real demand if it's share gains.
Because I was a little bit surprised to see that up to 3% that you were highlighting.
Yes we had a nice volume improvement in Europe.
I would say that was in Continental Europe with a little more strength in the French market.
We also though had volume improvements in the Benelux and Eastern Europe.
The U.K.
market continues to be the weakest market that we participate in and there we didn't experience the same volume growth.
Gentlemen your next question comes to you from the line of Bob Koort of Goldman Sachs.
Chuck I made an observation that since the beginning of the year your stock price is up about 7% or 8% but the forward earnings estimates by TheStreet are up about 23%.
So clearly something's happened to value the stock.
And I'm just curious on 2 fronts.
One does that seem unreasonable to you and we can expect maybe a little bit more aggressive share repurchase? It looks like it curtailed a bit in the second quarter.
And then two as we look into the second half of '11 into '12 do you think we'll see a little bit more of the weight pulled by the coatings businesses to show some growth there as you get those prices and maybe some moderating of raw materials? I would say on the share price to earnings multiple I think as most CEOs we always feel that our company share price is undervalued.
I'd say in this case we continue to report excellent results.
I think maybe there was some weakness out there because of some other announcements in the space that companies that may be weren't as confident about their performance.
But we feel that there's excellent value in the share price.
In the second half of the year we have as we discussed plenty of cash that we intend to deploy.
This is -- as you look at our cash flow through the year it usually builds in our company through the second half of the year.
So we will have additional opportunities for what we call value-accreting cash transactions concluding.
I think more aggressive share buybacks.
I think the second half of the year also from a raw materials standpoint I see some moderation.
If you look more specifically at the organic raw materials side we've seen some price declines.
You've seen overall lower prices in Asia and here in the propylene molecule and in some of the resins.
So I think that's going to help moderate the price increases in the second half.
We're still looking at inorganic raw materials specifically the pigment and TiO2.
We don't see the same price declines but we think overall we're going to see a flattening as we've been talking about in raw material prices that should allow us to recapture some of the margin that we've lost in the supply or value chain.
And I think it will be a good opportunity for our Coatings businesses to demonstrate the earnings and margin power that we've been talking about for the last several years.
Terrific.
And if I might add one follow up I noticed in your regional variation that obviously Asia Pacific continuing to pull the greatest growth rate but Latin America looked a little bit lighter.
Is there something in one area particularly that made that a little bit skinnier this quarter at 1%? I would say that the architectural business this is not their strong season in the southern hemisphere.
And I think you've seen some announcements about the architectural market in Brazil.
I would say that it hasn't slowed down but it is moderating.
And there has been what I would call some pricing activity or market-share activity in Brazil in particular that probably moderated some of the let's call it the margins in that business in Brazil.
So I would say that that was probably the weakest market in South America or Latin America for us.
Gentlemen your next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch of Wells Fargo Securities.
Chuck in your commentary you mentioned that in the auto refinish business that it's showing some good growth in Asia Pacific as well as U.S.
market share gains.
Can you provide some more color regarding that? Well we continue to be very pleased with the performance of our Asia Pacific refinish business.
Those are the fastest-growing -- not only automotive OEM markets but also automotive aftermarkets.
And the car park in China and India is growing at rates unlike anything that we see in the more mature markets in North America and in Western Europe.
We have the number one automotive refinish business in China.
We are very well positioned in automotive refinish in India.
And those markets have continued to provide us with a good growth and our teams are executing very well.
Here in North America the biggest difference for us has been in the success of our waterborne automotive refinish systems.
We think we have an excellent-performing product and even in areas where there are air quality compliance issues we're seeing the customers in the body shops embrace our product.
And even in areas that are not yet in-compliance regions those distributors and automotive repair shops who are trying to get a little bit ahead of the curve in terms of conversion of water-based systems have been driving our growth in this market.
So good performance in both regions for our refinish business.
All right.
So technology is a key factor then in your ability to pick up market share in the U.S.? Yes.
All right.
And then obviously you're talking about spending $0.5 billion to $1 billion the balance of the year for earnings accretion either I guess share buyback or acquisitions.
Can you talk about the pipeline that you see out there the valuations that are out there and how confident are you that you're going to be able to execute on some of the M&amp;A that you're targeting? We have a robust pipeline.
We've had we continue to work our acquisition pipeline throughout the world.
I would say that from a valuation standpoint China is a little on the pricier side because as we talked in earlier conversation there is an active IPO market in China even for smaller companies on these secondary exchanges.
So we are competing in some cases there with the opportunity for these companies to IPO.
But I would say in Europe in Eastern Europe in other emerging regions in the Middle East Africa Latin America we think we'll be able to execute several of these transactions that we've been working on and we hope to announce several of them certainly as we go through the second half of the year.
Gentlemen your next question comes from the line of Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP</strong> Couple of questions on the commodity side.
What did the outages and extra maintenance costs run in the quarter? What were your operating rates in the quarter? And you talked about I guess an outage at Lake Charles or plant maintenance turnaround this quarter.
Just wondered what impact that will have? And Vince can you give us the delta in pricing? I know you don't like to give the absolute number but how much was ECU pricing up sequentially? Don the maintenance was certainly more than $5 million year-over-year.
Our operating rates were below 90 in the quarter which is below industry rate as you know.
We don't give pricing but we got our fair share of the price increases that were announced and pricing was up sequentially and obviously year-over-year as well.
In Q3 we do have a fairly -- our largest unit out and that will probably result in a similar sequential production rate but it will be down again year-over-year.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
And is there a maintenance charge associated with that? And then also how about Equa-Chlor? Is that accretive in the quarter and should be accretive again this quarter? Maintenance will be modestly lower in Q3 than Q2 Don but still up year-over-year.
And I'll let Chuck talk about Equa-Chlor.
Equa-Chlor has been accretive since day one so we had 2 two months of Equa-Chlor operations.
And the acquisition has performed well above expectations and accretive in May and June the 2 months that we own the property.
So went off to a great start.
And I'm sure Don you saw the gain we recognized in the quarter from -- and we bought the assets at below fair market value so we had the accounting requirements required us to write those up to fair market value so that was a gain in the quarter.
LLLP</strong> And Chuck was that a one-off opportunistic acquisition? Or do you want to continue to grow your chlor-alkali business? I would say it was a -- it certainly wasn't part of -- it is not part of our core strategy to make these types of bolt-ons.
It made a lot of sense for us in terms of our overall operating footprint and the things that from an asset value that the transaction brought us.
We are not though -- we have not significantly changed our strategy in chlor-alkali.
And we're not looking to make any significant acquisition plays in that business.
Gentlemen your next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
In terms of raw material costs the frequency and magnitude of these titanium dioxide increases continues to escalate can you talk about your raw material basket how much you think it might rise and how the delta between your selling price realizations and that inflation is likely to trend in the back half of the year in the coatings businesses? Well our -- as I mentioned earlier we think the overall basket of raw materials for PPG is going to flatten out here in the second half.
We may see some increase on the inorganic side but we think that is going to be balanced out by decreases on the organic side in both our resin solvents and the like.
We've seen some of the building block chemicals going down in price here and in Asia.
So we're looking for a moderation or flattening out in the second half of the year.
And we think we've been capturing about 75% of the raw material impact in our prices.
We still think that we're catching up with our prices.
And as we go through the year we think we're going to be able to offset more of that increase in the second half of the year than we've seen here in the first half as we've been kind of chasing a moving target.
And so I'm confident that our team is going to continue to execute on pricing where necessary and we're continuing to focus on operational excellence cost reduction so we can try to minimize the impact of these increases on our own businesses and our customers.
Chuck just a follow-up on that of the 75% of cost inflation that you're capturing would that number vary meaningfully by distribution channel? Maybe you can just talk a little bit about your experience in company-owned stores versus big boxes and smaller dealers? I would say that it hasn't varied significantly by channel.
I think the issues are -- that we're facing are also being -- we're participating in all 3 channels so we're seeing similar issues that are facing our customers.
In all of those channels I think the competitors are facing similar issues.
So I would say that recapture of the raw material price increase is probably similar by channel.
Kevin the difference is by business.
So architectural it's similar by channel but by business some businesses are better equipped to offset it than others based on contracts et cetera.
Understood.
And then a final question if I may on U.S.
architectural.
I saw you characterize April as off 25% due to the adverse weather.
And I understand it would have come back in May and June.
So if I net all of that out how would you characterize the net impact of weather on that business in the quarter? Well weather I think you saw the -- maybe the weather impact in April.
Overall we were -- the volume was down just slightly on -- in the business in the second quarter and I would say that it's low single-digits volume.
And that's probably slightly better than what we have been seeing over the last several quarters in the business.
So I think it's an indication that the market has bottomed and maybe starting to improve slightly.
We had a stronger quarter in the second quarter of 2010 I think because of that first-time buyers mortgage credit and the like.
But I see some still sporadic and there's mixed data.
But by and large I'd say the information around the housing market even though it's not I would say ecstatic is slightly positive.
And so I continue to remain optimistic that we're not going to have a robust recovery.
I think we have seen the worst and we're going to continue to see very modest volume improvements as we go through the year.
The second half of last year was quite weak in the architectural market here.
So I would expect that things will be slightly better.
Although we haven't seen a significant change in the trends they're not deteriorating certainly.
Gentlemen your next question comes to you from the line of P.J.
Juvekar of Citi.
AXA today talked about consumer trading down in paint.
And given that you sell a lower price point paint at Lowe's I'm wondering if you've seen any benefit from share gains there? I would say we have not seen that trend significantly here in the North American market.
In the European market where we have a good position I would say it's not been significant.
We feel like we don't have up-to-date share information on a quarterly basis but we've held our own in Europe if not slightly improved our share position.
So I wouldn't think it is a significant trend for us.
And obviously as with many of our customers we're trying to sell the highest-quality products even if sometimes we know that the consumers are looking in this economy to maximize value.
Okay.
And can you give us any update on your efforts to reduce TiO2 intensity in paints? Have you had any success with any of your trials? We feel pretty good about a couple of the initiatives that we've had to improve the productivity or the efficiency of TiO2 usage in our paint formulations.
We think that the results look promising although I would tell you that we don't expect a significant improvement in the second half of this year.
We have a good inventory level of both TiO2 and paints but I think it's going to be a 2012 and beyond number.
But everyone in the industry both I think the other coatings companies and the non-TiO2 producers in the chemical industry everyone's working to either improve the substitute products or improve formulations or the productivity of those molecules in our formulations.
So I think you will see a bending of that demand curve over time as we all try to use more efficiently this increasingly expensive raw material for coatings.
And finally you said that trends at your own stores versus big boxes were similar which I thought was surprising given that DI was gaining share from contractors.
Is that not the case anymore? Well I would say that we haven't seen a big change in trends in the market this year.
Obviously share data is still -- it's still early in the paint season.
We haven't seen the reporting from all of our retail customers.
So I would say there's not a significant change in the trends from what we see.
Gentlemen your next question comes from the line of David Begleiter of Deutsche Bank.
Back to TiO2.
You mentioned bending the demand curve.
Have you been able to use -- incorporate more Chinese TiO2? And in terms of your efforts in the lab what are you most excited about? And could that be material in terms of TiO2 reduction in perhaps 3 or 4 years or in the order magnitude may be 15% to 20%? I would say that we're -- we've been using more Chinese TiO2 both in Asia Pacific as well as in our developed markets.
So that continues to be an opportunity for us and as we've made acquisitions including the most recent one in China we found them using Chinese TiO2 effectively.
There was an additional processing step.
So we've been I think actively trying to improve our utilization of Chinese TiO2 and it is increasing.
Now in terms of bending the demand curve let's call it for TiO2 in any of the paint formulations I would say that some of the numbers you were talking about are probably on the high end of 20% change in TiO2 loading or usage in our paint formulations is probably on the high end.
I think traditionally we've said it's going to be in the near term somewhere in the order of mid-single digits if we're all successful in some of these initiatives.
And so I would still be targeting that over the near term 3 or 4 years out.
I think you should -- you could see some bigger changes.
And I think we all are working hard to improve not only the quality of paint but the formulating around the raw material.
So I think you're going to see a change over time and -- but I don't know that in the near term you're going to see changes to the magnitude that you're talking about Dave.
And Chuck one more thing.
Just -- there's been a lot of M&amp;A in chemical the last 6 months.
In coatings both and AXA have digested your recent large acquisitions.
Are we coming to another point of large-scale M&amp;A in coatings from your perspective in the next perhaps 1 to 2 years? I mean I'm not sure.
I can't answer that specifically.
There's been more consolidation so there are fewer big players.
I think you're still going to see a very active small- to medium-sized acquisition market.
The bigger transactions are more complex in today's environment.
But there are some opportunities.
So I think it's possible although I'm not sure that it is the most likely segment of the chemical industry to undergo some big M&amp;A.
Gentlemen your next question comes from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn of Longbow Research.
Nice quarter and most of my questions have been answered.
But I do want to follow-up on a couple of points.
The Protective and Marine business which was flat in the quarter was there anything specific about year-over-year comps? Or is it an indication of perhaps that market just slowing down secularly? There's some -- as we look at the cycle in new builds for Marine we've said that this was going to be a flat to down year for new build activity in Asia Pacific.
So I would say that the volumes that we report are more a reflection of that.
I think the -- and that's more in the Marine segment.
What we've seen in the Protective area which is more infrastructure-related has been good.
And the maintenance and repair side of the market has been solid.
So it's more a reflection of new build in Marine in Asia Pacific.
The first quarter we saw a little bit of a positive volume I believe in that business.
Now it's flat in the second quarter.
If you expect it to be flat to down for the year should we expect the second half of the year then to be down for this business? I would say that the volumes we're expecting would be I think somewhat flat here Dmitry.
I don't think we're looking for a dramatic change in either positive or negative again with the balance of protective plus maintenance or repair being up new builds being down and overall volumes being fairly flat.
Got it.
Second question you mentioned that -- on the slides or at least there was a call out of that the fact that you expect the fourth quarter 2011 to have a little bit of a catch up on the automotive OEM side from the softness we've seen in the second quarter after the earthquake.
So how should we think about the kind of the seasonality in this business versus the typical seasonality where you have a significant tail-off in the fourth quarter? Dmitry we expect 3Q to be a very typical quarter.
There is a -- we see the OEM assembly plants taking traditional downtime for the most part.
And we expect the majority if not all of the lost sales we had in the second quarter to occur or we'll benefit from in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
So instead of taking kind of a Christmas shutdown do you think that the plants will continue to work for another week or so to try to catch up with volumes they missed in the first half of the year? Or accelerate their production pace yes.
Another question I have is on the Optical and Specialty business.
You didn't give us any details on the breakdown of volume price mix but if I'm just looking at the details that you did give us in the overall company-wide price volume mix it looks like most of the optical growth came from currency.
And it looked like volume actually had been down a little bit.
I'm sorry yes pricing may have been down a little bit.
Is that what happened? No pricing was relatively flat.
Volume was positive and there was a positive currency impact.
So I would say that that's the equation to get to those sales numbers in optical.
The silica business was actually strong both from the volume the pricing and currency standpoint.
Okay.
And then you also mentioned that the Silicas business would benefit from higher tire and battery markets.
Is that a share gain situation? Or I mean -- or is it just the overall OEM -- kind of what's driving the higher tire and battery sales this year versus last year? What's happening now the tire market globally is very strong especially here in the developed markets.
So in North America I think you have a situation where there was a lot of restructuring in the industry.
There were some tariffs that were put up and so the North American tire industry as an example is working full out.
But the biggest reason behind this demand growth in Silicas is that Silicas is a specialty chemical additive in the tire manufacturing process and it improves rolling resistance in tire performance.
So what you're seeing today is the effect of what we would call the green tires.
So you improve your miles per gallon performance with these higher silica-loaded tires.
So I would say this is not a -- necessarily a share play.
I think all the silica manufacturers are enjoying this improved volume.
So it's more of a -- the performance attributes of silicas and the increased sensitivity for consumers both at the OEM and the replacement market.
Plus some of the CAFE standards and the other mileage standards that are being promulgated now it is really requiring higher miles per gallon per vehicle.
And one of the least expensive ways to get that better mileage is incorporate more silica into the tire formulation.
Okay I got it.
That's very helpful.
And final question can you give us the relative sizes of the U.S.
architectural business versus -- I guess it's Asian that's the other part of the Performance Coatings right? What the Asia architectural you're talking about? Well in architectural today represents about 25% of our Performance Coatings segment.
And our North American business is the largest segment of that.
We have a -- in Asia Pacific we have a nice-sized business in Australia New Zealand a much smaller business in China.
And those are the 2 main markets that we participate in in Asia Pacific.
Okay.
So most of the 25% that's architectural paint is North American? Yes we have also South American business that's based in Brazil but that's a part of that as well.
But the North American architectural is the biggest business in that business unit within Performance Coatings.
Gentlemen your next question comes from the line of John Roberts of Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> It sounds like you're pulsing the advertising and merchandising in Optical? Is there a follow-on acceleration in earnings? Because earnings growth was less than revenue growth I think during the segment.
John the biggest factor there is we did spend a considerable amount more for that strong growth we realized in emerging regions.
And the spend there modestly diluted the margins.
Inc.</strong> And does it now flip in the next quarter where we have earnings? No we think that we see good opportunities abroad and our focus remains to secure higher growth rates and still have a very -- well I'll call it a strong margin performance.
Inc.</strong> Were you down in any of the developed markets in that segment in the...
No volume growth we had volume growth in all major regions.
[Operator Instructions] Gentlemen you have a follow-up question from the line of Bob Koort of Goldman Sachs.
It's actually Brian Maguire on for Bob.
I think last quarter you said that you thought you were confident that you'd be able to cover 90% of the raw material increase with price and after another quarter where propylene went up and then came back down and TiO2 is up we've seen some puts and takes there.
But I was just wondering if you could update us on if you think that that's still a good number to use or if there's a different number you're comfortable that now? I think that's a good target for us.
We didn't make as much progress -- as we've said we need one to more typically two quarters in order to fully offset the raw material price increases.
Those were still coming in the second quarter.
So we didn't have a significant catch up for our prices versus the impact of the raw materials.
But as I've said in the second half we're looking at flattening raw material cost.
We expect now to realize more pricing here in the second half so 90% I think over the next 2 quarters is a realistic target for us.
Okay.
And just one housekeeping one.
What do you expect the annualized interest expense savings to be on the $400 million of debt that you just repurchased? That would be between $1 million to $2 million per quarter.
Gentlemen your next question comes from the line of Robert Reitzes of BroadArch Capital.
Just one follow question on the caustic and chlorine.
How long do you -- is the plant down number one? And number two what does it represent of your total productive capacity in the industries if you know that? The plant will be down in Q3 you're talking about Bob just to clarify? Yes.
Plant will be down -- we're talking a couple of weeks so the impact on -- again for PPG alone the impact's similar to what we had experienced in Q2 and the number of tons.
I would say for the industry it's not significant other than inventories.
Holistically in the inventory remain -- our inventories are very low.
Let's put it that way.
The whole plant is not down.
It's just one circuit.
Gentlemen you have an additional follow-up question from P.J.
Juvekar of Citibank.
Chuck can you talk about your strategy with the paint stores? Are you going to invest significantly in this channel? Or is the focus going to be more on international markets? Well we think that the paint store channel for us has been stable in terms of store count.
We're at 400 stores.
We are waiting for signs of improvement in the market in order for us to add to that store count.
But we remain committed to the channel and to the business.
And I think there are good opportunities for us around the world.
Globally we're pursuing a growth in Architectural Coatings.
The Dyrup acquisition that we announced other initiatives in the emerging markets.
We're committed to the Architectural business and we think that it represents a good opportunity.
As do other end-use markets for coatings in the emerging regions but the store channel here we think it's going to be a solid contributor.
We'd like to see a little more market growth and we think if we're patient we will see improving trends in that channel and in the overall architectural market here in North America in the quarters and years to come.
Okay.
So you're not looking to add anything in the near term to the store channels? I think right now we're continuing to evaluate opportunities but I would say those would be incremental and tied to whether we see improving trends in given regions or markets.
But I would say over time we're going to add to our store count.
But in the near term we haven't seen enough strength that would lead us to say "Hey we need to continue to move up our store count " in what has been a relatively weak market.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the question-and-answer portion of today's conference.
I will now turn the presentation back to Chuck Bunch for his closing remarks.
Sir? Well I would just like to thank all of you for attending our second quarter 2011 conference call and Q&amp;A.
And we appreciate the dialogue and we're very pleased with our performance and the results.
And we look forward to talking with you in October when we announce our third quarter 2011 results.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you very much for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes your presentation and you may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 PPG Industries Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lacey and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Mr.
Vince Morales Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Lacey.
Good afternoon everybody.
This is Vince Morales Vice President of Investor Relations for PPG Industries.
Welcome to our third quarter 2011 financial teleconference.
Joining me on the call today from PPG are Chuck Bunch Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Navikas Senior Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
Our comments relate to the financial information we released today October 20 2011.
As a reminder to everyone based on our modified quarterly earnings call process approximately 1 hour ago we posted detailed commentary and accompanying presentation slides on our Investor Center at our website at ppg.com.
These slides are also available on the webcast site for this call.
We do not read these prepared remarks during the call however Chuck will share his perspective during the call on the company's results for the quarter and then we will move directly to Q&amp;A.
Both the prepared commentary and discussion during this call may contain forward-looking statements reflecting the company's view about future events and their potential effect on PPG's operating and financial performance.
These statements involve uncertainties and risks which may cause actual results to differ.
The company is under no obligation to provide subsequent updates to these forward-looking statements.
This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The company has provided in the appendix of the presentation materials which are available on our website reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
For additional information please refer to PPG's filings with the SEC.
Lastly and before we discuss the third quarter results I will remind everyone that PPG's Capital Markets Day will be December 5 in New York City.
We will provide a strategic and financial update for our businesses and also discuss our coatings technologies.
Please contact PPG's Investor Relations for additional details.
And now let me introduce PPG's Chairman and CEO Chuck Bunch.
Thank you Vince and welcome everyone.
Today we announced third quarter sales of $3.8 billion up 11% versus the third quarter of 2010.
Our third quarter earnings per share of $1.96 were a record for any quarter in the company's history and up 24% versus the prior year.
This represents 5 consecutive quarters in which we have eclipsed our prior quarterly earnings record including last quarter where our earnings were also up more than 20%.
This consistent improvement in performance especially in light of today's economic backdrop demonstrates our management's aggressive focus on operations and the continuing benefit of structural changes that we have made to the company the past few years including a lower cost base and expansion in emerging regions.
In addition these results reflect the continuing benefits of our disciplined deployment of our strong cash position.
Our third quarter sales improved by about $400 million versus the prior year.
Year-over-year volumes for the company were flat for the quarter with differing results by region and end-use market.
Demand in North America was up about 1% versus last year consistent with our second quarter volume change.
However these results included a large negative volume impact from several unplanned production outages in our Commodity Chemical business early in the quarter which reduced the North American percentage volume change for the company by a few hundred basis points.
Emerging region volume growth continued driven by higher industrial and automotive OEM activity levels.
These results were tempered by expected declines in shipbuilding activity as the lower production reflects a smaller marine original equipment order backlog.
Most other emerging region and market growth remained consistent with the prior quarter.
The higher emerging region results offset declines in European volumes principally due to lower activity levels in several consumer-oriented businesses including Optical products and Architectural Coatings.
Aiding our sales and record earnings performance was higher pricing in all 13 of our businesses led by our Commodity Chemical business.
This marks the sixth consecutive quarter where the company has delivered higher pricing reflecting our efforts to recover inflation we have already absorbed and counter flattening raw material inflation rates.
Earnings were also assisted by the benefit from higher global industry activity including improving global auto production along with continued strong performance in some of our top performing businesses such as Aerospace and Automotive Refinish as we continue to benefit from our leading technologies.
Lastly cash generation remains a key accountability and we have lowered our working capital as a percentage of sales versus last year's third quarter by over 100 basis points.
Our year-to-date cash from operations is up 10% versus 2010 driven by gains in the third quarter.
Also we have continued our legacy of returning cash to shareholders as dividends and share repurchases combined have totaled over $900 million year-to-date including $350 million this past quarter.
Looking ahead we anticipate current macro and regional economic trends to continue supported to date by October activity levels in most of our businesses.
The fourth quarter is traditionally our slowest quarter seasonally for several of our businesses and in general we anticipate normal seasonal fourth quarter patterns to occur.
Raw material inflation rates are flattening and we are in the process of implementing additional pricing in several businesses to counter the prior inflation impacts we have absorbed.
We ended the quarter with $1.3 billion in cash and intend to continue to deploy our cash with a focus on driving earnings growth.
Finally we are keeping a watchful eye on the global economy and are prepared to adapt to changing conditions.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Now operator would you please give instructions and open the phone lines for questions? [Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Chuck I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the European Optical business.
It seems like it was maybe a larger-than-normal erosion and even if we look back to the recession so is there something specific to healthcare spending? Or what caused that sort of anomalous decline? No we haven't -- there's been no overall change in healthcare remuneration systems in Europe.
It has been weaker however for us in this past quarter.
We have one new competitor entry in Europe in the German market principally.
This is Zeiss.
But overall we think that the impact in Europe for volume is minimal and we should be recovering we think over the coming few quarters our momentum in terms of positive volume.
Research Division</strong> And could you touch on chlor-alkali? It seems like the depth of chlor-alkali has been greatly exaggerated but there's still concern out there about new capacity and obviously flowing chlorine demand.
What's your crystal ball say for chlor-alkali in 2012? In 2012 Bob we're still optimistic for our chlor-alkali business.
We are seeing as we begin the fourth quarter lower seasonal demand.
Some of that is anticipated.
But we also have seen some weakness on the chlorine side a little lower export activity in the PBC chain a little lower activity in a number of our chemicals end-use markets like MDI TDI.
Pulp and paper however has maintained its momentum and we think that the offset of stronger pricing on the caustic side which we're seeing here in the fourth quarter and is being supported globally by what we see as price improvements in caustic soda globally we remain optimistic for our chlor-alkali business in 2012.
Research Division</strong> And my last one Chuck.
The Dyrup acquisition can you just sort of explain to us again the strategic rationale in getting bigger in Europe and/or wood coatings why that shouldn't be more daunting to hear about? What are the positive reasons to get into that business? Well we have what we think is a strong Architectural Coatings business in Europe today.
The market has been weaker over the last 2 years than we anticipated but we're trying to build on what we think are already strong positions for our Coatings businesses there including the Continental Western Europe even though the growth rates aren't I would say attractive here in the short term.
We think we're going to get excellent synergies position ourselves with what we think a great brand in the wood care market.
And I think this will allow us to improve our overall competitive position our offering in the market.
And even if the growth rates aren't exciting at this point we think overall with the attractive purchase price this is going to be an excellent acquisition for us.
And our next question will come from the line of Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Transitions Europe what percent of your Transition sales are in Europe? About 20% to 25% Frank.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And that's really the only area that you've seen the consumer slowdown is that correct? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right great.
And then on chlor-alkali obviously you gave us some details in terms of the capacity utilization impact to the unplanned outages and some volumes but you also mentioned that there were some added cost.
Could you give us a sense as to what was the financial impact of all the outages taken together in the quarter on chlor-alkali? Yes Frank this is Dave Navikas.
The higher maintenance cost associated with those outages was about $10 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
So potentially you guys could have posted something like $114 million of EBIT if everything had gone smoothly is that correct? Or it would've been higher than that given that you would have also had more products to sell? Frank the $114 million is a good number.
All right great.
And then Chuck you mentioned that you see raws moderating.
I was wondering if you could add a little more color to that.
Do you -- I mean it's not a secret that propylene prices have been cratering here of late and that obviously feeds into the acrylics chain.
At what point would you anticipate that you would see your raws actually -- instead of just moderating actually moving down? And does that suggest that you could see some margin expansion in your Coatings business? Well I think right now we're starting to see in a number of the raw materials some price declines.
And those have been primarily in the organic or petrochemical value chain.
We are encouraged by what we're seeing on the pricing for propylene and ethylene.
I think that will -- I think that foretells that we're going to see some further declines in those parts of our value chain.
What's been offsetting that has been the inorganic chain specifically pigments and TiO2.
Right now I think those 2 the inorganics and the organics are balancing each other off.
But we have seen some price declines now in the TiO2 market in China.
We've seen price decreases there.
The Western or developed market producers are still announcing price increases and attempting to get further price increases in TiO2 and that's the offset right now.
But I would say that we are encouraged over the nearer term that what's happening in Asia may also order for improved pricing in terms of the coatings manufacturers anyway in TiO2 and other pigments.
All right very very interesting on the inorganic side.
And then lastly obviously you did a good job buying your stock.
In the third quarter you mentioned that you're looking to target $250 million in Q4 in a combination of share buyback and M&amp;A.
Can you comment on the current M&amp;A environment? Obviously you're going to complete a deal early next year.
Should we expect that there's some more things teed up at PPG? We have the one other deal that we announced in Colombia Colpisa which has not closed yet and that will probably close also in the first quarter.
We are working on a number of deals in the pipeline but I would say it is unlikely that we will be able to close any of the deals that we are working on either the announced deals or the other ones that we're active on in the fourth quarter.
So therefore I would say that our shareholder value creation will come more from the share buybacks here in the fourth quarter.
And our next question will come from the line of P.J.
Juvekar with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> So can you talk to us about how much volumes are down in your stores versus DIY? You said they're down slightly.
Can you quantify that? Well I would say very low single digits.
So we're talking 1% to 2% here.
Research Division</strong> And in the DIY business have you seen any trading down by consumers while buying paints similar to I guess what your European competitor is saying today? Well what we saw on the DIY side is -- for us the most important event in the third quarter was the successful launch of our Olympic ONE product.
So we've been very pleased with what's happened there.
And I would tell you that that's not the lowest-priced product.
It is a very high value but mid-priced product in Lowe's and it's had excellent reception by the consumer.
So I would say that the consumers are still going to be value-oriented.
So they're going to look for the best product at the right value but they are not trading completely on price alone.
We've seen in other markets maybe a little more movement to lower-priced products.
But I would say here in North America that certainly hasn't been the case.
We've positioned we think Olympic ONE nicely in the middle of the price range and it's doing very well.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And just lastly you mentioned TiO2 prices declining in China.
Do you actually -- how much of your TiO2 is purchased in China? And how much of the U.S.
paint industry buy this TiO2 from China? Do you have a comment for PPG and the industry? Well what I would say P.J.
is that as the market tightened up over the last 18 months I would say the opportunity to purchase TiO2 from China either in the Chinese market or in our North American or European regions the delta in terms of pricing when you included shipping costs and the like probably wasn't as attractive.
We've talked about it on other call so that we were at one time it was a very attractive trade to bring that product in less so over certainly the first 2 quarters of this year.
But I think with the gap that you're seeing opening up now I think you're going to see more Chinese product available globally and I think you'll see more demand from the paint companies for the value that those products now in the current environment are offering.
And our next question will come from the line of Saul Ludwig please proceed with Northcoast Research.
In the quarter you have got $216 million of benefit from price.
What was your raw material cost hit? Meaning so we want to see what was the recovery or what percentage did you cover raw material costs? And then looking into the fourth quarter how would you see that gap playing out? Saul we recover between 85% and 90% of our raw materials in the quarter and we have more pricing coming in Q4 with this flattening inflation trend.
So we'd hope to narrow that even further.
Could you think you could be sort of a neutral in the fourth quarter Vince? We'll see how the quarter plays out.
We're still negotiating some pricing on the raw material side.
Okay.
And then Chuck you guys have done a fabulous job of building up your business in Asia and it's been very very successful.
And I'm sure with that you've built out a good infrastructure in terms of based costs.
We keep reading about slowing in Asia slowing in China.
You mentioned earlier that you would take action to mitigate that if it were to actually develop more severely.
What are some of the steps that you could take to do that? And do you see -- is what we're reading in the paper represented by what you guys see in your business in Asia? Well I would say first of all that the Asian markets for us are slowing but it is a moderation of a very high growth rate.
So we've been talking about growth rates or GDP growth of 12% to 15% in China as an example.
So I think sometimes now when we look at growth rates that may be now in the kind of 6% to 9% kind of range that people say "Well this is going to really require a lot of retrenchment." But for us one we don't see that moderation of growth rates in Asia triggering a let's say an aggressive cost response from our standpoint.
If it comes there the labor force the cost structure in Asia is very flexible so that typically we can react quickly.
It's not as costly a process as it is in Europe or here in North America.
So I would say that we are not overly concerned with one a moderation of the growth rates to the level that we've seen now.
And if it happens at least in Asia we think we'll be able to respond quickly.
I think what you see however in a market like Europe where there is a lot of concern especially with the sovereign debt crisis and will that spill over into some of the consumer markets in the rest of Europe and there it does restructuring actions or cost reductions in Europe in particular take a little longer to develop or more costly to implement and that's where I think we're being most vigilant right now in making sure that our businesses and the end-use markets for our products are staying up.
Typically for us the automotive market is one of the first places where we see weakness.
Historically that's when we saw it at the end of '08 and '09.
But right now the automotive market here and in Europe has stayed up.
We haven't seen any pronounced weaknesses but this is one where we are watching and I think we will react quickly in Europe when we see signs developing that this crisis is really affecting end-use markets.
Just a quickie.
What's the latest estimate for cap spending this year or next year? Saul this year 2% to 3% of sales.
We're running right now right at 2%.
But 2% to 3% of sales this year and 2.5% to 3.5% next year.
So that's $300 million more or less.
And our next question will come from the line of Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Chuck you talked about spending $250 million this quarter or redeploying that amount of cash principally on share repurchase.
What might we expect as we go forward into 2012? I know you've talked in the past that you really only need a cash balance about $800 million to -- is what you're comfortable with.
So just wondering if we can expect more or perhaps even accelerated redeployment next year above and beyond closing on the Dyrup acquisition.
Well I would say that actually we feel that we probably only need $300 million to $400 million in cash to operate the company now.
You have to have it in the right regions and we do have some seasonality in our cash flow.
So I would say that right now the 2 announcements that we have made that will probably close in the first quarter are the only firm announcements that we have.
So obviously if we don't develop an initial or additional prospects you're going to see similar levels of buyback activity for PPG as we move into 2012.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So basically you've got EBIT on this cash balance which of course will grow with free cash flow generation you've got almost $1 billion more cash to redeploy then.
Is that...
Yes.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a question on Architectural Coatings in the U.S.
and the scope for price increase.
I believe you've announced about 3 price increases totaling 15%.
It looks like you've got about 10% of that so far.
How much more do you need to restore gross margins in Architectural to where they might have been a year ago? And would you anticipate more pricing actions on the U.S.
architectural front? Well right now Don we haven't recaptured all of the impact of price increases and in architectural as you know that's been one of the hardest hit businesses or markets for us with the preponderance of TiO2 and the reliance on the propylene molecule.
So I would say that we would -- we are not at this point working on broad price increase announcements.
We are in a market that I think is becoming somewhat frustrated with the raw material situation both on the part of our customers and I think we have to be mindful of what we're doing with demand and actions by our competitors.
So at this point we are waiting to see what happens to the direction of the raw material increases and what's happening competitively in the marketplace.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And one final question just so you can clarify something on chlor-alkali.
The industry operating rate was about 86% in July August.
And since you were below that does this mean that the normal seasonal Q4 decline in volumes will be fairly muted this year or that you could even have flat volumes in chlor-alkali sequentially in Q4? Well I think what we saw from higher operating rates that we somewhat missed there in the third quarter I think we're going to have the same sort of seasonal drop-off for the industry as a whole.
And I think what happens from here till the end of the quarter is still somewhat in question.
The export activities if we can get some lower spot ethylene pricing for the industry we may get to see more activity over the course of the quarter.
But right now I think you're still going to see for the industry anyway a traditional seasonal drop off.
And for us I think it's just too early to tell.
Our next question will come from the line of John McNulty with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a few questions.
First with regard to pensions.
We've seen -- the market's been relatively soft the discount rates relatively low.
How should we think about your cash use going toward potentially firming up any underfunding in the pension? And then how should be thinking about the potential earnings hit for next year as well? Well you're correct John that with where interest rates are today and where the equity markets have been year-to-date we would be looking at some need for cash contribution in 2012.
I think you can take that into something in the range of $100 million $150 million at this point in time.
And certainly that would have some upward pressure on our pension expense in 2012 and we'll be working on finalizing those estimates as we get additional information between now and the end of the year.
John I'll remind you we expect to put in about $125 million into our pension plans in 2011 this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one follow-up question with regard to Chuck your comments on there's being a lot of frustration in the industry both from the -- I guess from your side as well as your customer side with regard to pricing it sounded like you may have been implying that there may have been some lapses in discipline in the industry.
Is that the case in terms of what you're seeing and how you have to react to maybe what your customer -- or what your competitors are doing? And then also can you give us any color as to whether you've seen really any demand destruction tied to some of the necessary price hikes or if it's still kind of relatively inelastic in terms of how we think about demand? Well I think the frustration level is -- traditionally in our industry we have had pricing that was more stable annual pricing or pricing for the paint season.
And I think this is how traditionally the industry operated with our customers.
And I think in this environment where we've had to go out multiple times to our customers across all end-use markets and say "We're sorry but there's so much cost inflation in our raw material chain that we're going to have to go out of step with our historical practices and ask for additional pricing kind of in-season or after they've set some of their annual pricing." So I think this is the frustration that many of us feel.
And our customers I think they're seeing in many markets that demand is still relatively weak volumes are low as we've been talking about.
And so there is I would say frustration on the part of the customer saying "Well wait if the market's so weak why are we getting additional pricing requests?" So I think that's the frustration that we feel and that our customers feel.
Obviously in some of the commodities that we've talked about on this call we're doing everything we can to improve our productivity to better utilize those products in our formulation so that we limit any increases in consumption for our products and we're working hard.
And now instead of working on a lot of new product developments or new technologies that will help our markets stimulate demand help our customers we're working on formulations that will just minimize the impact of some of these price increases on the raw material side.
So I think that's the frustration that I think -- that certainly I feel and that people in our company and I am assuming that others in the paint industry would feel as well.
Demand destruction hard to say at this point.
That's a longer-term issue but they are probably for any product in today's world including paints and coatings there are product substitutions and you can do things differently.
And we don't want to see our products obviously substituted in the marketplace or people trading down to lower-priced or cheaper products because that will reflect on the image and the value that we historically or typically create for our customers.
So I think that's the level of frustration that certainly we feel right now.
Research Division</strong> And if I can just ask one last question.
With regard to autos and industrial coatings can you give us some color as to how far out your visibility is there? Well traditionally it's been a market that has reacted to sharp downturns in the economy.
And certainly I think what we saw at this time 3 years ago we saw the impact of the recession and the credit crisis first in the automotive market especially here in North America.
Now right now what we're seeing is somewhat different in the sense that we're still as an industry recovering from the Japanese earthquake and tsunami.
We see a little out of traditional seasonal patterns here in North America with the improvement in production levels for the Japanese-based manufacturers.
Overall demand and sales have been good I think in part because the market was so weak 3 years ago.
And if you really get into some of the discussion about what happened in the leasing market when some of the financing dried up there is now a little more strength than you would assume with the overall let's say dampened demand overall in the consumer economy.
The car market here in North America is pretty good.
And in China it's still been good.
Even though the sales levels have come down it's still solid.
And in Europe volumes have been relatively flat but we have not seen any declines.
So I think overall we're encouraged by what we've seen in the automotive market.
But it is typically one that will react if things get -- if the consumer sentiment turns negative.
So we're very watchful here.
But right now in the near term we're encouraged.
We do get some visibility and typically if they do start cutting back on production levels they don't do it immediately next week.
It will be at the time of a traditional shutdown.
But you usually have a couple of months to see that and you'll see probably the impact before that in sales levels and the like.
And our next question will come from the line of Ivan Marcuse with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> The first question I have is on your chlor-alkali.
Do you have any planned shutdowns or costs for the fourth quarter? And how does that compare to the fourth quarter last year? We do have -- typically in any given quarter we do have outages scheduled.
We have one scheduled here in the fourth quarter so that will have an impact.
But that is something that normally we do have.
We will have normally scheduled outages.
We don't try to focus them in the summertime or at any particular season.
So we'll have something.
But we had something -- I'm trying to remember if we had something in the fourth quarter last year but there is one outage scheduled here in the fourth quarter for our chlor-alkali business.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And my last question is on the DIY.
Do you think that it was more of an industry shift you saw the DIY as an industry as a whole increase through on a year-over-year basis? Or do you think that your product ONE and your other products are just -- it's more of a function of you gaining share? I would say that we've reached a point in the housing market and in the home improvement that is we have reached stability.
I don't think things are going to get -- go dramatically or any lower from this point.
But it's too early for me to say that there's any strength building.
We're obviously pleased and we've benefited from the launch of Olympic ONE.
So I would say it's just a little too early for me to see whether this is just a share gain on our part or there's broader trends that DIY is going to pick up across the construction industry.
And our next question will come from the line of David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Chuck just on TiO2.
Do you expect the TiO2 price to be up in 2012 versus 2011? And if yes by how much? I don't know the answer to that David.
Obviously we've absorbed price increases in 2010 and 2011 and we're discussing how things are going to end here in 2011.
I would tell you if the current economic situation continues the demand side may not be there to support further increases and with the things that we're seeing in Asia where there's some easing off or actually their prices are going down.
I'm let's say hopeful that TiO2 prices stabilize.
But I can't speculate on whether or not prices will be higher or not next year.
Research Division</strong> And Chuck on your efforts to reduce TiO2 consumption whether your own programs or the Dow Polymers will there be material impacts in 2012? Or is it more like 2013 to begin to cut into how much TiO2 you guys do use? Well we've been working on this now for the better part of a year since this price trend started.
And I think I've been very reluctant to say that it was going to have any meaningful impact this year and maybe not initially next year.
But I think our programs are developing.
We're seeing elsewhere you talked about some of the opaque polymers that are being developed.
So I would say that by this time next year we should start seeing some impact in terms of bending that demand curve.
Some of that is going to depend also on how overall end-use market demand and new capacity that may come on whether it's in Asia whether it's sulfate or chloride but we think that there will be -- we'll start to see some improvement in terms of the supply.
Research Division</strong> And Chuck just lastly as propylene prices drop do you think you'll have to give back any pricing to your customers either next year or the year thereafter? It depends on where things develop.
Obviously we're not -- we buy very little propylene the actual propylene molecule we do for some of our resins.
Most of it we see through the acrylic chain.
But if we see dramatic price decreases we have obviously not even caught up as we've been discussing with all the raw material inflation that we've experienced over the last 1.5 years.
So I think we would want to at least be in a position where we've recovered that inflation before we ever got into a discussion about where prices needed to go with our customers after that.
And our next question will come from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Chuck would you comment on the volumes that you're seeing in Aerospace Coatings as well as your outlook there especially on the OEM side now that the Dreamliners are rolling out? Yes volumes we're encouraged overall by what's happening Kevin.
We're looking now for mid-single digit kind of volume increases overall across all our product lines as we go into the end of this year or into 2012 so I'm really encouraged by -- not every segment of Aerospace is moving up sharply.
Military has flattened out.
General aviation I think on the whole is positive.
But where we're really seeing strength is in the new products and our new wins in programs like the 787.
So I would say mid-single digits is the right kind of volume increase that we'd be looking at.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then switching gears to Protective &amp; Marine Coatings Chuck you referenced lower OEM volumes related to depressed shipbuilding activity in Asia.
What does that trajectory look like over the next year or so? And when might we expect volumes to turn positive there? We're not looking for an upturn in 2012.
So I would say that if we have continued global economic recovery even at modest levels we would look to see improvement in 2013.
But right now in 2012 we're not looking for improvement in the OEM Marine side of the equation.
The Protective side which is still 1/2 of our business we think has still continued opportunities.
But certainly the OEM Marine activity is going to be down next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally if I may what are your updated thoughts on potential timing of an asbestos settlement? Well at this point we still have -- there are further hearings with the bankruptcy judge.
We had several this summer based on some of her direction over the first half of this year.
We have another hearing scheduled towards the end of the year.
So I would say that at this point any actual settlement or payment is moved into 2012 certainly and probably not in the early part of 2012.
And our next question will come from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn with Longbow Research.
A lot of my questions have been answered but I just want to follow up on a couple of things.
First of all the first half of the year you saw some positive growth albeit at lower single-digit levels in volumes in Europe and then you've seen a decline in European paint business in the third quarter.
Kind of what's the driver behind this inflection? And as you look out a couple of quarters do you continue to see or expect to see European markets shrinking in terms of demand? Well for us Dmitry the weakest market in Europe has been the U.K.
in both an overall market.
We're there in both kind of the professional or trade segment as well as DIY.
So the overall market in the U.K.
for the construction industry has been quite weak.
So I think that's been one of the reasons why volume has declined.
We also lost one of our DIY customers and we commented on that took a charge last quarter.
This was Focus.
And so that's impacted our volumes in the second quarter as well as here in the third quarter.
And I would say that the -- we're not exposed or very little exposure to let's call them the Mediterranean markets that have been quite weak.
So our volume has been stable but not growing in the Continental European market or even Eastern Europe.
So right now based on what we're seeing is that we're not looking for any volume growth.
Now whether or not we're going to see any additional volume declines the market there in Europe has been fairly stable.
And so I would say that because it is a market that's not driven by new home construction that it is more a maintenance and repair market we're looking for stability.
Now that may mean that we see a couple of percentage points of decline and we're not certainly anticipating growth at least in what we're seeing in terms of the economic outlook in Europe.
That's helpful Chuck.
Just one clarification on Europe.
In your comments and your prepared remarks and the press release did I understand you correctly that you expect foreign exchange to be a negative in European paints business in the fourth quarter? In other words...
Dmitry right now it will be down versus Q3.
Oh down versus Q3.
So not year-over-year? Okay.
Yes too early to make that call.
But versus Q3 based on current rates our Q3 conversion rate was 1.42.
Q4 would be lower than that.
Got it okay.
So this was just a sequential comment not a year-over-year comment? Correct.
Okay.
A question on Glass.
I mean you guys delivered 4 good quarters in a row of kind of double-digit operating margins in that business and then they slipped back down to about a little bit over 8% in the September quarter.
Was that entirely due to kind of volume declines and maintenance shutdowns that you have and we should expect you to return to double-digit operating profitability? Or has something changed in the industry either from a demand side or the cost side where we should be looking at third quarter run rate as more typical? Well what you had in the third quarter in the glass industry or in this case in fiberglass in particular we had what we call cold repairs or furnace repairs that we have to periodically take down the furnaces.
We incur additional maintenance costs as well as loss production.
So we had 2 of those in the third quarter that had more of an impact.
So I would expect that we would improve seasonally in the fourth quarter versus what we saw seasonally in the third quarter of 2011.
But I would say overall the volumes are probably not quite as strong either in the fiberglass market and more or less stable at a low level in the flat glass market.
So I would say we're not going to -- we don't expect any volume improvements.
We'll have better costs but that necessarily won't -- that will mean that things are going to fall somewhere between what we have seasonally in the fourth quarter and some of the weakness that you saw in the third quarter if that's clear.
Yes that is Chuck.
And then final question.
On SG&amp;A just looking at the ramp-up in SG&amp;A costs it looks like it's going to be about 8% higher year-over-year in 2011 versus 2012 which is not as high as your revenue growth which looks like it's going to be about 12%.
But most of that or at least half of that is pricing.
So it looks like if you exclude kind of pricing and foreign exchange that your SG&amp;A is growing significantly faster than your revenue.
Is that in building out some kind of investing ahead of the market recoveries in some markets? Or maybe becoming a little bit less restrictive as far as travel or show attendance or anything like that? Or kind of what's behind the faster ramp-up in SG&amp;A costs almost back to 2008 levels? Well Dmitry some of that increase would be in some areas like some brand building in the Architectural business.
So some of that would be ahead of anticipated volume improvements in the future.
But otherwise as we would look at it we've been working hard to keep the rate of growth of the overhead cost in line with the volume improvements that we have seen.
And so where we have seen some of that growth and overhead cost in the third quarter were in those businesses where we've also seen some recovery in their volumes as well.
I'll remind you Dmitry that those expenses are impacted by currency translation as well.
Year-over-year they're up 6% or 8% just from translation perspective for those non-U.S.
expenses.
Oh so they're up more than the 4% foreign exchange impact you're seeing in your sales then? I'm sorry it should be 4%.
I misstated.
And our next question will come from the line of Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Question on Chinese TiO2.
Obviously it's becoming more attractive.
Are there any issues in terms of requalification or specifications if you are going to use more of it? And what type of issues would you have in terms of your customers taking product that might have Chinese TiO2 versus TiO2 sourced in North America? Well in any of our formulations for our end-use markets we will not introduce new suppliers or new types of raw materials without thorough testing.
And so in these cases we have been working for the past several years across a broad array of suppliers not only in TiO2 but in a lot of commodities in Asia because we've been experienced up until the last quarter or so inflation across the board.
So if we were to use more TiO2 from the non-Western sources most of this is sulfate technology that requires differences in processing qualification testing.
So that's the reasons why these things are not -- from month-to-month you can't change the suppliers to these new products new technologies new suppliers.
So that's why you haven't seen as much substitution short term in the industry.
Plus when things tightened up in the first half there wasn't a financial incentive to utilize these products more broadly.
Now I think you're going to -- that's opened up the opportunity but it will still take some time in our formulations in processing in working with the customers where we do need broader discussions or approvals to change raw materials.
So I think you'll see some of that coming because we've been working on it for a while but it is not instantaneous.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
On the M&amp;A a lot of the public valuations have certainly come down.
We don't know whether private valuations have come down.
Are you seeing anything that's particularly more attractive either in particular end markets or particular regions that you weren't seeing maybe 6 months ago? Not necessarily.
I would say that as we've discussed a lot of the valuations in Asia have been quite high and that's limited some of the acquisition activity certainly on our part.
And I don't think you've seen as much as historically in the industry in the emerging regions.
Now we're hopeful that if the growth rates do moderate or if some of the opportunities for these smaller companies to go to the IPO or secondary exchanges at high valuations we hope that this will open things up and we'll have more attractive valuations in these markets.
But right now I would say we haven't seen a lot of acquisition activity in the industry.
And we didn't see it as much in '08 and '09 either because the industry actually held up fairly well.
So it's unclear to me whether these moderating growth rates will cause a lot more M&amp;A activity.
I think you just have to work all of the possibilities and the companies and find situations where the owners feel that their longer-term are better off in part of a bigger company than going independently.
But right now haven't seen a big upswing in opportunities or a big change in valuations.
And our next question will come from the line of John Roberts with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Chuck I think you had a weak April in North American architectural paint and then actually had up volumes in May and June and started this quarter with up volumes.
Did it tail off late in the quarter so that you ended up more flat for the full quarter? Well I think we -- actually we had -- we didn't have a strong start to the third quarter either.
We had some -- there were some -- at least here in North America weather patterns were a little bit unusual.
There has been some inventory rebalancing on the part of a number of the channels.
And so I would say that the volume was pretty choppy there in the third quarter and we didn't start off great.
I didn't think we'd finish great but it probably wasn't as weak as what we saw in April which on a one-month basis was certainly on a year-over-year seasonal basis was our weakest month.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And I got a little confused about the price cost discussion earlier.
Do you need to actually announce more price to get caught up? Or do you need to just realize what's been announced to get you caught up? Well we have not caught up on -- we have not offset the impact of raw material inflation with our pricing.
Now we're working on productivity costs all these other things.
So we're not there yet.
But I express that at this point we're not broadly having initiatives here in the marketplace on pricing until we see the direction of the economy and have further discussions with our customers.
And our next question will come from the line of Gregg Goodnight with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I noticed your tax rate continues to run below historic levels.
Is this the new normal? Can you give us some updated guidance for 2011 and perhaps a peek at 2012? Well yes.
It is down 1% from the tax rate in 2010.
We've been holding constant as we continue to reestimate that rate for 2011.
And I would say I feel pretty good about that rate for this year.
Certainly that is impacted by the regional mix of our earnings.
And at this stage as we look out into 2012 I think something in that 26% to 28% kind of range is still a reasonable estimate.
Research Division</strong> A question.
You've prepaid some of next year's debt.
I noticed that there's like a $600 million tranche of 2013 debt.
Is that -- would there be any penalty on prepaying that? Would you be disposed to prepaying that if you could? Or do you think your net debt to total capital is about where you want it? There would be a penalty associated with prepaying that.
And at this time we're comfortable with leaving that ride and dealing with that as it comes due in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Last question if I could.
One of your competitors reported and I noticed their margins for European architectural were down a bit more significantly than yours were on a year-over-year basis.
So does a potential explanation of that pop out to you guys? Are you more aggressive in Europe on pricing? Or is there something else I might be missing? Probably Gregg the thing I would look at is geographic mix is different for all the competitors we have in Europe.
That would probably be the first place I'd look.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that makes a lot of sense.
In fact their margins are a little bit higher on an absolute basis so that fits.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our question-and-answer portion for today's call.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Vince Morales for any closing remarks.
Just want to thank everybody for their interest again on our third quarter call and just remind everybody our Capital Markets Day is again December 5.
Please contact me with any interest for that date.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 PPG Industries Inc.
Conference Call.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] Today’s conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Vince Morales Vice President Investor Relations.
Thank you Regina.
This is Vince Morales Vice President of Investor Relations for PPG Industries.
Welcome to PPG's Fourth Quarter 2011 Financial Teleconference.
Joining me on the call today from PPG is Chuck Bunch Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; Dave Navikas Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
Our comments relate to the financial information released on Thursday January 19 2012.
As a reminder to everyone based on our modified quarterly earnings call process about 1 hour ago we posted detailed commentary and the accompanying presentation slides on our Investor Center at ppg.com.
The slides are also available on the webcast site for this call.
We don't read those prepared remarks during the call.
However during the call Chuck will make some opening comments reviewing the company's results and then we will move directly to Q&amp;A.
Both the prepared commentary and discussion during the call may contain forward-looking statements reflecting the company's current view about future events and their potential effect on PPG's operating and financial performance.
These statements involve uncertainties and risks which may cause actual results to differ.
The company is under no obligation to provide subsequent updates to these forward-looking statements.
This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The company has provided in the appendix of the presentation materials which are available on the website reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
For additional information please refer to our filings with the SEC.
Now let me introduce PPG's Chairman and CEO Chuck Bunch.
Thank you Vince and welcome everyone.
Today we announced fourth quarter 2011 sales of $3.5 billion up 4% versus the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our fourth quarter earnings per share of $1.39 established a new fourth quarter record for the company and was achieved despite moderating global growth rates during the quarter.
We delivered record earnings per share of $6.87 in 2011 with new records established each quarter despite persistent raw material inflation uneven economic conditions globally and continued anemic construction activity in developed regions.
Our continued record financial performance reflects strong execution by our global businesses aggressive cost management and our amplified deployment of cash.
Also our end-use market and geographic diversity remained an important benefit during the year.
During the fourth quarter overall sales volumes were flat as some customers curtailed inventory and remained cautious with their ordering patterns.
This was most evident in our Commodity Chemicals segment where volumes declined 3% and also in Europe where we experienced a 1% volume drop.
Emerging region volume growth continued but was modest and tempered by lower Marine and Architectural Coatings volumes along with the negative impacts resulting from the Thailand flooding which reduced our Optical Products activity levels.
We continued to benefit from improving global demand in Aerospace Automotive OEM and several general industrial markets and we supplemented this growth with PPG market share gains.
Also aiding our sales was higher pricing with improvements in each business segment marking the seventh consecutive quarter where the company has delivered higher pricing.
The higher pricing offset raw material cost inflation as inflation rates stabilized during the quarter.
We are implementing further pricing in 2012 to offset inflation we absorbed in 2011.
Lastly cash generation remained strong and was about $1.4 billion for the full year up nearly 10%.
Throughout the year we deployed our cash with a focus on earnings accretion and continuing our heritage of returning cash to shareholders.
We purchased 2.7 million shares of stock in the fourth quarter and 10.2 million shares during the year.
We also raised our dividend marking 40 consecutive years of annual dividend increases.
In total dividend and share repurchases equaled $1.2 billion or 85% of the cash we generated from operations.
We ended the year with about $1.5 billion in cash and short-term investments.
Looking ahead we anticipate first quarter 2012 growth to remain uneven by region and vary by industry similar to the fourth quarter of 2011.
We expect Europe to remain the most challenging region.
We anticipate moderate strengthening in the U.S.
economic recovery supported by an enhanced global cost position in the industrial sector due to lower natural gas prices.
Aggregate emerging region growth rates are expected to remain high compared to developed regions but more moderate and erratic that they have been in the past.
As a result we will be very proactive in managing our businesses as we deal with these uncertain market conditions.
Also we intend to continue to prudently deploy our strong cash position towards earnings accretion and rewarding shareholders and are targeting to end 2012 with a cash balance below $1 billion.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Now operator would you please give instructions and open the phone lines for questions? [Operator Instructions] And your first question today comes from the line of Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Walker on for Laurence.
I guess in terms of -- just kind of get your thoughts between automotive and construction end markets I guess which do you expect to see a larger increase in volumes just kind in order trends in Q1 and kind of what you've seen so far? Well we see good momentum in the Automotive OEM markets around the world with the exception of Europe.
So we're looking forward to a -- good growth rates continuing in North America and Asia in particular.
Construction activity however I think there's some early signs in North America but still I would say modest growth as we start up here in 2012.
And Europe we finished on what I would say would be a very modest growth rate.
We're all concerned with the macroeconomic environment in Europe.
Right now we haven't seen any significant downturns but we do not expect Europe to be strong in the construction markets nor do we think they're going to be particularly strong in Automotive OEM.
That Automotive OEM business will be stronger in regions outside of Europe.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if you could update us on kind of consolidation pipeline kind of and do you expect to use a larger portion of cash in 2012 for M&amp;A than you did in 2011? You said consolidation pipeline.
You meant acquisition pipeline? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Correct.
We closed this month on 2 acquisitions that we have previously announced that was Dyrup in Europe Architectural and Colpisa which is a Colombian South America Automotive OEM and refinish coatings company.
So we are actively pursuing a number of small- to medium-sized bolt-on acquisitions.
The pipeline we think is solid.
But we have to make further progress to bring them along to closure here in 2012.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay thanks.
And then just kind of overall in terms of the chlor-alkali kind of outlook in Q1.
And then just if you can touch on sort of whether you see further risk there that pricing and costs it won't keep up with the price declines in chlorine? And whether you think that the restocking will come or in Q2 versus Q1 in terms of just more of a general industrial -- in terms of your general industrial outlook going forward? Well why don't we answer your -- we'll answer the chlor-alkali question and then we'll open it up to some of the other questioners.
But in chlor-alkali we expect a seasonal upturn here in the first quarter from what were some lower operating rates in the fourth quarter.
We do expect price increases to move the average cost of pricing up in the first quarter.
Although as you commented chlorine prices remain weak but overall we think it'll be slight positive for the first quarter.
So I think we're looking forward to some return to more typical seasonal patterns here in the first quarter.
And obviously we're watching the natural gas markets which are right now encouraging for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Chuck you talked about pushing through price increases because of the inflation that you faced in 2011.
Can you talk about starting from January 1 how you see that price versus raw material balance playing out? If you say raws are kind of in balance right now it would suggest that you should see some margin improvement there.
Can you talk a little bit about that? Right.
We've been chasing let's say the raw material inflation really for about the last 18 months or so.
And that continued through 2011 but started to moderate in the second half of the year and the fourth quarter Frank with the exception as we've talked about in the past of the TiO2 pricing.
So overall we think here as we went into the latter half of 2011 we have a moderating inflation outlook and we're still catching up in terms of raw -- or pricing for our product.
So we think that we still have some catch-up to do.
We didn't fully offset inflation from raw materials in our Coatings businesses and we are trying to now complete that catch-up process because we really haven't completely offset those inflationary impacts.
And so I think there is an opportunity for us if we continue to see this moderating trend in raw materials to show some margin improvement in Coatings as we go through the year.
Some of that will also depend on volumes but if we continue to see overall economic growth we think that will aid the margin improvement opportunities.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right great.
And speaking of TiO2 it was just over a month ago I guess that you talked about your ability to take 46% of TiO2 out in 2012.
Now that we're 1 month further along do your R&amp;D people still feel confident in that regard? Yes they still feel -- we have a -- this is not a challenge that we threw out lightly to our organization.
We have all of the goals and objectives metrics by function by business unit and we still feel that's an appropriate target level for us in our formulations and it's still early in the year but we are tracking it.
And we feel that we will hit those targets.
Next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> This is Aleks Yefremov for Kevin.
Chuck what is your outlook overall for your raw material costs in the Coatings business given higher TiO2 and lower petrochemical-based raw materials? We think that the overall outlook is flat.
We think that what we've seen in terms of the declines in the organic side of the raw material basket will offset what appears to be some continued increases on the TiO2 side especially here in -- among the Western chloride producers.
Research Division</strong> And then moving to Architectural Coatings.
In your prepared remarks you mentioned that volumes in Asia were weaker.
Do you think this is a function of sort of where you are in China geographically? Some sort of a share shift mix share shift or this is a sign of sort of cyclical problems in the Chinese construction market that might persist? Well we think overall that the Chinese construction growth will be moderating and we've seen that here in the latter half of 2011.
We think that will continue at least here in the near term in 2012.
We have a relatively small business in Architectural in China.
We are focused more in the Eastern half of the country where growth rates are probably even more modest.
More of the growth has been in the second- and third-tier cities and in the West.
But I do think that there is a moderation of growth rates in the construction industry in China and certainly we felt that effect here in the latter half of 2011 in our business.
Research Division</strong> And a final question if I may on transitions and the rollout of Vantage (sic) [HomeVantage].
With increased sales cost do you think you can still increase margins year-over-year in 2012 or hold them flat or down? Well for us the Vantage product launch which for those of you who aren't familiar this is our clear-to-polarized new-to-the-world technology.
This will be the first time you've ever seen a product launch that will darken and darken to a polarized state in -- and so we're very excited about it.
But it is at this point a rather limited launch.
Limited geographically limited by channel.
We are quite excited about it but I would say overall even though the margins here will be very attractive for us we don't think that we'll have overall an effect that would lift up our margins more than what you've seen just because of the -- at this point it represents a relatively smaller volume for our Transitions business.
Your next question comes from the line of Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Chuck 2 questions.
One is on the anticipated level of share repurchase in 2012.
Do you think it'll be as large as last year or do you have a specific amount targeted at this time? We talked at our Investor Day in December we had close to $1 billion in share repurchases in 2011.
Our target for this year I would put in -- more in the range of $250 million to $500 million.
That would be what I would project.
Obviously it depends on successfully finding additional uses of cash for bolt-on acquisitions.
But I would expect that we're going to be aggressive with the share repurchases but not quite at the targeted -- at this point targeting that level from 2011.
So little -- half of that rate would be I think a good Benchmark.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And a follow-up on chlor-alkali.
What was your all-in natural gas acquisition cost in calendar 2011 including the hedge you had I think you had 12% of your needs hedged at about $7.25? It all in was around – it was a little under $5.
And so this represents I think an opportunity as we've -- here in the first quarter of 2012 will be the last of those earlier kind of pre-shale gas hedges.
So we were under a little under all-in costs of $5 and obviously we're going to start out in 2012 here in the first quarter below $4.
We did put some additional hedges on but only over the last few months at relatively modest level.
So it does represent a nice opportunity for us especially with further reductions we've seen over the last week to 10 days in the market.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Chuck you made some comments in the notes here about the refinished demand suffering from some of the inventory management.
And I guess I was a little bit surprised I didn't think that particular customer segment was as sensitive to those inventory and working capital adjustments nor was the pricing volatile enough where they might be trying to gain some advantage in buying later.
So am I wrong and that does tend to be a much more volatile purchasing decision there? Or what happened in the refinished market? I think we -- typically it's not as volatile.
We saw some inventory management.
If you go back over the last few years there were inventory reductions certainly as we went into the recession in 2009 more so than we had typically seen.
And I would say here in the fourth quarter there was probably some -- if you look at some of the markets in Europe as an example or even in some markets in Asia where there's some economic uncertainty I think the distributors and the overall customer base were somewhat cautious I would say in terms of ordering patterns.
So I wouldn't think it's anything -- a noticeable trend but it is something we felt we needed to comment on.
Research Division</strong> And is there something structurally different in the European markets that in a weaker environment DIY would go down instead of going up as it's done in the U.S.
or was it just the jarring economic anxiety there that stifled demand? Well I think in Europe you have also some customer issues.
And I think the big retailers are also being quite conservative about inventory levels and their outlook especially the ones in the U.K.
I think we saw earlier this week I think it was Asda in the U.K.
or Tesco and some of the home improvement chains.
I think they have been somewhat concerned about the economic environment in the U.K.
and been I think quite cautious of inventory levels.
But I wouldn't say it's a pronounced trend difference between here and the U.S.
at this point.
It's still a little too early to tell Bob.
Your next question comes from the line of Saul Ludwig with Northcoast.
How much did FX help you in 2011? And what type of headwind are you at least thinking about as you put your 2012 plan together? Saul it's Vince.
On the sales line it was -- we provide that each quarter as you know in our distributed slides.
But it was up around let's say $400 million year-over-year on the sales line.
On the earnings line we typically drop say 7% to 10% of that to the bottom line.
Okay.
So call it about $30 million.
Now does that become a headwind this year? We're not currency traders we'll leave that up to you.
But based on today's rate it's going to be a headwind.
We -- primarily the rate we're talking about is the euro.
Right right right.
Okay.
In the U.S.
you commented that your Architectural volume was flat which I guess it was pretty decent.
Did the flat volume and price cost give you better earnings or lower earnings in that segment of the Architectural business? North America and Architectural earnings were slightly lower in the fourth quarter on flat volumes so.
Okay.
And then when you think about the dividend and your dividend payout policies it's been pretty consistent for a lot of years now.
With the sharp increase that you have in earnings is the dividend going to move more commensurate with the earnings growth or will the modest rate of dividend growth likely to continue and thus be a lower percentage of your earnings? Well I think what you've seen us do Saul over the past couple of cycles is we've actually reduced the amount of time between dividend increases.
So I think the last 3 increases were either 6 or 9 months.
So we've been trying to keep in lockstep with the earnings accretion.
I was asking about the payout ratio.
Well I think we're committed to increasing the dividend and to be in line with what we think is our -- we're already positioned at the high end of our peer group in terms of overall yield dividend increases and payout ratio.
Obviously our cash flow has improved over the last few years as we've continued to move the portfolio.
So our view is that we're going to continue to I think be consistent with the dividend increase the dividend and increase it commensurate with overall earnings growth and cash flow.
So if this is sustainable as we feel it is you'll see us continue to increase that dividend and maybe at a rate that's higher than we've seen over let's say kind of coming out of this recessionary period where we did try to be a little more conservative.
And my final question Chuck.
As you look at the stable of plants that you have around the world are you kind of finished with the restructuring and -- or is there going to be any further need for restructuring activity? And if so how should we think about the cost of that as we put our model together for 2012? As we look at 2012 it's obvious from our comments and how we saw the end of the year playing out that we have more concern over the course of the European recovery and we have made recently a couple of acquisitions.
So we're going to be reviewing here as we go into the first quarter what we think we're going to need going forward.
Are there any synergies especially in Europe with the acquisition that we've made and our overall ray of facilities across our businesses.
With some I would say some additional focus on Europe if in fact growth trends or some of the concerns that have been talked about externally play out and we're dealing with a low or 0 or potentially negative growth in Europe.
Next question comes from the line of David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Jim Sheehan in for Dave.
Chuck just wondering about do you have any update on the situation in Thailand as far as when you think some of your suppliers will be up and running again? I know that you didn't have a lot of clarity on that back at the Investor Day.
Right now our operations are in good shape both on the Optical Materials side as well as Transitions.
Some of our customers there were -- or are a little slower in getting up to speed.
But we think now that there’s been good recovery across the optical industry in Thailand -- so if there are some lingering effects here in the first quarter we think they're going to be minimal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as far as caustic availability is concerned I know that that's an issue in the fourth quarter.
How much longer will caustic availability be an issue and where do you think operating rates will play out in Q1? Well caustic availability is a concern right now because of where the industry finished or operated in the fourth quarter.
So you had lower operating rates very low caustic inventories.
Now things are tight and that's why I think I commented that the pricing for caustic is moving up in the first quarter.
So I think we're going to see higher operating rates for the industry and that's a seasonal factor that may alleviate some of what's obviously now a tougher supply-demand situation.
But if we can get the operating rates to come up and stay here in the first quarter I think we'll be in as an industry in pretty good shape.
You still have this Japanese DCM planned outage that is affecting caustic supply globally.
So there’s a few other short-term effects that are I think serving to keep the market tight.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just with Architectural Coatings volumes declining a couple percent in the quarter and volumes seeming to be weak across the board on a regional basis.
Did you see any substantial inventory build of TiO2 in the quarter? I can't really comment on what was happening with TiO2 inventories.
I think I've commented in the past that probably many customers in Coatings or elsewhere were probably keeping inventory levels higher because of concerns over price initiatives from the producers.
So at this point I'm not aware of certainly any shortages or any supply concerns in TiO2.
But overall inventory levels I really don't have any basis to give an opinion.
Next question comes from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn with Longbow Research.
A couple of questions.
First of all the decline in operating margins in the Performance Coatings business I mean you've been running at 15% 16% pretty much for the past 6 7 quarters and now we're down to just about just a shade over 12%.
Was that just a mix issue or were there some onetime costs that have flown through the quarter that impacted the profitability of Performance Coatings? Well I think we indicated in our notes we had -- there are 4 businesses in that segment 2 of them performed well; Aerospace being one of them extremely well.
Refinish had a solid quarter.
Protective &amp; Marine Coatings had a weaker quarter and again that was focused on the Marine side of the business.
And the Marine business in Asia this is China and Korea volumes were down on the OEM build side of the Marine sector.
Price did not keep pace with inflation in that business.
And in the Marine segment we have a slightly different raw material basket.
We also include some metals that go into Marine OEM Coatings notably zinc and copper.
So they had a higher run-up during the year.
We were still working off higher-cost inventories in that business and we had same activity in Marine.
So that was one of the business units that had lower earnings the other one was in Architectural.
Now within Performance Coatings we have the Americas and Asia/Pacific together in the Performance Coatings segment.
So the European Architectural is in its own separate reporting segment.
And there in the Americas and Asia/Pacific Architectural business we had lower earnings.
This was I mentioned slightly lower in North America but lower in the smaller business in South America in Brazil and Chile.
Again primarily price not keeping up with inflation.
And in Asia/Pacific similar challenges.
I commented earlier on the China Architectural so that had lower earnings; again price not keeping up with inflation.
And the volumes moderating in Australia similar story price and inflation.
TiO2 is more important in these Architectural businesses.
So there is let's say more inflationary pressure there.
So if you have markets where the price initiatives aren't keeping up with what's been happening in TiO2 in particular you're going to see some margin deterioration.
So that's where I would focus your attention in terms of the Performance Coatings segment.
Got it.
That's very helpful Chuck.
You also in your prepared remarks said something intriguing that I want to follow up on.
When you're talking about growing in some select segments or seeing good growth in some select segments of Industrial Coatings business can you give us a little bit more detail on what those segments are what's driving them and what the outlook for 2012 is? There are some good segments in the Industrial or General Industrial business outside of Automotive OEM and 2 examples would be Heavy-Duty Equipment.
So you've seen some of the results of some of the big players that are out in ag and construction equipment.
These guys are I think are booming in some respects and so that Heavy-Duty Equipment segment is a very attractive one.
Consumer Electronics as well.
Even if Consumer Electronics overall in the second half as an end-use market was maybe -- the growth rates weren't as attractive.
We're seeing increased paint and Coatings usage for a number of these devices more devices being painted color and design more important.
So that would be another example of an end-use market in Industrial or General Industrial that's growing in addition to Automotive OEM.
Okay that's very helpful color.
And then just a couple of bookkeeping questions.
Your Commodity Chemicals business I understand that you sell a lot of your chlorine as not chlorine but some sort of a -- this or another.
Can you give us a rough idea of how much of your chlorine business if you will is sold as non-chlorine? Dmitry this is Vince.
That's going to fluctuate based on what's happening in the virgin chlorine market itself.
For 2011 what was it? I'll have to get back to you on the number.
I don't have it at hand.
But I would consider it just – chlorine’s just a pass-through to those derivatives.
Right right I understand that.
But my point is that you're not really shipping chlorine in a lot of cases.
So I just wanted to understand what the percentage of the non-chlorine business was.
So that's fine.
We can take it offline.
And then the last question.
What kind of a tax rate should we be using for 2012? It's been coming down pretty significantly every year.
Should we be looking at neighborhood of 25% or something lower than that? Yes Dmitry this is Dave Navikas.
The 25% rate that we achieved in 2011 would be the rate we're looking to maintain in 2012.
Your next question is from the line of Ivan Marcuse with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just have a couple of them real quick.
On Optical businesses will you see some pent-up volume do you think in the first quarter from the orders and shipments that got delayed from the fourth quarter? Or do you expect it to just get back to more of a normalized type of business level? I would say it's still early to tell.
I would say that we're only 2 weeks into this.
So I would say at this point we're not seeing any negative signs.
So I would say at normal activity levels maybe a little bit higher as there's a little catch-up from some lower inventory levels and customer kind of little bit of de-stocking there in the fourth quarter also tied to the Thailand floods.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I think I missed it earlier in the call your estimate [ph] on your 2012 outlook for raw materials.
Did you expect them flat from where they are right now to go across or flat for on a year-over-year basis? Flat from where we are now yes.
Research Division</strong> So where would you think about it on a year-over-year basis for 2012? From a year-over-year basis Ivan that would be mid-single digits in terms of inflation rate.
Collated all last year.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then my last question is the Architectural Coatings in emerging markets was it just in China where you saw a decline in demand or was it in other regions and what regions were there? And then in China are you just primarily in the Tier 1 cities? Could you just tell me on the scale of about how big is that business and where do you mainly sell into? Okay.
Well you had about 3 questions in there.
But I would say that China was -- and I would say that what I described was moderating growth rates.
And that would be the case in China as well as Brazil as an example.
So growth rates were being lowered in our China business Relatively small business so less than $100 million.
And again more concentrated as I explained to the earlier questioner.
In the Eastern half of the country more in the bigger cities and the growth rates have been higher in the tier 2 3 cities and in the Western region.
Your next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Research Division</strong> You talked about share gains in Coatings.
Can you discuss sort of which segments you gained share? Was it in Autos Aerospace? And secondly with your paint plus primer product at Lowe's were you able to gain share there? Well as you saw from our Industrial Coatings segment we thought we did well in that overall segment in Auto OEM in General Industrial Refinish even if the market is let's call it a more mature market we felt we were well positioned globally.
And that's a more difficult market to get a especially a near-term share picture but we felt we've been doing well in that market.
And Olympic ONE for us was a very good launch.
We certainly exceeded our initial targets in Olympic ONE and we consider it a successful launch for us.
And I think our customer for Olympic ONE Lowe's was also pleased with the performance of our product both at the quality and the level of support that we were giving it plus the reception on the part of the customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly quickly on TiO2.
How much of the TiO2 that you buy is sulfate versus chloride-based? And are you using more Chinese -- can you just qualitatively talk about what are you doing with the Chinese TiO2 to counter the Western producers? Well the overwhelming use of our products especially in North America and Western Europe is chloride.
We have introduced sulfate grades in those markets now and that's part of the targets that we have for improving our utilization of TiO2 in the formulas.
I would say that where you see much more sulfate usage for us is in the Asia/Pacific region most of the Chinese-domestic producers are sulfate producers.
And both through acquisitions and our own activities we have learned how to work with those grades of TiO2 much more effectively so we have a higher usage of sulfate TiO2 in Asia/Pacific and in the developing or emerging region.
Research Division</strong> Just would you say that sulfate is maybe 10% of your overall purchases? Yes that's probably -- maybe higher than that P.J.
The next question comes from the line of Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> One question about housing starts.
They've had a fairly nice year and probably up low-single digits and you've seen in the back half of the year some acceleration.
Yet Architectural volumes are kind of flat and chlor-alkali is negative.
So are we seeing some sort of delay in order patterns? Has the overall picture of seasonality somehow changed? Or was there may be a pickup in demand that was in 2010 that was really pulled forward from 2011? What's going on here? Why aren't we seeing higher volumes given where housing starts are? Well housing starts in our view are still very depressed.
And we started to see over the last quarter or the last few months of 2011 a little more encouraging signs but off some very low volumes from previous years.
So I would say that we're still in the very early stages of a housing recovery.
And so it wouldn't be significant enough at this point to really see big volume increases especially at this time of year where we're still in the winter and this is not a seasonally strong quarter.
So I think if this kind of nascent recovery continues we'll probably see more volume improvements as we go through the year.
And I think all of us have been waiting for a housing recovery for a few years.
I've predicted it incorrectly to have happened certainly last year probably the year before.
It hasn't.
I'd like to be encouraged here as we see a few of these signs but I'm going to probably wait until we get a little further into this thing before I declare that yes we're in the early stages.
And we have to remember that these levels of housing starts and things are still very very low.
I think they'll come back.
We talked about automotive people said “Hey automotive’s never going to come back 8 million or 9 million builds is the new normal.” I think now everyone believes we'll get back to the old levels in the automotive industry.
And I think we'll make more of those cars here.
And I think eventually housing will correct.
I think it'll improve a little bit but at this point we're still at very low levels.
So even if the increases are let's say a little more than they have been we're still increasing off some very very low levels.
So we won't -- if you look at it overall in the industry probably not yet significant.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On your Architectural EMEA share gains would you kind of give a little bit more qualification around what were the regions or particular end markets? And then given that even with Dyrup you're still perhaps somewhat underrepresented in Germany.
Is there any interest in growing there? I mean given that you still are seeing very very nice rises in German housing prices? Well for us most of the European market and our business in Europe as well is in what we would call the Maintenance segment both Residential and Commercial Maintenance.
There's not as much of a new build or new construction market in Europe.
So the improvements that we've seen have been in that segment.
And we have some of our stronger businesses in countries that have held up better economically and the construction businesses have held up a little better.
So that would be France and the Benelux countries.
As we've described we don't have much exposure at all to the Southern Mediterranean countries.
We have a business in the U.K.
that I would say is weaker than these Western European countries.
And we’ve still been seeing some I would say some slight growth in markets where we're pretty strong like Poland as an example in Eastern Europe that haven't been affected too dramatically yet by all this weakness in the rest of Europe.
In the German market we have a relatively small position.
I don't follow the housing prices in Germany but overall the economy’s been better there.
They're well served in Germany.
They have a number of small- to medium-sized German paint manufacturers.
It's a competitive market.
We'll pick up a little more sales in Germany from the Dyrup acquisition and I think longer term it does present a growth opportunity for us.
But we're looking in Europe although we're cognizant of the fact that growth rates right now aren't that exciting.
And so to the extent that we can find the right acquisition at the right of value we'll be interested.
But we're in that market so we know growth is not going to be the big driver for earnings over the next year or so.
So we're being I would say cautious and discriminating as we look at acquisition opportunities.
And there are some of it there because the market is less consolidated than it is in North America as an example.
Research Division</strong> That’s helpful.
And just one final one if I may.
On Olympic ONE with the introduction of that product obviously there was some advertising costs.
Are those costs going to continue through 2012 or do you have an opportunity to help some margins on that side of the business? Well we obviously supported Olympic ONE in the second of the year and then wanted to support the launch and I think that went well.
We want to continue that I think there's some momentum in the brand.
Our customer has encouraged us to continue to support it.
So at this point we would like to keep that momentum going and we're just not going to strip out all the costs in order to drive some let's say near-term margin improvement although all of us realize the pressures in the Architectural business.
But we're going to try to stay the course here.
Next question is from the line of Gregg Goodnight with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Your Industrial Coatings margins you mentioned were up 200 basis points and you mentioned a couple of things.
Number one is lower gas prices and you implied that you've also taken some actions in that segment.
My question is which was the bigger effect there? And if natural gas prices decide to go up are you going to be able to keep most of that margin improvement? Gregg I think the factors in Industrial we cited were higher volumes.
Research Division</strong> Yes 4% volumes.
Yes.
Natural gas was not a factor in that.
We got higher volume and higher price versus prior period.
And then manufacturing costs Gregg.
Research Division</strong> Manufacturing costs.
So it was some fundamental improvement that contributed to that also? Right.
But natural gas has a bigger impact on our Commodity Chemicals and our Glass segments.
It's not a direct raw material for our Coatings business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That make sense appreciate the clarification.
In the Performance Coatings area you mentioned in Marine Coatings there was some increase in customer claims.
Would you characterize that as low- to mid-single-digit-type impacts and will this continue? Yes I would characterize it as low-single-digit kind of numbers and we wouldn't expect that to continue.
You have this happen periodically in the Marine Coatings industry.
These are products that are working in harsh environments and that fourth quarter item was triggered more to a resolution of a longer-standing claim.
So you would expect that this is not a continuing quarterly item but you do get that from time to time in Marine Coatings.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Last question if I could.
The $1 billion end of year cash target.
What is the assumption on your asbestos settlement? And if the asbestos settlement happens does that impact your share repurchase targets that you mentioned a little while ago? Well it would.
It's a factor Gregg.
It goes into the calculus of how we're going to deploy the cash that we have available to us.
So we're not trying to predict when that is going to occur but certainly would that to occur and we have that use of cash in 2012 it would tend to push down what we spend on share repurchase.
But then the other dynamic is the extent to which we're able to bring acquisitions to a conclusion.
So we're really trying to balance those 3 factors as the year unfolds.
Research Division</strong> And what is your best guess in terms of the settlement? Will it happen this year or is this no way to tell? No way to tell Gregg.
Your next questions come from the line of John Roberts of Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> This is Gaji Balakaneshan on for John.
Maybe start off with a clarification.
Are you guys thinking that the first quarter of 2012 is going to be sort of equivalent to the fourth quarter? Plus the seasonal change in demand or is it maybe a little better than that? I think what we articulated was the macro-environment feels the same with some seasonal uptick.
Inc.</strong> Okay I got it.
And then given the de-stocking that you saw in the second half of 2011 have you seen an end to de-stocking or maybe any restocking or possibly expecting that to occur in the near future? It's still early in the quarter.
We're only a couple of weeks into this.
I would say in Europe we're asking because we're trying to be very mindful of the situation over there.
Right now we have not seen any significant movements of de-stocking or restocking in Europe on top of what we saw in the fourth quarter.
Chinese New Year for the Asia/Pacific region is early this year it's coming up this week.
So that's kind of -- it's going to throw off a little bit of our calculations so we're going to have to wait until we move through the Chinese New Year and get further into the first quarter to see how activity and inventory levels are going to be in Asia.
And I would say here in North America most of the activity that we're seeing is normal seasonal activity.
And that means that there is some seasonal uptick in a normal pattern.
So we have not seen anything that is out of the ordinary in terms of the trends that we finished the year with.
Inc.</strong> And then lastly are there any businesses or geographies that have irrational levels of inventories? So maybe certain levels are too low given the end demand that you're seeing? Irrational levels of inventory no.
We don't have any irrational levels of inventories.
We're watching it.
I would say from what I can see at our customers’ inventory levels or suppliers’ I think everyone has been fairly cautious but not overly so.
So there is no either outright pessimism or unbridled optimism out there in inventories and I think it's more steady-as-she-goes.
Our final question today is from the line of John McNulty with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just with regard to the pricing that you're going to be putting through in the Coating space to catch up to the 2011 gross margin moves that you saw.
Does that make any assumptions for the TiO2 prices that are currently -- the hikes that are currently on the table or would that need more incremental pricing from you? Well I would say at this point we're still discussing TiO2 prices and trying to determine what's going to happen with the rest of our raw material basket.
So we're still operating at this point off of the increases that we saw in the fourth quarter for TiO2 depending on where things go.
Overall for our basket we'll have to develop our strategies once we see the general direction it's not strictly from a TiO2 standpoint and we're still under discussion for impacts in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And just on your comments on the demand environment from the housing space.
Do you think the demand is actually strong enough there to warrant or support the TiO2 hikes that are out in the industry or is that up for debate at this point? Well I made some comments on that in the past.
Overall we haven't seen a big improvement in demand in the housing sector.
It's still early in the season.
Certainly we haven't seen a lot of strength over the last couple years.
I've described today moderating growth in markets like China or Brazil concern about weakness in Europe.
So I would say overall the construction markets are still tepid overall.
And we may see a little bit of improvement as we go through the year.
But I think there’s been maybe a lot written about these nascent signs of improvement here in the U.S.
but from a volume standpoint we haven't seen dramatic improvements here just early here in January.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the question-and-answer portion of today's event.
I'd like to turn the call back over to management for some closing remarks.
Thanks Regina.
I just want to thank everybody for your time.
Please feel free to contact the Investor Relations function and we'll answer any questions you have.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you so much for your participation today.
This does conclude the presentation and you may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 PPG Industries Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jasmine and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's conference to Mr.
Vince Morales Vice President Investor Relations.
You may proceed.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everybody.
This is Vince Morales Vice President of Investor Relations for PPG Industries.
Welcome to PPG's first quarter 2012 financial teleconference.
Joining me on the call today from PPG are Chuck Bunch Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Navikas Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
Our comments relate to the financial information released on Thursday April 19 2012.
As a reminder based on our modified quarterly earnings call process approximately 1 hour ago we posted detailed commentary and accompanying presentation slides on our Investor Center at ppg.com.
The slides are also available on the webcast site for this call.
We do not read those prepared remarks during this call.
During the call Chuck will share his perspectives on the company's results for the quarter and then we will move directly to Q&amp;A.
Both the prepared commentary and discussion during this call may contain forward-looking statements reflecting the company's current view about future events and their potential effect on PPG's operating and financial performance.
These statements involve uncertainties and risks which may cause actual results to differ.
The company is under no obligation to provide subsequent updates to these forward-looking statements.
This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The company has provided in the appendix of the presentation materials which are available on our website reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
For additional information please refer to PPG's filings with the SEC.
And now let me introduce PPG's Chairman and CEO Chuck Bunch.
Thank you Vince and welcome everyone.
PPG continued our earnings growth momentum during the first quarter posting record adjusted earnings of $1.81 per share.
This marks the seventh consecutive quarterly record for the company.
This 30% increase in our earnings was driven by strengthening sales in the combined Coatings and Optical and Specialty Materials segments with earnings growth in these segments averaging about 25% versus the prior year.
In addition the Commodity Chemicals segment matched its excellent 2011 performance.
Excluding acquisition and currency impacts Coatings and Optical sales improved by more than $200 million versus the prior year's first quarter.
The primary region of improvement was the United States where all of our Coatings businesses delivered higher volumes.
Growth continued in the emerging regions but was at lower rates and with less consistency throughout the quarter than in the recent past.
European activity levels were weaker in most end-use markets.
Our improved sales also reflected higher selling prices in each Coatings business as we continued efforts to recover inflation absorbed during 2011 and additional more modest inflation in the first quarter.
Our strong focus on cost management also continued during the quarter.
And operating margins in all segments except Glass improved versus the prior year aided by our sales performance and our continued operational discipline.
Lastly we purchased 1 million shares of stock during the quarter and ended the quarter with about $1 billion of cash well above our historical first quarter cash balance.
In summary our record results in the quarter and excellent performance over the past 2 years reflect the benefits from our broad and global business portfolio and effective deployment of cash.
Looking ahead we have further growth opportunities as demand in some of our larger end-use markets such as Automotive OEM and Architectural Coatings continues to recover.
The second quarter is typically our best quarter seasonally and we expect year-over-year growth in the United States to be similar with the first quarter coupled with lower regional natural gas input costs.
We anticipate that growth in emerging regions will accelerate supported by higher Chinese industrial activity.
We expect European demand to remain muted.
However we remain proactive in dealing with these mixed market conditions and are implementing restructuring actions focused mainly in Europe with anticipated cost savings of $0.20 to $0.25 per share in the second half of this year and larger cost savings in 2013.
Finally we already have a strong cash position.
And based on the seasonality of our businesses our strongest cash generation quarters are later in the year.
We expect to continue to deploy cash throughout the year with earnings accretion remaining the focus.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Now operator would you please give instructions and open the phone lines for questions? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of John McNulty with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A quick question.
With regard to TiO2 I know you started the year expecting to be able to reduce your consumption by 4% to 6% and I guess I'd love an update as to where you stand on that right now.
And then as a follow-up you had mentioned -- I guess you had put out a release recently with a venture with Argex and was curious as to -- I know in the release you said it was going to be limited capital intensity for you guys.
But can you -- if you can quantify that a bit that would be great.
Well the first question on the metrics around our targets for reducing TiO2 consumption on a per-gallon basis we said 4% to 6% for this year.
If you looked at the first quarter John we're between 1% and 2% so on target with what we're looking for for a full year reduction or productivity improvement in TiO2 usage.
But we're where we said we would be we obviously have focus teams a big commitment from our R&amp;D organization and all of our Coatings businesses to accomplish this.
So we're on track there.
And yes we did make a announcement with our collaboration with Argex.
At this point we have not made a decision on what will be the full extent of our participation with them.
And that could include among other things an investment on our part.
But we're working closely with them now as they continue to advance the opportunity that they see in TiO2 production.
Your next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Chuck you made the comment that you're expecting the pace of business in the U.S.
to show a similar type of increase in the second quarter as it did in the first quarter.
And I guess there's a fair amount of speculation out there that the first quarter saw a material benefit from the warm weather and that was one of the reasons why you saw Architectural Coatings being as strong as it was.
And so then that begs the question was there some move from the second quarter into the first quarter because of weather? But your commentary that -- about pace of growth would indicate that you don't think so.
Can you elaborate on that? We still feel optimistic Frank about the recovery here in the United States.
It's a little bit uneven and I think we continue to receive a collection of data points and not all of which are kind of straight positive.
But if you look at some of our markets our important end-use markets like Aerospace or Automotive OEM these markets have been very strong here in the U.S.
and they continue that way.
And I'm looking for a very good year in automotive production here in North America in 2012.
On the architectural side I think we've been open about the fact that we had a very mild winter; that that probably contributed to some of the improvement that we saw in our architectural or construction-related businesses.
I would say that I think there is underlying strength though in the market.
We've seen the new home on average continue to tick-up over 10% from arguably a very low level.
The home improvement area apartments and some of those other end-use markets for Architectural Coatings continue to show I would say improvement.
So I don't think it's just weather-related.
We've argued here about what we think the pull-forward may have been.
Most of our guys say "Hey it's probably about 2/3 or 3/4 of actual improvement and the rest is weather." I can tell you as we look at the first few weeks of April weather has continued to be pretty good and I said we -- I would say we're off to a good start continuing what I talked about in Automotive or Aerospace or Heavy-Duty Equipment but also I think we're seeing more more consistent strength on the architectural side.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
Terrific.
And you mentioned in the release the fact that you've got lower natural gas pricing that it's been helping parts of the company.
I was wondering if there was a way that you might be able to quantify what your expectations are there in terms of this gift of lower natural gas pricing.
This has been the gift that keeps on giving.
Normally we say with our usage that $1 of natural gas cost will benefit us anywhere from $50 million to $60 million and we have as now burned off all of the hedges after the first quarter of this year where we had a very low couple of percent of the older hedges the $6 to $8.
We're virtually unhedged now and so we have full exposure here in our North American Commodity Chemicals and Glass businesses to these lower natural gas costs.
Now we're not sure that they can continue indefinitely at this.
I saw it touching $1.90 today -- an MCF.
So those are -- that's a great value for us.
It's still in the kind of the middle of the month.
So it doesn't -- it's not the final numbers for May or June but certainly these are attractive and that's kind of upside earnings potential we see.
Vince did you want to add something? Yes just for everybody's benchmark number we paid just over $3 in the first quarter all-in for our natural gas.
And again as Chuck mentioned that included a couple percent of some aged hedges and those hedges have burned off so that we're naked at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Actually just a follow-on on that natural gas Chuck.
With the $1.90 have you thought of hedging again or you've had your fill of hedging given the recent history? Well we still talk a lot about it Don.
But yes we've had mixed results in hedging certainly.
And over the last 3 years since all the shale gas came on the market we've -- I think we've been burned a little bit.
Earlier in the last decade we did benefit when the hedges or the prices ran up.
So I think we think about it.
We look at the forward months.
So it makes some sense in the next 3 to 6 months if you wanted to lock it in.
But you do start paying a premium if you go out 4 quarters or more.
And I think to some extent the market still seems to be -- have a high supply-demand ratio.
There's talk of the inventories are full.
There's not any more storage.
But we did benefit obviously this year from a very mild winter.
So we didn't get much of a drawdown.
So I think as we get through the second into the third quarter we're going to probably talk about this some more and look at it.
Now in the past as you remember Don you'd also try to hedge around the hurricane season because most of that natural gas production came out of the Gulf.
That's not the case as much now but we still have to be sensitive around the winter usage I think.
And longer term I think you will probably see some gas getting shut in.
So we're not sure $1.90 is a going-forward assumption for the next 3 to 5 years.
So I think your question is a good one and we're going to continue to look at it.
LLLP Research Division</strong> On Chlor-alkali pricing do you think it's peaked here? We've seen a few initiatives on the caustic side.
They haven't gotten much traction.
I guess even the chlorine one didn't.
And rates are below where they were a year ago with soft Chlorovinyls exports.
Is your sense that the next move in ECU pricing could be down here? Well right now yes we're seeing the same things that you just talked about.
There have been pricing initiatives on both the caustic and chlorine here over the last month up but I would say that here in the near term it looks like pricing is stable.
We are attempting to get the increases that have been announced but I would say going into the second quarter here we're looking at stable prices.
If you look at what's going to be happening later this year I think there are a few variables.
So right now it's a little too early in the year to say how the second half's going to shape up.
But certainly I would say your comments are accurate around stable pricing here in the second quarter although I think ourselves and maybe other producers are trying to get some of those increased.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to talk a little bit about Optical.
Obviously you had a meaningful disruption in Thailand in 4Q.
You've bounced back strongly from that episode.
How much if any restocking benefit was there in the first quarter? And maybe you can elaborate on your expectations for how the year could play out there from a penetration -- market penetration and a profit perspective please? For us I think there was at the end of 2011 both with some of the uncertainty in the market in the fourth quarter as well as some of the Thailand situation I think there was some de-stocking.
So in the first quarter of this year we have benefited I think from a return to more normal inventory levels.
But as we look especially here in the U.S.
and the European markets where we get better and faster market data I would say there's been a nice recovery.
I think the consumer is healthier here in the U.S.
market which is our strongest for Transitions.
But we saw good at-market sales improvement in Transitions and that was encouraging.
So it certainly wasn't a case of just a restocking after the fourth quarter.
We think that the second quarter is going to be another good one.
We think that the consumer is getting healthier here in the U.S.
and we're continuing to support the brand and the business at the same level.
So we're looking for a good year this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Coatings Chuck you touched upon TiO2 briefly earlier.
But if I look at the broader basket of raw materials for Coatings what would be your updated outlook for cost inflation in 2012 versus 2011? Well we've been saying that we've thought that we may see raw material full basket 3% to 5% kind of increases and that would have included TiO2.
And we came in for the year or we finished 2011 I would say with a little more muted inflation on some of the organic raw materials.
We've seen those -- some of those prices move up here in the first quarter on the spot side.
Now you look at propylene pricing ethylene which we're not quite as sensitive to in some of our Coatings businesses but you've seen some of the run-up in those costs here in the first quarter on the spot side.
So that could lead to some pressure continuing pressure on the organic side as we go through the year.
Right now I don't know that it's going to get any worse than I told you in terms of our forecast in the second quarter.
But the second half we'll have to see.
You see oil prices coming down but you do have some spot costs here on some of these building block chemicals moving up at least in this market.
Now Asia and China a little different story.
Some of these raw materials have come down including TiO2 in China is lower now.
So I think we have -- you're going to have to look at the broad geographic picture here and you're going to have some puts and takes.
But certainly Asia with the growth rates a little lower than they have been and prices coming down Europe with some of the weakness there you're not seeing as much pressure.
So it just depends on the geographic area but I think overall the percentages that I gave you are probably in the range.
Your next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Now housing starts were pulled forward in 1Q.
So 6 months later when that house is ready you're going to need to paint again right? So if that's the case what are your expectations for spring and summer selling season for this year? And last year Chuck you've gained some share with your Olympic ONE paint.
I mean do you expect that momentum to continue this year? Well I would say what we're seeing I think we're all concerned that maybe how much did we pull-forward into the first quarter.
I've described here in the U.S.
anyway that we're off to a decent start here in April.
And I'm optimistic that we're going to see some continuing strength here in the housing market in the -- and in the home improvement area as well.
I think that's been a pretty consistent story for us.
As far as our share gains we had good volume across all channels and combined with the pricing.
We felt pretty good about all of the markets here in the U.S.
Commercial construction at least the new commercial construction hasn't been as strong and that's been impacting our flat glass business.
But we feel pretty good through the balance of the year.
The new home construction is not the biggest part of the residential market as you know.
It's more tied to home improvement anyway both at the DIY and at the contractor level.
So we feel pretty good about that and we're pleased with what we've been able to accomplish with the new product introductions.
You mentioned Olympic ONE.
We had a very nice start for that product launch in 2011 in the middle of the year.
That success appears to be carrying through here in 2012.
So we're quite pleased with that introduction and where we are generally in the market and in the channels.
Research Division</strong> Chuck you've been vocal about potentially selling the remaining part of your Glass business.
Now I was wondering if you have -- if you were to expect any actions in 2012.
Well if you look at the first quarter results they were I think for us disappointing in the Glass segment.
We have -- I felt at least in the case of the flat glass business here have been fairly patient with the recovery that we're looking for eventually in the broader construction markets here in the U.S.
and in the commercial construction market.
So absent a really attractive offer that creates value we're going to be patient and wait for what we think is good timing.
We don't need the cash right now but we are open to listen to opportunities if there are really interested parties in the business -- in either of the businesses in our Glass segment.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Chuck I guess -- the Street normally has a pretty high regard for your ability to keep costs in check.
I was a little surprised by the scale of your restructuring savings that you've lined out.
Can you give us a little more granularity on where those savings specifically come from? And then also the high component that's in the SigmaKalon Architectural business I would have thought that was pretty scrubbed down.
So maybe a little bit more detail there as well? Well I would say Bob that as we've looked at all our businesses in Europe especially with the weakening conditions -- if you were to go back in time a few years we bought SigmaKalon at the beginning of 2008.
And at that time the markets were I would say relatively stronger at that time and certainly stronger than what we were seeing in the U.S.
They didn't go into the recession as deeply.
They didn't have some of the banking problems.
And so we felt that we were well-positioned.
Yes we did take some costs out in those restructuring announcements at the -- in the third quarter of '08 or the beginning of '09.
They weren't necessarily focused on SigmaKalon.
Now with what we see overall in the market I would say that that's -- there's an opportunity there in that business in particular to consolidate further in many of the functional areas to integrate further with the rest of our PPG businesses in Europe.
And with the outlook in the market being as weak as it is we thought it was better to move forward now and do the restructuring that we can do now in -- I wouldn't say in advance of the downturn because we're experiencing that now but try to get our cost position even better to withstand and hopefully improve on the earnings that you're seeing in this weak market.
But if things do deteriorate further which we're not seeing -- I mean we're seeing weakness but we're not seeing a free fall in the businesses there.
We felt that we would be better positioned going forward.
Research Division</strong> For my follow-up Chuck you -- I'm just curious from a board level how you guys think about the stock price and valuation.
I mean it seems like your margins in paint are superior to your paint rivals yet your multiple's substantially lower.
And I recognize there's a commodity chemical element in there but frankly your multiples' not much higher than some of those commodity chemical guys.
So do you think about this? Do you worry about this at all? And if you do what's the path to rectifying the problem? Well I've talked about this over the years and I think that was one of the goals as we focused the portfolio more over the last 4 or 5 years to make sure that we were getting recognized as a coatings and specialty company.
And I think by and large if you looked at the years after the SigmaKalon acquisition and the divestiture of half the Glass business that was at the -- in 2008 I thought that we made significant progress.
And we're being I think viewed more closely aligned let's say to coatings and specialty peers.
That gap's opened up a little bit again.
We're aware of that.
Is it the Commodity Chemicals? I'm not sure because the business is performing quite well.
We do have more European exposure than some of our peers.
So I would say that we're aware of it.
We tried not to look at this thing on a short-term basis and react.
I try to let the analyst community you and your peers kind of try to educate and guide the market in terms of our company and what we're doing and -- but we're not unaware I would say.
And I think if it persists we have opportunities whether it's share buybacks or further focusing on the portfolio which we are prepared to do.
We've shown we will make acquisitions.
We will pursue organic growth in Coatings and specialties and we are willing to make divestitures when we feel that we have a good opportunity to create shareholder value.
But I note -- duly noted I'm not going to go on a value rant Bob but we're aware of the opportunity for us and maybe it's that we have to do a better job here for making sure people understand our company and what we're doing.
And I think our performance has been very strong and we're going to just try to keep delivering and hopefully that will be recognized.
Your next question comes from the line of Ivan Marcuse with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> When you look at your architectural business and you compare your DIY to the stores -- to your stores was either one of those groups stronger than the other? Significantly that gives you some sort of optimism towards housing or just the construction markets in general? Or was it just -- were they equal I guess in their year-over-year growth? I would say we had as I mentioned earlier we had good growth both overall sales growth and volume growth in all 3 of the channels.
That's the DIY the -- our store network and our independent dealer channel.
I would say DIY may have been slightly stronger.
But it's hard for us to say this early in the season if that -- what was happening out the door versus some elements of de-stocking and the like.
But I would say that foot traffic on all the stores and including the ones that I visit both on our own or our local Lowe's stores foot traffic's been up consistently and so we're encouraged that it's broader-based.
Research Division</strong> Great and then on the acquisition front I saw that your -- I mean you know that your cash position is about as high as it's ever been in the first quarter and your share buybacks were lower at least on a year-over-year basis.
So does this imply that you have some acquisitions that you expect to complete over the next 6 to 9 months? And if not would you see a pretty substantial acceleration in your buyback? Well at this point we are -- we're continuing to look at acquisitions as we historically have.
I really can't comment if anything is imminent but we continue to work the pipeline that we have.
We've tried to remain a disciplined buyer and find the right valuations.
And I would say obviously as I have in the past if we can't find those acquisitions with the cash that we have on the balance sheet we would accelerate share buybacks through the course of the year.
If you look last year we were around $900 million in terms of share buybacks.
We were certainly well below that rate in the first quarter and so we have some dry powder if in fact acquisitions don't materialize.
And our organic capital spending we're not seeing anything out of the ordinary here.
So I think we're prudently funding the businesses.
Our biggest projects which were 2 that we did in China last year the Zhangjiagang resin plant plus the Tianjin automotive coatings and industrial coatings plant in China.
Those were our biggest projects last year.
They're -- the resin plant up and running successful.
So we think that it's -- we're going to have what I would call a modest organic capital spending profile this year.
So we will have some flexibility if we can't find the acquisitions.
Your next question comes from the line of Duffy Fischer with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> In Performance Coatings 2 of the SBUs there one auto refinish and the other marine.
Marine just because of what's happening in the boat business itself was down.
Can you kind of comment? Do you think we're at the trough as far as your inputs go into Marine with where shipbuilding is? And then in auto refinish when your competitors was talking about auto refinish being a little bit weaker are you seeing that as well? And are you seeing kind of any degradation I guess in the quality of that very good business? Well if you looked at the components of -- or the SBU components of the Performance Coatings I would say for us the biggest SBU in there automotive refinish had a good -- it had a solid first quarter.
It wasn't a shoot-the-lights-out quarter.
We had pretty good growth here in North America actually in Asia-Pacific also quite well.
Europe on the auto refinish side was a little weaker.
But overall it was -- there was volume growth and it was a fairly solid quarter I would say.
And on the protective and Marine side Marine has been one of the businesses we've talked a lot about especially the Chinese OEM marine building.
The first quarter actually wasn't quite as weak as it had been here in the second half.
Korea was a little better.
The protective side for us here in North America and actually in Europe kind of took up some of the slack.
So I would say the protective and marine market was okay.
But the real strength in our Performance Coatings Aerospace had a really excellent quarter and they are doing very well across all their product lines.
And with our inroads into -- with some of these new products in the commercial aviation and the strength of some of our customers like Boeing and Airbus those guys are doing really well and doing really well in terms of an operational excellence strategy.
So we're really pleased with that business.
And also the architectural business in North America is in that Performance Coatings segment.
And as we've been describing they had a very solid first quarter.
So it's kind of -- it was kind of mixed but I would say overall there weren't any really weak stories but some certainly a little stronger than others.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then if you just think about kind of the seasonal or normal seasonal progression January to February to March to April and you look across all your businesses and geographies are there any that weren't following kind of the normal progression of getting better as each month gets towards summer? Well are you talking about architectural or more broadly? Research Division</strong> No across the whole business.
So across all your businesses all your geographies is there just anywhere that's not following kind of the seasonal pattern of improving as we go along into the summer? Well let's just talk about the regions.
I think you've heard from my comments we're optimistic on the North American market and the U.S.
across all of the end-use markets.
We're not seeing anything here in the U.S.
that's particularly weak.
Yes some are stronger like Aerospace or Automotive OEM but Architectural's been good and a lot of the other industrial activity is also good here.
In Europe there's a couple of markets that are a little better.
Aerospace there is quite good.
The packaging business has been good but Europe is weaker in auto OEM slightly weaker in auto refinish.
And our volumes were down slightly in European architectural.
They were offset with productivity and some pricing action.
So overall you saw our architectural earnings grow and the margins were up slightly in kind of an off -- in this first quarter which is the off season.
So Europe was weaker with a couple of segments that weren't quite as bad.
In China a slightly different story.
And usually what we've seen Duffy is you come out of January and February depending on where Chinese New Year falls then you really see -- you things roar back in after Chinese New Year and in -- certainly in March.
In China today I would say the construction markets are weaker than they've been so we didn't see that pick up.
We thought that consumer electronics which affects our -- both our fiberglass and our Industrial Coatings segment those were weaker through the first quarter even given that Chinese New Year effect.
Now there's some other segments that we think are okay Packaging.
Automotive refinish was a good business in China and now we have a little more optimism on China here in the second quarter.
We don't think that -- we think that the -- the Automotive OEM market is going to be a little better.
We're not looking for a pick-up on the construction side.
But we're starting to see some improvement also in consumer electronics.
So it's a little out of the seasonal patterns over there.
But we do have a leadership change in China later this year.
Usually the government has an impact on economic activity over there whether it's trying to provide incentives around the infrastructure building or incentives for buying more fuel-efficient cars and the like.
And we think we'll see some of that as we go through the year.
They're trying to manage this inflationary pressure that they're feeling.
You saw some of the movements on the currency as well.
So I think China we're going to continue to watch but we didn't see anything that was really alarming in the first quarter.
Out of season yes.
Second quarter actually we're thinking things are going to be a little better although the growth rates aren't as high as they have been in the last few years.
Your next question comes from the line of David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Chuck a couple of things.
First on European architectural do you expect volumes to be down year-over-year in Q2 and Q3? Or should it be more flattish? I think the overall market will be down slightly.
If you look at -- and then it's going to just depend on the country or the market.
But right now I would say there's probably more countries that are weaker than stronger.
So you still have the problems in the Mediterranean countries where we don't have a lot of participation.
Eastern Europe with the exception of Poland has been weak.
You see markets like France and Germany and the Benelux which have held up relatively well I would say over the first quarter.
And we're not seeing anything that's dramatically different as we go into the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> And just on your European restructuring for Coatings are you walking away from any lower margin business in that process? Lower margin business in any of our Coatings businesses or...
Research Division</strong> Well it's tied to the restructuring announcement.
No we're not closing.
There are no plant closings in Coatings in Europe with this restructuring.
And so at this point we are using this as productivity improvements.
We're not trying to shed unprofitable business.
If you remember last year we did lose one customer; not to something that we did but they -- this was in the U.K.
where we had a large customer declare bankruptcy in the second quarter.
So that volume went away and we had a charge in the second quarter of last year which we don't expect to repeat here in 2012.
Research Division</strong> And just lastly Chuck on this Argex collaboration can you -- what percent of your U.S.
TiO2 needs will it satisfy? And can you just frame a potential savings versus current market prices you might realize? David it's really too early in our collaboration.
And they're in the early stages.
They have ore -- access to ore supplies.
They have the beginnings of a process but I would say we're some time away from having a good assessment on what the volumes or what our relationship is going to be.
You're probably at this point better asking those questions at the Argex team rather than us at this point.
Research Division</strong> And lastly do you expect any impact on auto builds from this Nylon 12 disruption? This is an emerging issue for us.
We're just starting to talk about it this week with some of the publicity and with some of the things that the auto companies are doing.
We had this experience last year around with the Japanese earthquake and tsunami.
So it's -- and this is a -- it's not part of our supply chain.
So we're not fully aware of all the impacts that this is going to have.
I'm a little -- I think I'm learning about it as many of you are and I'm concerned.
But at this point we have no information on what the impact would be and we're following events closely.
Your next question comes from the line of Saul Ludwig with North Coast Research.
In the Coatings businesses what was the net price versus raw material less spread in the first quarter? Did you get 100%? Where were you? And if you were short how many dollars short were you? And then how do you see the price ROS ratio looking ahead? Saul this is Vince.
For the first quarter we were very close to parity.
Price ROS I'd tell you we still absorbed a tremendous amount of inflation last year.
And although we were parity for the company some of our businesses still have some room in order to get pricing to match raw inflation.
As we look ahead as Chuck mentioned we expect moderate inflation.
We are getting select pricing in a few of our businesses in Q2.
So I expect we'll again be close to parity and in some businesses offsetting some of that absorbed inflation from last year.
And so just to clarify what you said earlier about ROS you think for the full year ROS are going to be up by 3% to 5%? That was our first half and it's probably little too early to predict the second half at this point.
And then finally on the cost savings that you're going to be achieving in Europe will we see the lion's share of that flow into the EMEA segment? Saul in the presentation we had on our website today it had a detail by segment for the second half of 2012 as well as all of 2013.
So we broke our projected savings down by segment for you and your peers.
Your next question comes from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn with Longbow Research.
Couple of questions; a lot of them have been answered.
But on the Optical business and -- the Optical and Specialty I should say business the strong margin you've delivered I mean it's been a strong margin business all along.
But I think this is the first time you've seen north of 30% margin there.
Was it largely a sort of a clawback from the fourth quarter on the Optical side? Or did you see better demand from automotive and better pricing in volumes on the silicate side? Can you take us through sort of what drove that business performance in the first quarter? And also what -- how should we be thinking about margins in that business is 30% plus sustainable? Well we would say if you looked within the segment the Optical business was stronger than precipitated silica business and the Teslin business.
Precipitated silica and Teslin had very good quarters.
But I would say that if you looked at the improvement it was driven more by the recovery in the improvement in Optical.
And those margins I would say have been fairly consistent over the last few years.
We had a couple of quarters last year where they weren't quite as strong in Optical but they were picked up by Silica.
So I think in general we're going to see margins around what we've talked about here.
Going forward I think I described that the second quarter looks solid for both segments.
And so I would say we're looking to sustain margins around that 30% level over time which -- and I think we've been fairly consistent these last few years.
Okay very good.
To follow-up on the comment that you made on packaging Coatings business I thought -- if I remember correctly you said that it was a pretty strong business in the quarter.
Can you update us on what's going on with Bisphenol-A-free coatings? I know there's been some rulings or postponement of rulings in the U.S.
Is there a customer pull developing for this technology? Or customers are still holding off until they get the official ruling from the regulatory bodies? I think what we're seeing -- we've been actively developing these products for a number of years.
In fact this is a trend that we've been preparing for for some time.
The regulatory environment is I think still favorable for changes but I think what we're seeing now is more of a pull from the consumers.
And the consumer packaged goods companies are more aware of this.
I think they view it as an opportunity to engage with their consumers and drive value and positioning in the market.
So some of the -- what I would say some of the inertia in supply chain or the value chain over the years has now I think changed.
And you see the end users -- or in packaging parlance the fillers -- actively engaged in the qualification and -- of these new BPA-free or BPA non-intend products.
And I think it'll be an opportunity for all of the packaging coatings companies to provide solutions create additional value that will have benefits for the consumer.
So I think right now this is actually a more favorable environment than over the years when we've been developing the products but really didn't know when or where they were going to be introduced or qualified.
Do you expect any sales this year from this product or not? Oh yes we have sales right now.
In fact we had sales last year of these initial sales.
Obviously still modest but we see that picking up.
So this is -- these are not just future potentials.
We're seeing it right now.
And in fact many of the exporters in Asia or some of the food producers that bring food into the developed markets as well or -- whether it's in tuna fish or whatever they're also actively working on programs here.
So it is I would say it's more broad-based and yes the sales are there right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Gregg Goodnight with UBS.
Research Division</strong> The -- you mentioned titanium dioxide price increases have slowed down.
Presumably you meant the implementation of the increases because the announcements sure have not slowed down.
Could you comment on the -- how you see the trajectory of that market? I mean we're hearing that January February's a bit slow.
March has picked up.
I mean Coating volumes are certainly up.
Is -- are prices for TiO2 going to reaccelerate? Well that's hard for me to comment on I think fully.
You'd -- I think the better source is the TiO2 producers.
I think earlier in the Q&amp;A I commented that obviously the market here in North America is stronger including the architectural market.
But Europe as I've been talking about is actually a bigger TiO2 market and that's been weaker and the volumes have been lower.
And also in Asia and particularly in China where the volumes are lower we have the Chinese -- albeit sulfate producers for TiO2 quite active.
So I would say the pricing dynamics for TiO2 are -- appear to be different depending on the region of the world and there have been a lot of announcements.
We have said that there are probably some increases that we will have to accept in certain regions from certain suppliers.
But we are actively in discussions now to try and minimize the impact to our company of what's going on in the TiO2 market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You mentioned your cash balance and your interest in deploying your cash in accretive efforts.
I would assume you consider share buybacks sufficiently accretive at these prices that you would support that.
Could you comment on the level of share buyback you're looking at this year? I mean last year $1 billion was effectively 100% of your free cash flow.
Is it going to be to those sort of levels? Or do you see substantially lower share buyback this year? Gregg this is Dave Navikas.
At the latter part of last year in December we had indicated an expectation of cash deployment for share buyback in 2012 in the range of $250 million to $500 million and that was putting some focus on the acquisitions that we're hoping will develop.
And we also indicated that we would see that may be more back-end loaded in 2012 than in the first part of the year.
So we're still evaluating acquisition possibilities.
And I would still say that that $250 million to $500 million kind of figure is a good one relative to our expected share buyback activity.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That shapes it.
Could you comment just generally on the environment for M&amp;A? Are the evaluations reasonable? Are there sufficient targets out there that seem interesting enough to pursue? Well I would characterize it as there are -- if you look at the 2 acquisitions that we made in Coatings that we closed on in January one in Europe and a smaller company in South America now I would say those are more typical of the opportunities that we see right now.
I think there is still more consolidation to take place in Europe.
So I think there's potentially more opportunities.
But again as we've been talking about on the call growth rates are not as good.
It's a very weak economic environment over there.
So if you do make acquisitions in Europe you're going to have to extract synergies and the like to justify the acquisition.
So again opportunities over there but I think you have to be selective because the overall economic environment is so weak.
In Asia I think that things are changing a little bit.
Growth rates are coming down overall for the economy and some of these end-use markets but I'm not sure yet that the kind of the expectations of the companies that could be for sale have changed in view of the lower growth assumption.
So I think there may be some give-and-take here if we're going to see completed acquisitions in Asia that we're all going to have to come together on what we think the expected future growth rates are going to be and what that's going to do in earnings.
We haven't seen as much activity here in North America.
There's not as many available properties so it's difficult for to me to say.
But I'd say Europe because it's weak and Asia because it has been strong and the people may be a little -- still trying to get some of those values are going to be where you see more activity.
Your next question comes from the line of Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Walker on for Laurence.
I guess first -- most of my questions have been answered.
But just a quick question on what's your expectations for the tax rate going forward? Tax rate is held at 25% in the first quarter as we look out for the year.
And I would say that that continues to be a good value to use as you think about the remainder of 2012.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just on your raw material expectation I think you said 3% to 5% for the first half of the year year-over-year including TiO2.
I mean with TiO2 prices coming up pretty dramatically depending on what you guys are seeing it's somewhere in the range of 20% 30% or so I'd imagine -- and with a large portion of your ROS coming from TiO2.
I guess what portion of -- what are you seeing falling year-over-year to get to that 3% to 5%? Rob just a quick -- because our architectural business is about 30% of our total Coatings business architectural is where majority of our TiO2 is consumed.
So a smaller profile there helps us relative to some of the peers.
We've seen some of the organics come down year-over-year.
Inflation as Chuck mentioned earlier has been spotty in those organics with oil.
That would be the biggest decline.
Your next question comes from the line of Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I had a question.
On Protective and Marine was that a drag on earnings or was it flat? It was a 0.
As Chuck mentioned our activity was a little better than we expected in the quarter.
So it wasn't a drag or it wasn't a benefit either.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So from what I take from the comments it sounds like Protective offset Marine a little bit.
And when you think of Protective it seems like a kind of a lumpy business.
So do you expect that ability to offset Marine to continue? Or is it -- or maybe I'm wrong maybe it's not lumpy.
Well the way we look at the global market it's about half Protective which is big infrastructure projects or maintenance spending and manufacturing locations and about half Marine.
But that half of Marine is split between the OEM or new builds and the aftermarket.
And I would say that the longer-term trends on the Protective side I wouldn't describe as lumpy.
Typically the most cyclicality that you would get on these segments would be the Marine new build segment and this is the one that we probably highlighted more over the last 1.5 years because we have -- we were working off a very big backlog.
And then after the big recession and some of the declines in global trade and what was happening in the shipping industry you saw them working through that backlog and that will -- that's still coming down.
And we've seen some of that -- some of those freight the freighters or -- being replaced by let's call it the drillships and things that are more tied to oil and gas exploration and the like.
So I would say that protective should have an opportunity if there's a global upturn in infrastructure spending.
And certainly some of the governments like China are spending a lot as is Brazil as is the recovery here this whole manufacturing and industrial recovery in the U.S.
So all these I think are positive signs on the Protective side.
And that's going to be a positive and stable growth as opposed to what we still see as some continuing weakness on the Marine new build.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
In your Architectural Coatings in Europe now you don't have much exposure to Spain and Portugal which I'm sure you're probably glad about.
But I'm just curious if -- and clearly you -- Chuck you spoke of earlier that you had to have very compelling reasons to look at a property there.
But I'm wondering if things have turned there yet to make distressed properties or any properties get so distressed that they are compelling.
Well I guess -- I think we're starting to see prices come down in Europe for some of the properties.
But again it's -- you have to make some assumptions about when you're going to see an upturn.
Even our Dyrup acquisition which we think will be a positive one our expectations for top line growth are limited in that business and we are trying to develop good plans for synergies and integration with the rest of the business.
So we're -- there's a lot of maybe and could be especially in these Mediterranean markets distressed properties.
And yes I think we talked earlier on the call about even though -- we think we've demonstrated that our European business is even in this weaker economic environment is fine.
I mean we have our earnings growth in our EMEA architectural business albeit modest but -- so we think we're going to be fine.
But I think some people have been waiting to see how we will perform with the European business that we have.
So we're not afraid of Europe.
We'll make additional acquisitions if we think any fit.
But right now we are also focused on executing and getting our cost lower.
So we'll be fine regardless of whether things continue weaker or yes we see an eventual upturn.
Your next question will come from the line of Gaji Balakaneshan with Buckingham Research Group.
First off I was just wondering if your thinking has changed at all regarding the chemical business.
So is that something that you would consider possibly monetizing or either expanding? I think Gaji we've said all along that our core business is our Coating and Optical.
That hasn't changed in certainly the 7 years Chuck's been CEO and that's been our strategy: to grow in Coating and Optical.
Okay.
And then secondly kind of an open-ending question but from the prepared remarks it sounds like the emerging regions were a little bit uneven in Performance and Industrial Coatings? Can you just elaborate on what you're seeing there? Well I think we've seen some variability in the numbers of the markets.
We've talked -- I think we talked about some of the end-use markets in China and some were pretty good.
Others we saw some more weakness.
So I think I commented that Poland was pretty good in Eastern Europe but some of the other Eastern European countries were weaker.
South Africa not a really big market for us but we do we have a decent-sized business there.
That's been weaker.
So it is I guess spotty in terms of how the -- these emerging markets or even what you describe as emerging markets.
And arguably one of the situations we're watching although we don't again have a huge exposure is Argentina where there's a lot of interaction now going on at the government level with economic policy and it's one where we do have some concerns as an example.
So these would be 4 or 5 examples of yes things are in general good but we can find markets either countries or end-use markets that have some stress in them or not as consistent growth as we've seen in the past.
Ladies and gentlemen at this time the Q&amp;A session has ended.
And I would like to turn the call back to Mr.
Vince Morales for closing remarks.
Thank you.
I'd like to thank everybody for their time today.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact our Investor Relations group.
I appreciate your interest in PPG.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2012 PPG Industries Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Andrew and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Vince Morales Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you and good afternoon everybody.
Again my name is Vince Morales Vice President of Investor Relations for PPG Industries.
Welcome to PPG's second quarter 2012 financial teleconference.
Joining me on the call today from PPG are Chuck Bunch our Chairman and CEO; Dave Navikas Senior Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer; and Michael McGarry Senior Vice President Commodity Chemicals.
Our comments relate to the financial information released on Thursday July 19 2012.
As a reminder based on our modified quarterly earnings call process about 1 hour ago we posted the detailed commentary and accompanying presentation slides on our Investor Center at www.ppg.com.
Those slides are also available on the webcast site for this call.
We do not read those prepared remarks during the call.
However during the call Chuck will share his perspective on the results for the quarter and then we will move directly to Q&amp;A.
Both the prepared commentary and discussion during this call may contain forward-looking statements reflecting the company's current view about future events and their potential effect on PPG's operating and financial performance.
These statements involve uncertainties and risks which may cause actual results to differ.
The company is under no obligation to provide subsequent updates to these forward-looking statements.
The presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The company has provided in the appendix of the presentation materials which are available on our website reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
For additional information please refer to PPG's filings with the SEC.
Now let me introduce PPG's Chairman and CEO Chuck Bunch.
Thank you Vince and welcome everyone.
PPG continued our earnings growth momentum during the second quarter posting our highest earnings in the company's history.
Our adjusted earnings per diluted share of $2.36 per share were up 11% versus last year and marked the eighth consecutive quarterly record for the company.
We delivered these record results despite weakened European economic conditions and sizable negative impacts from weakening foreign currencies in Europe and Latin America.
Continued organic growth in our coatings businesses in the United States and emerging regions along with the favorable impact from our recent acquisitions offset the reduced European sales results.
As a result aggregate coatings segment earnings grew by more than 10% versus last year.
The primary region for volume improvement was the United States where our volume growth was fairly consistent with the first quarter.
Sales growth in local currencies continued in the emerging regions but was mixed by end-use market.
Our effective cash deployment over the past year including the performance of our recent acquisitions and a reduction of 5 million shares from our diluted share count also contributed to the improved earnings.
To summarize our performance PPG's record results in the quarter and over the past 2 years continue to provide measurable evidence of the strength of our global business portfolio strong cash generation and the effective deployment of our cash.
Looking ahead we expect European demand to remain challenging.
As such we are aggressively implementing our previously announced restructuring programs focused primarily in this region.
Targeted savings from these programs is between $40 million and $50 million in the second half of this year.
We expect growth in North America and Asia to continue but to remain inconsistent by end-use market.
Finally we absorbed similar coatings input cost inflation in the first and second quarters but we expect to offset the negative effects of this inflation in the second half of the year with selectively higher pricing and lower commodity input costs.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Now operator would you please give instructions and open the phone lines for questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Chuck I was wondering if you could amplify your thoughts on raw material cost trends in the back half of the year.
Is it the case that the rate of inflation is decelerating or do you expect costs to actually come down sequentially in the back half? And then related to that Chuck if you could provide an update on the TiO2 pigment cost trends please.
Okay Kevin.
What we expect in the second half of this year -- we  have absorbed a higher raw material cost in the first and second quarters.
In the second half we expect this trend to now stabilize with some declines in raw material prices by region and by commodity that will offset some of the price increases that we received in raw materials in the first half.
In regards to the TiO2 pricing we continue to see more favorable supply-demand environment and depending on the region some changes in pricing for TiO2.
In Asia as we've commented in earlier calls we have actually seen price declines in Asia in TiO2 pricing.
That's versus not only the first half but also in 2011.
In Europe we're seeing now not only stability but some declines in the second half that we're anticipating even though we may be paying more in the second half of this year than we paid in the second half of 2011.
And in North America we're seeing stability around price trends going forward into the second half albeit we are paying more today than we were in the second half of 2011 and prices for the second half in North America are still under discussion with our suppliers.
Research Division</strong> And then as a second question Chuck if I may with regard to cash deployment you've indicated that repurchases will be on hold pending completion of the Georgia Gulf deal.
Can you speak though to M&amp;A and what prospects you would see for acquisitions perhaps in the Architectural or Industrial Coatings arenas around the world? We're still pursuing acquisitions in all regions and in all segments of the business and we think that it is a more fertile opportunity for us in these changing economic conditions.
But at this point we do not have any imminent announcements for transactions.
But we are continuing to pursue those across the board in our businesses.
And the next question comes from Bob Koort Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Chuck I think you talked a little bit about some uneven growth rates in Asia.
I'm wondering if you can give us a little more granularity around that.
What businesses there are still growing nicely and which ones maybe have fallen off a bit from where you entered the year? If you look at Asia but in particular our biggest market there is China.
The strongest growth rates that we have seen have been in the automotive OEM coatings.
Auto refinish has also been strong as has packaging coatings.
We're still seeing growth in our Industrial Coatings segment although there are some end-use markets in Industrial Coatings that are not as strong.
And in particular I think the weakness that we have seen in China but we've also seen it elsewhere in Asia.
The Construction markets have slowed down there and so both in Architectural but also Industrial or other segments -- subsegments that are tied to the construction businesses we have seen a slowdown in volume in China and more broadly in Asia.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Transitions you talked a little bit about some customer inventory management.
Is that something that can have a duration of more than a couple of months? And does this speak to general anxiety about consumer spend? Or where do you attribute the weakness there to? Well we think in part there was a strong restocking trend in the first quarter that we talked about that really boosted our results there and I think what you're seeing now in the second quarter and it could have a little longer duration is a weakness in some of the consumer markets especially in Europe especially in markets in southern Europe.
And I think some caution on the part of our customers in Optical business to carry inventories with their concern over economic conditions over the next few quarters.
The next question comes from John McNulty Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
On the Architectural EMEA business the earnings were up nicely despite currency maybe impacting them in kind of the difficult economic environment.
So I guess I'm wondering how much if any of this improvement was tied to some of the early cost cuts and if some of the -- and the restructuring.
And if some of that's coming in early do you have any expectations for having a better number than what you originally were looking for the for the year-end? John I would say that we are working on the restructuring program that we identified or outlined in the first quarter.
I would say that we're on pace there.
But by and large the benefits that we're seeing here in the second quarter in our European architectural businesses are I think coming from good operations no volume growth but slightly improved pricing and good operating discipline.
We are starting to see the impact of some of the cost reduction and that will be a little larger in the second half and into next year.
But I would say it's too early certainly in the second quarter to have that really be measurable.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just as a follow-up on the auto coatings side in the U.S.
it sounded like you had a lot of strength.
How much of that is tied to just the overall industry? And how much of it would you say if any is tied to to maybe share gains that you're starting to see? Well the North American volume gains for our automotive coatings business have been very strong and I would say that you have 2 effects.
You have the market recovery.
So we're seeing and we have been seeing this year 15% to 20% volume improvements in North America in overall builds.
Some of that being helped by a year-earlier comparisons.
Remember we had the effect of the Japanese earthquake and tsunami that really restricted some of the production in the second quarter of last year.
But I would say that our strength in North America has been across the board.
Yes a recovery with the Japanese-based OEM manufacturers but clearly we're seeing I think a general improvement in the overall automotive OEM market the tsunami recovery.
And actually something that we've talked about in a number of earlier calls where you're seeing more production moved here to North America both on the part of the Japanese-based manufacturers but the Koreans are now producing here.
And we've seen solid growth in North American manufacturing for the European-based companies such as the Germans the BMWs Mercedes VW they're all here now and ramping up production.
So I think you have the effect -- all 3 of those effects.
I would say our improvement is more tied to those improvements.
We think we'll get share certainly our share and probably more as we move through this cycle.
But I think it is the overall improvement in the business that we're benefiting from in North America.
And the next question we have comes from David Begleiter Deutsche Bank.
.
Research Division</strong> Chuck just in terms of U.S.
demand trends have you seen any weakening in the last few weeks or towards the end of June? In our businesses? Research Division</strong> Yes generally speaking given some of the macro headlines and any sense the U.S.
is beginning to slow down at all.
Our view is that obviously the first quarter had strong growth year-over-year.
We talked about some of the seasonality the better weather the caution at the end of last year around inventories.
So the first quarter was stronger in terms of overall volume growth.
But we've seen volume growth here in North America in the second quarter and I would say we haven't seen any pullback or correction over the last few weeks or the last month.
I would say it's been pretty steady growth even if it's not at the same level that we saw in a year-over-year basis in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> And just on TiO2 Chuck you talk about your target reduced consumption by 5% this year and 10% next year.
Are you on track? Are you ahead of schedule? We said we identified for this year a 4% to 6% reduction in TiO2 consumption on a similar-volume basis.
Over the first half we were a little over 2% in terms of our more efficient use of TiO2 in our formulation so we're on track.
We're still focused on this area even if the supply-demand and pricing environment has stabilized but we're still focused.
And these projects are still delivering so so we think that we'll be within that range in terms of overall improvement in productivity for our use of TiO2.
Research Division</strong> And last Chuck -- last thing Chuck given TiO2 prices rolling over in Europe and Asia I would think you would be asking your guys to push for price decreases in the U.S.
Are you and do you expect U.S.
prices to be down for TiO2 in the back half of the year versus the first half of the year? We're -- as I said in my earlier comments we're in discussion right now on TiO2 pricing here in North America with our suppliers.
And at this point I don't have any further commentary on the outcomes.
They're still undecided.
And the next question comes from Jeff Zekauskas JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Are there any constraints on share repurchase following Reverse Morris Trust transaction? And if there are do they last for I don't know 2 years? Or are there no constraints? Jeff this is Dave Navikas.
So there are -- Jeff because of the need that we have to maintain the tax-free status of the transaction and the distribution of at least 50.1% of the newly merged company stock to PPG shareholders there are some complicated tax rules for dealing with equity transactions during the 2-year period leading up to the closing of this transaction.
And given that we're starting at the 50.5% threshold we've got a very small cushion for any of our shares to be taken out of this calculation.
So on advice of counsel because of that close margin we won't be engaging any share repurchase from now until we close the transaction either late this year or in the first quarter of next.
Research Division</strong> I don't think I perfectly followed you.
So over the next 2-year period does this transaction mean that you're really inhibited in what you can repurchase further? There's only an issue Jeff between now and when the transaction closes.
Once the transaction closes we'll be able to continue to buy back stock at that time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly your sales were flat to down year-over-year.
And your cost of sales was also flat to down and your volumes overall didn't grow.
So does that mean that there really wasn't much raw material inflation that you felt in the quarter since your cost of goods sold went down a little bit? The other complicating factor in there Jeff is currency conversion and cost of sales went down in part because the weakened currencies abroad and we brought those back.
And then that affected basically every line of the income statement.
We did still see on an inflationary perspective somewhere in the 3% to 5% inflation range versus last year which was fairly consistent with the first quarter for coatings raw material input costs.
And the next question we have comes from Don Carson Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Chuck in the first quarter your strong U.S.
architectural volumes suggested  that you were taking share particularly at the big box and I know you had some tough comps given the ramp-up of Olympic ONE.
But is that a correct observation that you're taking share at the big box? And maybe you can just comment on trends in your other architectural distribution channels in the U.S.
Well Don as you said in the second quarter of last year we did have a pipeline fill for Olympic ONE.
So I would say that it is difficult for us to determine exactly what the share position has been for us in the channels.
We haven't seen all of the reports out.
I would say that as we looked -- this year we've had a very strong exterior stain year.
We've seen volume recovery in every channel.
So we're up mid-single digits in terms of volume in our channels -- all our channels if you exclude this pipeline fill for Olympic ONE in -- at Lowe's or in the national account channel.
So we feel we had good volume growth.
We haven't seen everything out there yet in terms of our customers and some of our competitors.
So I would say it's too early for us to comment but we have seen a nice volume improvement.
The business is I think showing some good momentum and we're pleased with the pace of our performance here in the architectural business.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And how big a part has Olympic ONE been? What percentage would that be of your Lowe's business now? And do you think in this market there's still a shift down in price point and that that's benefiting an Olympic ONE given how it's positioned versus some of those competitors? Well we wouldn't comment on how volume is going between price points or we just feel that Olympic ONE has been well received by both our direct customers and the consumers.
They're seeing the value in the product and the way it's been positioned and marketed.
We think it's a great can of paint and so I would say that right now it's clearly a strong positive for our business.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And then just switching to one of your smaller businesses on packaging.
We've heard of some weakness in Europe.
If you can just comment how that business is there.
And are you gaining share in your North American packaging business given some of the new products you've come out with? For us again share on a short-term basis is harder for us to track in this business.
I would say that if you looked at regionally for packaging coatings the strongest region by far is the Asian so our Asian business in particular China.
Europe overall has not been as strong.
We haven't seen volume growth there.
But again one of the big development opportunities is the BPA non-intend or BPA-free coatings in our food and beverage can businesses.
And here we think we're making excellent progress in terms of our products and their qualification and I think this will be an opportunity for us to grow the packaging coatings space here in the near term and in the years to come because we're really providing a solution now for our customers because many of the consumers are more concerned about BPA in food and beverage coatings.
And we are providing a real technological solution which is one of the hallmarks for PPG and one of the things that we feel we do best.
The next question comes from Duffy Fischer of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> If you look at your 3 coatings businesses can you talk about the relative differences in those businesses what we should expect kind of from incremental margins on a new dollar of volume-based sales growth? Let me try to answer that Duffy.
The businesses that have right now the heavier fixed costs load would be the architectural businesses.
They have store network.
That's a bigger fixed cost as opposed to some of our industrial businesses.
Obviously some of our best businesses which we have said historically have been aerospace auto refinish they're higher margins.
We continue to argue for a solid incremental margin on that additional sales dollar.
So those would be the -- right now those would be the businesses with the most opportunity for incremental sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you comment on the strength or weakness you're seeing in the European auto industry in particular? For us European OEM production was the weakest end-use market or region.
It's both the weakest end-use market in Europe but it was also the weakest region and really the biggest decline.
So we were looking at mid- to high-single digit declines in automotive production in Europe.
That wasn't in every country or among every producer and clearly the Germans had showed more strength than the non-German-based producers.
We had some markets in addition to Germany that were stronger Russia and the U.K.
But we saw weakness in what we would call southern Europe and the majority of the declines in the OEM build rates were among let's call them the mid-tier or the middle market producers in Europe.
But certainly it was a very weak market in the first and second quarter of this year.
If I could just append to that even though Europe was weak for auto OEM globally that was one of our strongest markets for the company because of the strong growth in the U.S.
and strong growth that Chuck mentioned in Asia.
So those 2 have more than offset the European weakness.
The next question we have comes from Nils Wallin CLSA.
Research Division</strong> First is really on Europe.
It seems like volumes are -- volume declines are accelerating and I'm curious to know whether you believe in the third or fourth quarter we will see that acceleration continue or you -- we're kind of at the bottom here and it will abate.
But what are you seeing so far this quarter? And what is your expectation for the remainder of the year in terms of European volumes? Well we saw in many of our markets including the auto OEM market that we just talked about that the second quarter was as weak or actually slightly weaker than the first quarter.
The third quarter is a little more problematic especially at this time of the summer to determine what are the actual trends.
You got vacation season in July and August can be difficult months to gauge volume trends.
So right now we feel it's too early to say.
But we do not feel with the information that we have that these volume declines are accelerating from what we saw in a fairly weak second quarter.
But we'll be in a better position to follow these trends in Europe as we get into September and October.
But we have not seen any change for the worse in this early part of the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In terms of volumes in your architectural business I don't -- I apologize if I missed this.
Did you say that across all the channels it was relatively the same in North America your company stores your independent distributors and in the third -- and in the big box? Is that true? Yes we said that with the exception of the pipeline fill we had last year with the new product introduction in the national accounts channel.
But excluding that volume trends were similar across the channels.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now kind of more of a strategic question.
Obviously this nice acquisition that you announced today when you look at the reconstituted PPG in the future how do you -- one of the areas relative to some of your competitors seems to be as much of a greater exposure on the retail side in architectural.
Is there any interest in bulking that up once the transaction is complete or at least changing the mix there? Well I should clarify what we announced was actually more of a divestiture than an acquisition.
Research Division</strong> Sorry sorry.
My apologies.
In terms of our channel strategy if you look on a global basis we have a strong store and dealer network in Europe.
And there with volume trends -- we're committed to the channel.
It's been as you've seen.
Our results have been we think very good under what have been difficult economic circumstances so good performance there.
So we're still committed to the -- to that store channel and our relationships with the independent dealers here in North America.
We are participating in all 3 channels.
We think that there are customers that are best served in each one of these channels that we participate in and that we would -- we expect to continue our participation and growth in all 3 channels here in North America.
And that's the end of today's question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call...
No no Andrew.
We still have time.
The next question that we have is from Ghansham Panjabi of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Going back to the architectural EMEA business did the wet weather in Europe have any impact on your business any measurable impact? I know it's affected other industries and apparently it has been a very very wet summer across northern Europe.
Just curious if it had any impact on you.
Well we think that the weather in Europe has kind of been the reverse of what we've experienced here with all this hot dry weather here.
They have had a colder rainier summer.
We think it may have had some impact although arguably we've probably seen more of an impact in Europe from just the challenging economic conditions.
But weather may have been a factor in terms of some of the volume weakness that we have.
But it's really difficult for us to determine that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in your prepared comments you cited the Argentinian import policy change by the government there.
Can you just expand on that and how it impacted your auto refinish business? Well in Argentina for those of you who haven't followed it they have changed a number of their economic policies.
And in fact if you're bringing in material into Argentina now you need an import license.
Previously you had that  southern cone of South America that was operating as a free-trade zone so in our businesses we had focused many of our production and manufacturing activities in Brazil.
And we were let's call it a net importer into Argentina across many of our businesses.
We have one manufacturing facility in Argentina but by and large in refinish in particular we were a net importer.
And with these new government policies then you had to apply for an import license so that had the effect in the second quarter of really slowing things down because you had to take the additional step then of asking for in effect permission to bring in goods from outside of Argentina whether it was Brazil or outside of South America.
And that delay in approvals especially with the rapid change of the policy I think a lot of manufacturers were caught offguard.
And I think the government was initially not prepared to handle the volume of requests.
So we saw in the second quarter our volumes declined especially in those businesses like refinish where we were bringing in most of the material from outside the country.
What has happened subsequently here in July over the last few weeks I think the government is catching up now with a lot of the permitting requests.
We are getting approvals now and we see that balancing out over the coming quarters.
So we think that it will not have the same negative impact that we certainly saw in the second quarter for our Argentinian business.
And the next question comes from Ivan Marcuse KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Most of them have been answered and you may have already answered this one.
But in the second quarter what were your raw materials up on a year-over-year basis? Ivan they were up between 3% and 5% which again was a trend that we saw in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great and then if you -- looking at your China business.
I know it's relatively small on the architectural side.
Did you see -- is construction over there getting worse or is it about the same as it has been on a sequential basis the last couple of quarters? Or has there been any sort of maybe signs that it is getting better? We have not seen -- again we're a very small player through a joint venture in Italy.
You're saying that was China or...
Research Division</strong> Yes China sorry.
In China we are again a small player.
We saw things stabilize for our business but because we are relatively small I'm not sure that you can take trends in our business to be an overall indicator.
But what we see generally is that there's not any significant improvement in volumes in the construction industry in China.
In fact as we look at some of our other industrial businesses that touch on construction markets those have been -- they continued weak in the second quarter and we did not see any improvement as we went through that first half of the year.
And the next question we have comes from John Roberts Buckingham Research.
The glass segment had up 4% volume and since fiberglass was down was the flat glass business up upper-single digits? The flat glass business did improve over the second quarter of last year.
We saw however weakness in our fiberglass business now in 2 specific areas.
Remember this is more of a global business than our flat glass business which is North American commercial construction-related.
So we had some weakness in fiberglass in our European region.
And also we participate in a joint venture in Asia that is primarily a printed circuit board into the electronics market and there we did see weakness in the electronics or consumer electronics space that affected our fiberglass business in addition to that European weakness.
Still on that Chuck I'm just thinking if flat glass had volume that was up let's say upper-single digits perhaps and natural gas costs were down a lot year-over-year for the flat glass business I would have thought it would have had more earnings leverage to offset the fiberglass weakness.
John the volumes -- just to finish the volume story.
Part of those volume gains for our flat glass business were selling into solar and that is a jagged type of -- still a jagged type of end market.
There's inventory fleshed out and then picked up.
We did have more solar sales part of that's a little bit of market share gain.
The gas cost was fairly comparable sequentially down a little bit year-over-year but they're not as big as a gas consumer as our commodity chemical businesses.
So that would have -- did have a positive impact but not as much as you would expect from like our chemical business.
The next question we have is from Laurence Alexander from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Walker on for Laurence.
I guess first have you seen any indication of slowing in auto OEM globally? And just broadly can you talk to your level of confidence in growth in that end market? We're still seeing growth globally.
Again we were up some 5% globally.
We still see good strength here in North America as we've been talking about.
Japan is rebounding from the tsunami effects of the second quarter of last year.
China although it's not the double-digit growth that we've seen over the last few years we're up 5% to 7% and sales have been solid in China.
Europe is the weakest link and we've talked about mid- to higher-single digit declines in the European automotive production.
And I would -- we haven't seen any deterioration from what's arguably a fairly weak level.
And in South America the volumes have weakened there as well.
That's not the biggest market.
And if you look at Mexico they're up significantly because they're more tied to the North American production and they're really participating in this plus-20% kind of growth that we've seen.
So I would say overall we still feel good about the automotive OEM market with the caveat that we've got a couple of weak regions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just broadly to the segment Industrial Coatings can you talk about your visibility there in terms of how are customers feeling about their backlogs? I would say in general Industrial Coatings is a fairly broad-based reporting segment in terms of end-use markets.
So automotive we've -- automotive parts that are part of industrial they will track what we've just talked about in OEM production.
We see some recovery in kind of the industrial production indicators and some markets though tied to construction outside of North America.
So all the construction-related markets for -- including coil and extrusion for industrial in North America are pretty solid but outside fairly weak.
Consumer electronics has been weaker in Asia.
That's primarily an Asian story.
So it is a mix with again more of a regional flavor with things in North America working pretty well to varying degrees across the different end-use markets.
And outside of North America then you get into just about everything and Europe is weaker to some degree.
Asia it's mixed by end-use market so it just depends.
And industrial probably touches almost every end-use market that we participate in.
And so I would say those trends are confirmed for that business as well as overall for the company.
And the next question we have comes from Dmitry Silversteyn from Longbow Research.
A couple of questions in the businesses that haven't been talked about yet.
You mentioned in your press release and in your prepared remarks about inventory correction in the Optical segment causing that division to deliver not quite a strong result as it has in the past.
Has that inventory correction run its base? And what do you expect for growth on the other side of the correction? Usually when people correct inventories it's because they overestimated the growth rate of their markets and now they're trying to rightsize it.
Should we expect growth in the other side of the correction assuming it's over this quarter to be somewhat slower than it's been in the recent quarters? Yes if we -- I would just clarify the question in the terms that we didn't see as much sales growth in that business unit.
But from an overall profitability and margin performance they had a very strong second quarter in Optical and Specialty Materials.
In the Optical business again some weaker volume and currency trends were working against the business in markets like Europe or even in South America.
We think that there is caution in the customer base again focused on Europe and some of the other markets where the volume trends probably are going to -- the growth we think will be lower as we try to get through some of these more challenging economic conditions in some of the regions.
So I would say that we may continue to have for a short period of time maybe another quarter or so of reduced growth expectations.
But we still feel good about the business and the other segments in specialty materials including our precipitated silica business.
The optical materials business and the Teslin inorganic printing material business had very solid quarters as well so they were key contributors to the overall performance of that segment.
That's helpful Chuck.
Thanks a lot for the color.
Second question.
On the automotive market -- automotive OEM market particularly in the U.S.
there have been some headlines about manufacturers perhaps taking shorter downtimes this summer or in some cases may be eliminating them in certain plants to keep up with what you've described and what certainly we're seeing as a pretty robust demand in the market.
Will that result in sort of diminished seasonality that you would typically see between the second and third quarter? Or is kind of the European deceleration going to overwhelm that and we should expect sort of a normal seasonality second to third quarter? I think we should -- you should expect normal seasonality.
I think you described it correctly.
We're going to see more strength here in North America probably a little less strength just from a seasonal standpoint not from an overall market standpoint in Europe because of the vacation shutdowns.
But I don't think you're going to see a marked deviation in trend in the business.
Fair enough.
And then finally in your comments about the Industrial Coatings business -- or actually I think it was about coatings in general for the second half of the year.
You talked about seeing some raw material environment being more benign and then you referred to selective price increases.
I'm just trying to understand given that demand is not particularly robust with the exception of 1 or 2 channels and geographies and you don't experience the raw material pressure what would be the justification and how do you think customers will receive price increase announcement in the second half of the year? Or is this going to be just in markets that are roaring and the supply is tight and you just have sort of the power to raise prices? I would think that my remarks are more tied to price increases that have -- that reflect the earlier raw material inflation that we experienced.
And again as we've commented our prices today here in the third quarter our raw material prices are higher on average than they were at the beginning of the year.
So that there is still -- we see some stability there and we are still trying to recapture in some markets or regions the raw material price increases that we experienced in 2011 or before and also in the first half of this year.
But is it reasonable to expect these price actions to be successful given that your customers are looking at the propylene price chart same as you are and the TiO2 price chart same as you are and maybe dragging their feet for another month and then maybe they don't have to pay those prices? I think Dmitry that's -- we certainly call them selective pricing and again there -- I think you described it right.
There are markets where we feel there is opportunity to recapture some of this inflation.
The next question comes from Gregg Goodnight UBS.
Research Division</strong> Your currency headwind in the second quarter how is it looking thus far in third quarter? What is your expectation? Well part of the headwind in the second quarter Gregg really reflects the strength of the euro and Latin American currencies last year so the comparable period was extremely difficult.
And then I think the euro -- our euro conversion rate in the second quarter of 2011 was 1.44.
I think we ended this quarter like 1.28.
The conversion in the third quarter came down last year so the comparable period is not as difficult.
That will lessen if all things were equal that will lessen the impact on a year-over-year basis.
Sequentially it's fairly comparable.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Second question I saw where you recently got approval from Indian authorities to expand this -- your JV Asian Paints Limited.
Could you give us some help in terms of sizing the opportunity and what would be the timing of an expansion if you decided to move forward with it? Well we've had a long-term joint venture with Asian Paints.
It's called Asian PPG.
That is primarily participates in the automotive OEM refinish and selected segments of the industrial business.
The announcement with Asian Paints is now we're going to have 2 joint ventures: one a majority-owned or controlled venture of PPG primarily with the automotive refinish and industrial segment; and another a majority-owned and controlled Asian Paints joint venture that'll be more in the distribution of protective and marine coatings and light industrial.
But what you're going to see different is we will begin this quarter the third quarter in consolidating the sales from the newly formed or majority-owned PPG joint venture.
It won't have a material effect on the earnings because we've been reporting 50% of the earnings from the joint ventures in previous years.
But you'll see some growth in our sales line now as we consolidate those sales of the new joint venture.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question if I could.
True to your word on investor day you have stepped up your activity in licensing TiO2 technology with Argex in Canada and your recent Chinese announcement.
My question to you is what do you think the likelihood is that a new grassroots TiO2 plant based on your technology will happen in the next 5 years? Not naming any specific potential licensors but what do you think the probability of that is? Well I'd hate to speculate on what the probability is.
But obviously in the case of Argex we think they have a viable technology.
We've been working with them to validate the technology and it's used on our products.
They have already access to the mining rights for these materials.
I would say given a longer time frame like 5 years I would say that is -- I would give that a higher level of probability.
In the case of potential Chinese TiO2 producers I would say that these plants require a lot of investment a lot of technology.
But I would -- as we've seen over -- the growth in China across a broad array of industrial commodities and we participated in what we think is a tremendous growth story in China in industrial markets.
But I would not discount the probability of -- what are now a number of TiO2 producers in China albeit primarily in the sulfate grades.
But I would not discount their ability to develop the chloride technology in the coming years and get into production within the kind of time frame that you're talking.
The next question we have comes from P.J.
Juvekar from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Chuck what kind of same-store sales growth are you seeing in your stores business? And how does that compare -- how does that volume growth compare with your big boxes business? Yes as I said earlier P.J.
our volume growth in the second quarter was comparable across all 3 channels.
We've talked about mid-single digit kind of growth with the exception of the let's call it the pipeline fill last year in the second quarter in the national accounts channel.
So I would say we saw a fairly consistent growth across the channels here in North America.
Research Division</strong> So you're not seeing the contractor business growing faster than the DIY business currently? I would say as I -- again we saw comparable volume growth across the channels.
It's still -- I would say I haven't seen a significant deviation in the trends.
Obviously we go through -- we go to market in all the end-use markets and the channels and so I would say it's been fairly consistent.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And lastly how much Chinese TiO2 are you currently buying? Our total spend P.J.
it's high-single and low-double digit percentages.
The next question comes from Saul Ludwig North Coast Research.
Which segments will benefit from the $40 million to $50 million in cost savings in the second half of the year? Saul we had in our last quarterly call a schedule that broke that out for the second half of 2012 and also for all of 2013.
We didn't replicate that here but it's available on our website.
Okay.
Looking at this sequentially normally you have lower earnings in your third quarter than you do in the second quarter and that's been a pattern for most years.
And you've talked about the sort of volume trends that you're expecting in the third quarter to be comparable to what you've seen in the second quarter.
But when we look toward the back end of the year it sounds like a you're going to have the cost savings in the back end of the year that you didn't really have in the second quarter and that your price-to-raws relationship because of stability in pricing and in -- stability in raws and increases in pricing should be somewhat more favorable in the back end of the year than it was in the first half of the year.
So would that suggest that the seasonal pattern of earnings might be a little different maybe more favorable than what it has been on a historical basis? So the most pronounced impact on earnings is just the volume movements among the quarters.
So if we're not buying product regardless of the price as it is we're not getting the benefit.
So I agree with the general theory that you outlined that we should see some more favorable economics in the second half versus the first half but we still need volume to apply to those economics.
Okay and then finally Dyrup contributed about $60 million in revenue in the quarter and we are earlier discussing about the improvement in earnings in EMEA in the second quarter.
Did Dyrup contribute $6 million $7 million $8 million of EBIT in the quarter that obviously you didn't have a year ago? Yes that's a good round number so...
The next question comes from Bill Young Chemspeak.
Many of the economists and certainly the data collectors have indicated that the housing market seems to have bottomed here in the U.S.
and starts are improving.
And I realize an awful lot of the architectural goes into existing units.
But are there any signs on the horizon from your perspective that would be consistent with these observations? Or how long would it take for PPG to see the impact? I'm not sure I understand exactly Bill.
But as you referenced the repair and the remodeling part of the paint market in architectural is by far the biggest share of the overall volume and I think you are seeing some improvements there.
The indicators have been by and large positive and they've stayed that way most of the year.
I think initially in the first quarter we said "Well there is some weather impact " but most of the indicators have still stayed positive.
The biggest indicator is sales of existing homes or existing home resales.
Those have been positive so I think that is a good indicator for the architectural market here.
We've seen some year-over-year growth in new home construction albeit on some very low levels so that's a positive.
Commercial construction on the new OE -- let's call it new commercial construction it's been a weaker market.
We participate in that both on the coatings side and also in our flat glass business.
So that has not really ramped up as much but overall commercial construction we think is going to lag a little bit this improvement in residential.
So I would agree with you most of the signs are favorable.
And it should be a good news for us and that's the way we feel although it's not -- this is not a straight line up for us.
And I think we're going to see slow but steady improvement over the next few years in this business.
And I would now like to turn the call back over to Chuck Bunch for closing remarks.
Andrew I'm doing the closing remarks.
I just want to thank everybody for their time in the call today.
And if you'll need further questions please contact me in Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2012 PPG Industries Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Shaquana and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Mr.
Vince Morales Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Shaquana.
Good afternoon.
This is Vince Morales Vice President of Investor Relations for PPG Industries.
Welcome to PPG's third quarter 2012 financial teleconference.
Joining me from PPG on the call today is Chuck Bunch Chairman of the Board Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Navikas Senior Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
Our comments relate to the financial information released on Thursday October 18 2012.
I will remind everyone that approximately one hour ago we posted detailed commentary and accompanying presentation slides on the Investor Center at our website ppg.com.
Those slides are also available on the webcast site for this call.
They provide additional support to the opening comments Chuck will make momentarily.
Following Chuck's perspective on the company's results for the quarter we will move directly to Q&amp;A.
Both the prepared commentary and discussion during this call may contain forward-looking statements reflecting the company's current view about future events and their potential effect on PPG's operating and financial performance.
These statements involve uncertainties and risks which may cause actual results to differ.
The company is under no obligation to provide subsequent updates to these forward-looking statements.
This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures the company has provided in the Appendix of the presentation materials which are also available on our website reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the mostly -- most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
For additional information please refer to PPG's filings with the SEC.
Now let me introduce PPG Chairman and CEO Chuck Bunch.
Thank you Vince and welcome everyone.
Our earnings growth continued during the third quarter as we posted our ninth consecutive quarterly earnings record.
Our adjusted earnings per share of $2.24 were up 14% versus last year and were up despite continued variation in regional economic performance.
North America remained our strongest region with improved demand in most businesses led by automotive OEM coatings gains.
European volumes declined versus the prior year.
However the trend improved in comparison with the second quarter year-over-year results due to less customer inventory destocking.
Emerging region demand was mixed by end-use market ending flat in the aggregate.
Currency translation remained a negative to sales and earnings.
We were pleased to deliver higher earnings in each region for the quarter and year-to-date despite the mixed regional economic performance and negative currency translation impact.
This was aided by our total coatings segment earnings which grew by 20% versus the prior year as local currency sales growth was supplemented by continued operational execution.
Earnings in our remaining segments were lower year-over-year including the impact from lower optical product sales due to customer inventory management initiatives stemming from the upcoming introduction of our new Transitions Generation VII product and lower optical consumer end-market growth rates.
We also delivered strong cash performance with year-to-date cash generation up over 33% and cash and short-term investments totaled $2 billion at the end of the quarter.
Our excellent financial performance in the quarter and year-to-date is a direct result of our aggressive operational execution and further illustrates the benefits of our broad global business portfolio and the effectiveness of our ongoing cash deployment.
Looking to the fourth quarter we are heading into a seasonally slower period in most end-use markets and expect little change in the inconsistent performance of economies outside North America.
We also anticipate measured economic growth in North America and expect we will continue to benefit from some of the highest growth sectors this year such as automotive OEM and aerospace.
We will remain focused on aggressive management within the regions to maximize our financial performance and we expect to benefit further from the continued implementation of restructuring actions.
In addition we have considerable financial flexibility and we continue to pursue acquisitions in a disciplined manner as a primary means of deploying our strong cash position for earnings accretion.
Finally we remain on schedule to complete the separation of our Commodity Chemicals business and the merger of that business with Georgia Gulf with closing expected to occur by early next year.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Now operator would you please give instructions and open the phone lines for questions? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy representing Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could provide us with an update on both the timing of the transaction with Georgia Gulf as well as your latest thoughts on the relative merits of split-off versus spinoff? Yes I can Kevin.
It's good to have you on the line.
Right now as I'd described in my notes we anticipate a closing by the first quarter of 2013.
We have several items that are still in process.
And we have completed one antitrust review here in the U.S.
We're waiting for final SEC filings to be completed by both companies.
We're waiting for an IRS tax ruling and similarly in Canada.
We have also the Georgia Gulf shareholder vote which we anticipate later in the fourth quarter November or December.
So we're still on pace we think.
We haven't had any surprises so far and -- as we've moved through these items so I would say we're still on schedule.
Our thinking is still in favor of the split and that would be our recommendation today.
We are obviously monitoring the financial markets as we go through and we continue to be I think buoyed by the strength overall in the response to the potential transaction the performance of ours as well as Georgia Gulf shares.
So at this point we are still pointing towards a split and believe that is the best avenue for PPG and our shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Great.
As a second and final question would you provide an update on your outlook for raw material costs and perhaps touch on TiO2 pigment as well as acrylics where it looks like there could be some nascent upward pressure following an outage in Japan? Just would appreciate your updated thoughts on that for the end of the year here.
TiO2 costs as we look at them in the third quarter of 2012 we're still up versus the third quarter of 2011 although the trend here in 2012 as we've moved through the years has been for lower prices for TiO2 in all the regions.
Pricing for the fourth quarter is still under discussion.
But the overall inflationary trends for raw materials I'd say have been very moderate here this year.
And I would say that in the acrylic chain although there was a lot of publicity around the explosion in Japan and the plant outage we've been watching the acrylic chain.
Propylene pricing that has been I would say moderate.
We haven't returned to some of the higher prices in propylene that we've seen earlier this year.
So I would say that right now we are not seeing any price spikes in the acrylic chain at this point here for the second half of 2012.
Your next question comes from the line of David Begleiter representing Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Chuck on the same track can you talk about your pricing discipline in the face of some lower raw material costs? Have you been forced to lower any prices? And can you actually quantify the gap that expanded -- that occurred or benefited you guys in Q3 as well as the drop in your selling prices that did not? Well I would say that we're still facing raw material inflationary pressure over certainly the last 18 months or a little longer.
We haven't fully recaptured that.
So as I described in TiO2 we've seen a moderation of the increases; in fact some modest decreases here this year.
But overall we've seen more stability in terms of our raw material input costs and pricing has remained stable during the course of this year.
Vince did you want...
Yes Dave I just wanted to add that in several of our businesses in 2011 we absorbed a lot of inflation without the ability to push through price until this year.
So over the last 18 or 20 months as Chuck has mentioned we're still in a recapture mode and that recapture continues into the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And Chuck can you discuss your efforts to reduce your usage of TiO2? I believe you had a 4% to 6% target for this year.
Yes and we're still on track.
Through the first 3 quarters of this year we were tracking at a little over 3%.
So we feel that for the full year we will be into certainly the 4% to 6% range.
Probably as we roll up all the numbers it'll be kind of on the low end of that range or a little over 4% but certainly within our target.
And we feel we still have opportunities as we go into 2013 and beyond to continue the more productive use of TiO2 in our formulation.
Research Division</strong> And lastly can you discuss potential share buybacks with the $2 billion of cash on the balance sheet? How much of that cash is trapped overseas Chuck? How much do you need to run the company something on that track? Well we anticipate as you see the -- our cash balance was around $2 billion here at the end of the third quarter.
Fourth quarter is usually a cash generator for us plus we have the $900 million that will be coming over the next few months from the split off of the Commodity Chemicals business.
So if you think that we need $400 million to $500 million to run the company we are probably sitting on in excess of $2 billion in terms of opportunity to either engage in share buybacks or also M&amp;A activity.
We're currently out of the share buyback market because of this Reverse Morris Trust transaction.
We would intend to initiate modest share buybacks at the conclusion of the transaction.
But we are keeping some of our balance sheet strength let's call it as we look at the acquisition opportunities.
We announced one yesterday as you saw in our Industrial Coatings space Spraylat.
But as we go through 2013 and beyond if we cannot find attractive acquisition candidates to deploy this let's say excess cash we will become more aggressive in share buybacks.
And we have a good portion of this $2.5 billion in cash here in North America.
We have -- all of the cash from the Georgia Gulf transaction will be here.
And so we think that I think 3/4 of the cash balance that we have is here in North America and available for any of our uses not only share buybacks and M&amp;A but also dividend payments or other payments here to any of our constituencies in North America.
And your next question comes from the line of John Nulty (sic) [McNulty] representing Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is Abhi Rajendran calling in for John.
A couple of quick questions.
So auto has been a relative bright spot for you guys.
How should we think about trends in the auto OEM business on a regional basis looking to 4Q and are there any customer shutdowns or any other factors that we need to consider? The global trends for automotive OEM production are still good.
And I think you will see I think a continuation of the trends that we've outlined here in the first 3 quarters of this year.
One is continued strength in North America.
We have good sales momentum.
Inventory levels are moderate.
And even the numbers in September good sales levels more production coming to North America from outside so less imports into the North American market.
So I would expect the North American market to stay positive especially on the production side.
Although I think you will see over the next year or more as the effects of the Japanese tsunami are moderated you're not going to see this 20% necessarily growth rate during 2013 that we've seen this year.
Europe remains quite weak.
The first 9 months in 2012 we've had high single-digit declines in production in Europe.
We had I think a similar if not quite as negative production in the third quarter but it's usually a difficult quarter in Europe to determine actual trends because of the vacation period.
But right now we haven't seen a turnaround in Europe and we're not expecting one as we move into 2013.
Chinese market a big one for us has remained quite positive 7% kinds of growth rates still healthy.
And India which has struggled over the last few quarters with growth rates now in the low single digits.
We think there we -- there's more time needed to turn the -- some of those economic headwinds in India.
So at this point as we look to the first half of next year I would say a continuation of some of the same trends overall.
Despite the weakness in Europe this is a very positive story.
I think we're doing quite well in our business and I think you're also seeing from PPG here is well positioned in leadership positions with all of the major car manufacturers good regional strength benefiting from some of the restructuring that we announced earlier this year.
And also I think a story that we haven't emphasized as much is what I would call improved localization of our production.
We have -- the coatings businesses as you know are not highly capital intensive.
Our capital expenditures have actually been modest over the last few years but they've been pointed at positioning us especially in automotive and in our Industrial Coatings market to localize our production capacity.
So the investments that we've made over the last couple of years in China in South Korea in Mexico which are still strong markets we are really benefiting from the investments that we've made where we've localized resin production or waterborne coatings as examples.
So we're benefiting there as well from I would call some of these strategic capital expenditures of the last couple of years and that's driving very good performance in our Industrial Coatings segment even though overall growth rates are moderate.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then a quick follow-up on the Spraylat acquisition.
How should we think about the margins of the addition versus your Industrial Coatings segment margins and then how should we think about potential incremental earnings looking out to 2013? Well we would hope certainly the business today that we acquired does not have -- that it is a positive in terms of earnings and cash flow.
But margins return on sales are not at our overall average for our Industrial Coatings segment.
So we feel with -- it will be an accretive acquisition in 2013.
We expect to close by the end of 2012.
So we are looking for accretion in 2013 but I would say we probably need 18 months or so to get the full benefit and to see those margins being comparable to what we have in our Industrial Coatings segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then last quick one if I may.
In the optical parts so there's several moving parts in the business in the fourth quarter including the year-ago flooding effect some continued inventory management and maybe some new product pipeline fill.
I guess after the last few quarters of decline in this business can we expect some growth on a year-over-year basis in the fourth quarter? What we're going to see in the fourth quarter is I would say a modest growth in our Optical business.
If we -- when we looked at our retail sales out the door this is not our direct sales to customers but the sales of Transitions at the retail level they were still positive in the third quarter at let's call it lower single-digit growth.
So we did have at-market growth for Transitions.
There was as we discussed in our note inventory management and destocking on the part of our customers.
We think that this will be the quarter with the largest impact from that but I'm not sure that it is entirely finished because there's still inventory of our current generation product that's out there and we'll start to see it -- towards the end of this quarter and certainly in the first quarter of next year some -- the start of shipments for our Generation VII product.
And your next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch representing Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on the whole auto thing because I think even more importantly than what the market's doing is you seem to be articulating a viewpoint that you're gaining a fair amount of market share here.
And Chuck I heard you talk about localization of production.
You mentioned technology.
I was wondering what exactly are you attributing that market share gains to? And to some extent could it be a side benefit if you will of the DuPont performance coatings sales process that may have driven a bit more into your arms? Well I would attribute our performance to I think good work over the last few years.
We do have a new-generation electrocoat product which has been very well received by our customers.
We've been well positioned with what our -- some of our new waterborne basecoats and some of our new more efficient total coatings systems.
So in China as an example we're doing very well.
We've been fortunate to be positioned with some of the strongest customers here in North America.
And so I would attribute it to good strong execution.
Obviously the earnings are benefiting from the localization and some of the restructuring.
And I think some of these decisions especially on the OEM side are longer-term but I think we've been consistent.
We’ve -- this is our core business.
We're committed to it and I think our customers are giving us I think a strong sense of commitment in return.
So we feel pretty good about our current position and certainly the results speak for themselves.
They've been great.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And if I could just ask on the restructuring charge -- I'm sorry the savings that you're seeing.
You indicated that in the back half of the year you anticipate $40 million to $50 million in savings the back half.
Half of the back half of the year is over with the third quarter.
So where do you think we -- where do you think you stand with respect to expectations on Q4? And I believe we're going to get the whole $140 million by the -- or at least beyond that run rate by the middle of next year.
Where do you stand on that? Could there be upside? Could there be downside et cetera? If you could just expand upon that that'd be great.
Yes Frank this is Dave.
I would tell you that in the third quarter we got maybe 35% to 40% of the back-half savings so the rest we would be anticipating coming in the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And then...
And then in next year the $70 million to $80 million that we had indicated previously we're still good with that forecast.
Our actions are generally on schedule.
The things that we need to get done are being accomplished and we expect to see those savings next year as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right terrific.
So you're talking about a delta of about $15 million sequentially Q3 to Q4 in terms of savings strictly due to that.
And then given the aforementioned comments with respect to raw materials versus selling prices it looks like we're going to see 10 in a row.
We hope.
We don't give guidance Frank.
And your next question comes from the line of Don Carson representing Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Chuck a couple of questions on U.S.
architectural.
You talked about the overall volumes being up but particular strength in your company stores and is that reflecting a shift away from big boxes back to the contractor channel in general or is that just dynamics related to your own sort of store location areas? I would say the third quarter sales growth was moderate and I would say the volumes were up slightly lower single digits.
Again stronger in the stores -- in our stores network.
But I would say that we did see on what I would call the national account or big box side they're watching inventories closely.
We don't know exactly how that is -- that's going to be positioned here for the fourth quarter or into 2013.
But certainly our customers there are mindful of inventory conditions.
We've been tracking -- or it's a little less clear on the out-the-door sales.
We get a – we have a better visibility with our own stores.
But I would say there seems to be some inventory management going on with some of our customers there.
But I would say that at this point the volume trends are positive and we would say that for all the channels but it may be more on the inventory side that you're seeing the differences.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And speaking of inventory we've seen about a $0.13 per pound price drop in TiO2.
Are you -- admittedly it's a slow seasonal quarter for architectural paint but are you drawing down your TiO2 inventories further in anticipation of more price reductions next year? And then a just clarification on your TiO2 reduction comment of 4% to 6%.
Is that total TiO2 or is that high-quality chloride product and part of what you're doing is substituting the low-grade Chinese TiO2 into your formulation? No that’s -- that would be total TiO2.
That's not substitution of sulfate for chloride.
That's not in that calculation.
And as I mentioned in an earlier question we still are going to hit at least the low end of that target which is a 4% productivity improvement in the usage for our overall TiO2 our formulations.
And on the inventory destocking we probably had more inventory relative to sales early in the year.
But as we've seen supply loosen up and the pricing stabilized we've worked down that inventory.
So I would say now heading into this fourth quarter and into 2013 we have what I would call normal inventory levels for TiO2 so we're not trying to further destock from this level.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Koort representing Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Chuck I seem to recall in the past on Transition rollouts they were more staggered globally.
Is that the same plan this time or is the whole world moving over to the next-gen at the same time? No we're -- this is still going to be staggered.
We're beginning in Europe.
And so this one is not a -- your recollection is correct in that we're still going to stage this regionally beginning in Europe in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then if you could hazard a guess what do you think in Asia or in China specifically industrial growth has been in the last 6 months and what might it be the next 6 months? Industrial growth I would -- if you look at the overall GDP they're talking about 7% to 8% probably in industrial production 5% or so.
And I would say that we're looking for a similar trend going forward.
There was concern as we looked at some of the end-use markets in the second quarter and even beginning in the third quarter.
But here at the end of the third quarter September was a more solid quarter for us in China.
And we think that some of the end-use markets like consumer electronics haven't been that strong.
Most of the construction businesses in China have been weaker than those overall averages.
But in general I would say we saw some pretty solid growth automotive automotive parts automotive aftermarket those were all still quite solid.
And so we think that as you go through this transition at the government level and they get their decisions made on -- the economic stimulus packages and the fact that they've had a little less inflation over some of these latest measuring periods.
So that's going to give them we think a little more flexibility.
So I would say that we're looking for a more of the same.
So solid growth but certainly not at the levels that we saw in 2010 or 2011.
Your next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi representing Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> On the Architectural Coatings-EMEA business volumes down 3% during the quarter quite a bit of an improvement versus 2Q and I guess in line with your guidance but your competitor in the Netherlands has really shown the reverse of that profile with 3Q much worse particularly in Europe and it doesn't look like the trend line has changed into the fourth quarter as well.
Can you help us understand the deviation? Is it a geographic distribution or something else? I'm not sure.
I know Akzo was reporting this morning and we have our board meeting today so I haven't been able to analyze completely what they have been saying.
There is obviously a difference in terms of -- in growth rates or growth declines depending on what regions that you are -- you're competing in.
And we have very little exposure in the South which has been -- that Mediterranean region has been the weakest.
So that I would say that their profile a little bit different than ours and maybe that is what's causing their volume declines to be greater than ours although certainly you know we feel good about the results in light of the volume declines but there is not a lot of strength in the European market anywhere at this time and -- but certainly in the South much weaker.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just going on -- back to the European auto production on Slide 8 where you have the forecast by region et cetera I think it was down 11% forecasted for the fourth quarter basically in line with the trend line for 3Q on a year-over-year basis.
But over the last couple of months we have seen weakness out of Germany in auto sales et cetera that seems to be spreading across Europe.
Chuck just based on your conversations with customers how should we think about the first part of 2013? Well right now we're starting to come up here.
You saw it in the third quarter this third quarter and again now in the fourth quarter of 2012 we're starting to come up against some weaker comparables from 2011.
And the market started weakening in the third quarter of last year.
Fourth quarter was quite weak.
So kind of the year-over-year comparisons although still negative are somewhat easier to make.
The Germans were quite strong at least the export-oriented German luxury manufacturers were still strong through the first quarter.
We haven't seen -- they haven't fallen off a cliff.
The biggest weakness we've seen is in kind of that middle market the middle market manufacturers.
We haven't seen a turnaround yet.
I think the beginning of 2013 is going to be -- in the first half looks to be still weak.
We're going to see if there are government actions that could try to let's say try to make that trend a little less negative.
But we're hunkered down and you've seen our results.
And despite the weakness there we continue to do well and we're hunkered down.
We're watching everything every expense every discretionary item.
We're hitting on all the restructuring targets that -- and automotive was a big part of that.
So we're aware of the conditions and we're responding appropriately.
Your next question comes from the line of Laurence Alexander representing Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
First could you give an update on your thinking about alternative TiO2 supplies in the sense of either encouraging technology distribution in China or the projects up in Canada with I believe it was Argex? Yes we're continuing to pursue these initiatives and opportunities.
As I mentioned earlier the TiO2 pricing although moderating now is still up year-over-year if you look at the third quarter of 2011 and not insignificantly.
So that I think that the trends would say that we're not going to back off our initiatives either on productivity or expanding our supply base or in trying to use our history in manufacturing in the TiO2 business to enable current TiO2 suppliers to improve their capabilities.
We're not backing off any of those initiatives because we've had a few months of stable to slightly lower pricing.
So those are continuing and we feel that they will help to position ourselves and hopefully the entire industry to be in a better supply-demand balance going forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And secondly could you give a update on whether you're seeing any share shifts in the BPA -- due to the shift to BPA-free coatings inside cans? And if share is starting to shift do you have a sense for what timeframe it might be material? Right now all of the – the major suppliers are all trying to qualify BPA-free coatings.
We have seen a lot of activity over the last 18 months more so than -- we've been preparing for this for quite some time.
You're starting to see approvals for PPG and some of the other participants in the market.
We've seen a little bit of a slowdown in terms of our end-use customer schedules for when they would convert to BPA-free coatings.
And I think we're trying to gauge right now when they would be ready to really launch more products into the metal packaging industries.
So right now I would say looks like everyone's -- is ready from a coatings supplier standpoint lots of approvals.
We're saying we're ready to go.
And we're waiting now for confirmation on when these products will actually be used in the marketplace.
And your next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas representing JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> When I look at your Industrial Coatings operating income year-over-year it's up a little bit more than $50 million and that's what your sales are up.
So can you sort of help us understand why the incremental margins are so high and why the incremental performance is so much better in Industrial Coatings than it is in any of your other divisions? Well Jeff it's good to hear from you.
I think what I indicated in some of my earlier comments one we have focused many of our restructuring actions on our Industrial Coatings businesses so you're seeing the benefit there of our restructuring actions and higher volumes as we've seen them in most of the regions.
So our efficiency is improved.
But I think if you recall these comments around localization the single biggest capital spending project last year for PPG was the construction of an electrical resin facility in Zhangjiagang China.
This benefited our Industrial Coatings businesses both automotive and industrial and potentially packaging.
And this really localized resin supply in China.
That helps us to not only meet local demand but avoid tariffs duties freight all of these incidental costs.
The plant came up beautifully.
It's been performing.
We're at capacity there.
And so we are seeing more let's say financial benefits from that investment.
So that's in the emerging markets.
And I think I mentioned that we've done similar things in South Korea in Mexico.
So we have I think positioned our assets in these emerging regions where we've been driving a lot of our growth over the last few years to now be self-sufficient at a lower cost basis.
And it's timely because the U.S.
business as an example was supporting many of these other emerging regions.
So now as the U.S.
and North American growth are coming back our assets here are able to support those businesses and we're more efficient and lower cost in supporting the businesses around the world.
So if you take the effects of restructuring localization and productivity and overall expense controls that's why you're seeing such a nice improvement in terms of earnings going to the bottom line from the sales growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly is it fair to say that going into the fourth quarter there's no business of yours that will have higher sequential pricing? From the third quarter? Research Division</strong> From the third to the fourth.
There's pockets Jeff where we try to get different price at different times of the year.
I would say in general you're accurate.
I wouldn't say exclusively that's correct.
Yes overall I would say that probably is the case.
Your next question comes from the line of Ivan Marcuse representing KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Most of them have been answered.
I just have a couple quick ones.
In the -- once the commodity business is divested where would you expect your tax rate to be going forward in 2013? The tax rate is going to be in the range of I would say 23% to 24%.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then if raw materials sort of stay where they're at today and then going forward into next year would your raw material total basket be still up on pricing year-over-year or would it be -- or would it essentially be flat to down? 2013 if they stay where they at -- where they were at it'd be close to flat Ivan.
Little bit up to close to flat.
And we did see inflation through the first 6 months of this year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then the last question I have is you've mentioned that and I understand there's a big seasonality in your European business but then you also called out Europe being a little bit worse.
Is there going to be a significant impact on the year-over-year or on profitability or would you still sort of eke out a little bit of a profit like you typically do like a 1% or 2% type of margin? Ivan if you look at the Dura business it is more seasonal than the architectural business because of the product array.
So we'll see -- that part of our earnings growth in that segment year-to-date have been this business.
So we'll see some of that benefit.
Some of that benefit will be absent in the fourth quarter.
So we'll see a more decided seasonality impact.
The next question comes from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn representing Longbow Research.
A couple of questions and a lot of them have been answered.
Just revisiting the Optical for a second.
After you get the customers drawing down the inventory and then relaunching with the Generation VII what's your sense of the sort of the underlying market strength particularly since you're starting out in Europe where customers don't have as much a disposable income as they did a couple of years ago.
Should we expect sort of a single-digit ramp-up or something stronger as you get through at least the first couple of quarters of channel sales? Well I would say because of the European market is positive but not strong that certainly a single-digit ramp-up is probably a more appropriate growth rate.
Okay.
And then on the other part of the specialty part of the Optical and Specialty can you just talk a little bit about these other businesses the silanes businesses the stuff that's going into the tire market and the automotive market? What's going on there in terms of demand and pricing and any raw material pressures or lack thereof? The silicas business continues to perform well.
We've seen this year a few regional differences by quarter.
So Europe as we've discussed in the automotive market has been weaker.
North America a little bit better.
But you have in the tire business probably more of an aftermarket.
That's bigger than the OEM side.
So we've seen some differences.
But overall we're -- there's a solid growth.
There's not a lot of raw material pressure in the precipitated silica business.
This is sand soda ash natural gas.
And we have been adding capacity both in Europe and here in North America.
And so we think the business is well positioned in North America.
The OEM business has a lot of momentum.
The aftermarket not quite as strong with miles driven or not quite as strong and the aftermarket has probably not been quite as robust here.
But we think the business is well positioned and poised for continuation of moderate growth if you look at the combination of Europe and North America.
No raw material shocks for us to watch out for; everything is more or less stable in that area.
No raw material shocks.
We think natural gas is going to be stable.
And if you look at the value that -- the biggest value that precipitated silicas bring to the automotive tires is improved rolling resistance and therefore improved mileage or miles per gallon for the vehicles.
And that's still a longer-term trend.
So we think that's very positive with the CAFE standards for the automotive industry here or similar trends in Europe.
So we think there is solid fundamentals for continued improvement in the precipitated silica business.
And right now no we don't see any raw material spikes that would threaten kind of the short-term margins on the business.
Very good.
And switching gears to your Performance Coatings business particularly the 2 sort of longer-cycle businesses that you have there the aerospace business and the marine business.
From the marine business point of view I know you have an order book to look forward to and we knew that this year was not going to be a good year for that business.
As you look out into 2013 and maybe even the second half of 2013 is there sort of a light at the end of the tunnel there? Are we starting to see some positive comps coming our way? Certainly in the first half of 2013 we think the current trends of these double-digit declines in marine OEM builds are going to continue.
In the second half of 2013 we start to see some moderation of that possibly.
We are trying to fill the order book with what I would say would be more of the drilling ships and the natural resource vessels that are under construction in South Korea more than the kind of the ocean-going containerships that are lower value in China.
That's been the more effective sector.
And we're trying to push for what we would call the protective side of protective and marine coatings.
And we think with all the infrastructure spend that's going on around the world the protective markets offer some good opportunities to kind of mitigate the negatives that we see continuing for a while here in the marine business.
Very good.
And then final question on aerospace can you give us an idea of what your lead times are relative to aircraft deliverables? Obviously 787 is now starting to ramp up production and I know you have a big component of -- per plane of your products going in there from window coatings to structural adhesive and coatings on the body.
The carbon market has from what I remember about an 18-month lead time but obviously yours is a little bit more downstream and close to the completion.
So are we looking at 6 to 9 months or sort of a 12-month lead time for your product sales going into the Airbus and Boeing-type markets? Right now we feel that certainly over the next 12 months there's good visibility in terms of commercial aviation completion or construction.
It's a longer lead item.
They don't like to change production schedules in the short term.
So I would say that we still feel good on the commercial aviation side with Boeing and Airbus that the current trends will continue into 2013.
If you start to see declines in the order book going forward you tend to see them making adjustments later in the cycle.
So I would say that if there is more weakness you may see that in 2014 but certainly not in the near term.
There has been -- in some of the other markets they tend to react maybe a little more quickly in some cases general or business aviation.
But we again haven't seen any strong trends there.
Military which is not a big component of -- or market segment for us has been already declining.
But both the OEM and the aftermarket on the commercial side have stayed what we would say is strong.
Your next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar representing Citi.
Research Division</strong> This is Dan Jester sitting in for P.J.
Just one quick question.
Now that we’re seeing better construction and housing data how should we be thinking about new U.S.
paint store openings over the next couple of years? For us we feel that going forward our store count will increase.
So we are now trying to do our planning for 2013 and beyond.
And I think as you know we've stabilized over the last couple of years in this recessionary environment at around 400 stores.
So I would -- I view that as now a floor for us and you will see a higher store count going forward as we continue to see improvement.
And I think that the improvement that we've seen so far has been certainly encouraging but I wouldn't say it's going to be a rocket ride up here.
I think this year certainly the first quarter was very strong with some of the improved weather.
It stayed positive and I think that trend will continue although we don't see the growth rates just gearing up and really requiring an acceleration of our plans for store openings at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Duffy Fischer representing Barclays.
Research Division</strong> When I read through the press release on your use of cash the sentence primary means of deploying our strong cash is going to acquisitions which seems like a more aggressive way you guys are talking about acquisitions now than 3 or 4 years ago.
1 is that true? And then 2 if it is what are you seeing differently now that you would be more aggressive with acquisitions? Are more people raising their hand and willing to sell businesses today? Have multiples come down? Can you kind of just talk about what you're seeing in the acquisition front and maybe across your businesses where you see more fertile ground? Duffy well if you go back 3 or 4 years ago you're talking about 2009 or end of 2008 and we were just starting the Great Recession and we were focused on pretty much hunkering down and getting through this.
So since that time probably as we've come out in 2010 and beyond we've been more optimistic about and also talking more about acquisitions.
We haven't made as many.
We did in the fourth quarter of 2010 we bought Bairun in China.
We closed on 2 earlier this year Dyrup and Colpisa.
And now we've announced this acquisition at Spraylat.
So I would say that -- I think we've been talking about it probably for last 1.5 years or so.
We haven't executed as many but I think now is what you're seeing and especially in some parts of the world where the growth rates aren't as attractive as they were a few years ago and I think probably in many regions whether it was in the emerging regions where for a while they thought these growth rates were going to continue for years or maybe in Europe where they thought the growth declines would be short term and then they'd return to growth and I think you can tell from our comments that it's a more challenging environment.
If you're well positioned you can do well as we're doing.
But I think there's a little more realism on the part of many of these coatings companies or maybe companies more broadly that this reality may be with us for another year or 2 where it's not so easy to be successful.
And I think we've seen a little more realism in terms of what their expectations are on the selling prices.
So I think you're seeing better dialogue between potential buyers and sellers.
We have time for one final question.
Your question comes from the line of Kevin Hovar (sic) [Hocevar] representing Northcoast Research.
I wanted to -- with the split option I know -- I think the initial goal was to get 12.5 million to 13 million share count reduction using the split option.
And based on the current dynamics of the market the stock price of PPG and Georgia Gulf is that still the goal? Is that still the -- attainable or would it might be a little less than that? Yes I would say that it's a little bit less than that.
I would put more in the 11 million 11.5 million share kind of range.
But obviously that's a function of the price of the 2 companies' stock.
Sure.
And then just another real quick one.
What -- in terms of the packaging coatings it sounds like the emerging markets was strong developed markets were a little weak could you put -- give a little bit color on that and what's driving the emerging markets strength? And then also how does that – how does kind of the volume compare to the developed markets? Yes Kevin I'll add some color there.
The growth in the emerging markets really is driven on a move to more recyclables in those markets away from items such as glass containers which are heavy in energy intensity and there's a shift again to those recyclable cans and a growing middle class in those emerging markets so the consumer requirements and consumer desires for more recyclables.
If you look at our delta in terms of volume we were up very solidly in the emerging markets Latin America and Asia and we were down modestly in U.S.
and Europe similar to Q2.
I would like to conclude the call.
Thank you for everybody's time and we appreciate your interest in PPG.
And also if there's any further questions please get in contact with Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2012 PPG Industries Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Martine and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Vince Morales Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Martine and good morning.
Again my name is Vince Morales.
I'm the Vice President of Investor Relations for PPG Industries.
Welcome to PPG's Fourth Quarter 2012 Financial Teleconference.
Joining me on the call today from PPG is Chuck Bunch Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; and Dave Navikas Senior Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
Our comments relate to the financial information released on Monday January 14 2013.
I will remind everyone that approximately 1 hour ago we posted detailed commentary and accompanying presentation slides on the Investor Center at our website ppg.com.
Those slides are also available on the webcast site for this call and they provide additional support to the opening comments Chuck will make momentarily.
Following Chuck's perspective on the company's results for the quarter we'll move to a Q&amp;A session.
Both the prepared commentary and discussion during the Q&amp;A may contain forward-looking statements reflecting the company's current view about future events and their potential effect on PPG's operating and financial performance.
These statements involve uncertainties and risks which may cause actual results to differ.
The company is under no obligation to provide subsequent updates to these forward-looking statements.
Today's presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures the company has provided in the appendix of the presentation materials which again are available on our website reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
For additional information please refer to PPG's filings with the SEC.
Now let me introduce PPG's Chairman and CEO Chuck Bunch.
Thank you Vince and welcome everyone.
Our record fourth quarter results capped off what has been an exceptional year for the company driven by excellent operating performance and the announcement of several significant strategic transactions that accelerate the pace of our portfolio transformation.
Record fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share of $1.53 are 10% higher than last year and marked 10 consecutive quarters of adjusted earnings per share records.
We achieved these results despite continued variation in regional economic performance and mixed end-use market demand levels.
A few business highlights from the quarter were the aggregate coatings segment earnings growth of 30% and Optical and Specialty Materials segment results which were similar.
Commodity Chemicals also grew earnings versus last year despite 2 unplanned outages during the quarter.
Full year commodity chemical results eclipsed last year's record level.
Geographically the United States remained our strongest region with most businesses delivering top line growth.
Emerging markets growth remained modest but trends improved in several businesses versus the prior 2 quarters.
European demand continued to be negative but the trend there also improved slightly versus the last few quarters.
A key element of our success in the quarter and overall for the year was the company's strong operating execution.
We continued to aggressively manage our businesses and fourth quarter results also benefited from the restructuring actions which we proactively initiated early in 2012.
For the full year we achieved a record adjusted EPS figure of $7.94 which is up 16% from last year's record.
Worth mentioning is earnings results improved in each region including Europe.
Also our full year return on sales percentage was higher in each segment except Glass.
For the year we delivered a record level of cash from operations up 25% versus last year and continued our long legacy of returning cash to shareholders by increasing our dividend for the 41st consecutive year.
In addition the announced strategic actions reflect the continued execution on our vision to remain a global leader in coatings and Specialty Materials.
Progress is well under way to finalize these actions.
We begin 2013 well positioned.
Our expectations are for continued variations in economic conditions.
We expect a growth bias to remain for the United States improvement in growth prospects in Asia and European activity to remain subdued.
As a result of these mixed economic conditions we will remain diligent in managing our businesses.
Operationally we expect an incremental $70 million to $80 million of savings from the finalization of our restructuring programs and we will implement targeted price increases in our coatings businesses to fully offset the inflation from the past 2 years.
Finally even before considering any impact from 2013 free cash flow we have excellent financial flexibility with cash and short-term investments of $2.4 billion.
A primary focus for the corporation in 2013 will be to analyze prudent cash deployment opportunities focused on profitable earnings growth.
Overall I am pleased with the financial performance we achieved in 2012 and we remain focused as we begin 2013 on profitably growing the company and creating additional shareholder value.
Thank you for your attention.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Now operator would you please give instructions and open the phone lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Chuck just on today's announcement on the Optical JV and the potential sale or purchase can you give us a little more detail on your thinking on this business? Is it core? Is it not core? If you sold it what's the tax base if you bought it? How much will it cost you? A little more detail will be great.
Well David we're not really going to give a lot more color on our -- on the press release we did that for our disclosure obligations.
And we're not going to get into a -- providing a lot of additional details on the press release regarding Transitions.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Just one more thing Chuck.
If you look at your coatings margins.
They were roughly 13.1% for the entire coatings businesses.
Should they be up or down next year? And if up by how much do you think? Well we feel we have an opportunity to improve on our coatings margins.
So we think in general economic conditions and volumes should improve globally.
It depends again on the regions and markets.
But we feel that that is going to be an overall benefit.
Plus we have -- as you know we'll be calendarizing the full restructuring benefits as we go through 2013.
So those 2 events I think or those 2 conditions give us an opportunity to improve on our coatings margins.
Your next question comes from the line of Duffy Fischer with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned that you still want to get prices in the coming year to catch up with raw mats.
How much more price do you need to kind of breakeven on raw mats overall? Well Duffy we had some inflation as we look even at the fourth quarter.
Even as the raw material basket was coming in balance we still had a slight inflation overall in our costs.
And so as we look to 2013 yes we're seeing some -- a difference in trends overall for raw materials.
We have some of our raw materials especially on the inorganic side that we have some modest declines.
Although now what we're seeing here as we start the year is some increases especially in commodities here in North America like propylene or ethylene.
So I would say that we're looking for a more balanced raw material outlook as we go through -- as we open here in 2013 and we will have other inflationary costs.
And we will have more than likely some targeted price increases for -- to address those or in businesses regions where we haven't fully recaptured the inflationary pressure that we saw over the last 2 years.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then on your goal I think you've talked several times about more than 10% that you'd  like to de-content TiO2 from your can of paint.
How much of that did you get accomplished in '12? And then how much more can we get done in '13? Well when we looked -- when we made the announcements regarding our targets for improvements in using TiO2 more efficiently we said 4% to 6% during 2012.
We accomplished that at the lower end of the range and we think we still have in 2013 an opportunity to improve our utilization again in the lower single-digit target levels for 2013.
Your next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Chuck you strike me as a somewhat loquacious individual.
The press release on Essilor today you're talking about the discussions there.
And yet you when you answered David's question you talked about disclosure obligations.
Now I would have thought that you would have discussions with them ongoing over the years.
Has anything changed with respect to the discussions that you would have had of a strategic nature with Essilor? No.
I would say that Frank as you know we are involved in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction with the Georgia Gulf.
We are in the exchange period and we are aware of our disclosure obligations around the transaction.
And we felt that yes it was appropriate for us to issue the press release that we did.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
So it has changed somewhat but it's really more of the RMT than perhaps something heating up today versus what it would have been 1 year or 2 or 3 or 4 or 5 years ago? Yes.
I think Frank the focus again is the fact that we're in this tender period and we want to make sure we adhere to our disclosure obligations.
LLC Research Division</strong> And where are we on the -- what inning are we in in terms of the restructuring? And what should we realistically expect? I think you'd indicated you had $70 million to $80 million left on the current program a lot of it European-based.
And you've got -- in terms of Akzo you got $60 million when that closes I think another $30 million in year one.
So I mean you can kind of get to $0.75 $0.80 of EPS benefit from restructuring in 2013.
Is that how we should be thinking about that? Frank this is Dave.
The $70 million to $80 million coming from the 2012 program is still a good estimate of what we're anticipating and that would more likely come in the first half of the year.
Certainly the first year synergies that we're expecting following the Akzo acquisition will come later on and be impacted by when we're able to close that transaction.
So you're still on track for a second quarter close.
Correct? That's what we're targeting.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Chuck just wanted a little more granularity on a couple of end markets you discussed in your release and commentary.
On the Architectural side you mentioned lower sales in emerging regions.
I wonder if you can just give us a little more color if there's been any trend change and how long we might expect these negative comps to continue? Well I would say the biggest influence on our emerging region Architectural performance was actions that we took Bob in Chile and Argentina to scale back our operations in those 2 markets in light of the economic conditions so that overall I would say that the trends for emerging markets were not nearly as negative if you looked at it overall excluding those 2 markets where we took company specific actions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on your Industrial side you mentioned that packaging coatings were strong in all regions.
And I guess I was looking at what Alcoa had to say about beverage can volumes and it wasn't consistent across regions.
So is there something you guys are doing differently that's giving you growth in the developed markets when it seems like most of the growth for those applications are in the emerging regions? I would say that the strongest volume was in the emerging regions.
But overall we did see some volume growth in the developed regions whether this was a restocking or emerging opportunities plus also the BPA-free.
The beginnings of those products now coming into the market may have had an influence.
But certainly we saw some volume growth in all of the markets but strongest in the Asia-Pacific region.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Did you have any reflections on titanium dioxide prices? Are they holding flat? Are they going down a little bit? Are they going up? Just sort of how are they acting and how do you see them in 2013? We have seen declines in the trends since the beginning of the second quarter of 2012 so where they hit a peak.
These are different by region so we've seen more weakness in Europe in light of we think overall economic conditions.
And as I said in my earlier comments we're looking at a more balanced flat raw material basket as we go into 2013 with probably modest declining trends in TiO2 overall offset by what appears to be at least here in the first quarter some pressure on the petrochemical or organic side of the raw material basket.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In the -- in 2012 your restructuring efforts were to pull out I think $40 million to $50 million pretax in costs.
Did you achieve that? And how would you look allocate those cost savings across your segments? Jeff this is Dave.
We did achieve the $40 million of savings in 2012.
And from a segment point of view we had provided information in our April call that had identified by segment where we were anticipating getting those savings in 2012.
And our actual performance was very much in line with that expectation.
Your next question comes from the line of John Roberts with Buckingham Research.
Was the high single-digit growth in U.S.
Architectural sales more price or more volume? Actually it was fairly even but I would say probably biased to the volume side in the market.
And could you help us understand what performance -- excuse me Specialty Materials and Optical would have done without the Thailand sort of dip in benefit comp and without the channel filling this? What would be a trend line in that segment because it had sort of 2 major things going on both the easy comps against Thailand disruptions and the channel filling? Yes John.
If you look at the Optical business in the fourth quarter we benefited year-over-year on the bottom line by about $5 million due to the absence of Thailand flooding impacts.
The top line we certainly were glad to see what I would call a full fill of the inventory build for Transition VII but that still wasn't the major driver there.
We did see some -- as you know the last 2 quarters we had some de-stocking in the channel.
We saw a little bit of overall inventory re-stocking as well as the benefit of the Transition VII build.
I'd say taking the 2 quarters in aggregate third and fourth quarter we're seeing I'd call it solid mid-single-digit trend gains.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Chuck if TiO2 pigment prices do continue to erode would all of that benefit flow into your gross margin for coatings? Or might you have any contracts whereby you'd be obligated to share in that benefit with your customers? For the most part our contracts don't have material price indexes.
And as I mentioned in my comments even though we're seeing a declining trend in the TiO2 pricing it's being offset by either other inflation or some continued inflation on the organic side.
But also on the inorganic side we're seeing some non-TiO2 pigment prices that are increasing.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then as a follow-up I thought I might try for a clarification on your Optical press release.
There's a sentence in there that begins "Under certain circumstances which PPG does not yet believe have occurred either PPG or Essilor may have the right to specify a price." It wasn't clear to me exactly what the trigger might be.
I'm not sure if you can comment on it.
But if you could perhaps address what circumstances might need to arise for either party to specify a price that might help? Kevin we're not prepared to go into the -- all of the specific details of the joint venture agreement so we're not going to provide any more clarity other than what you've seen in the press release.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then final one if I'm may Chuck.
I think you cited improving growth prospects as part of your outlook for Asia.
Can you talk about what is driving that? Is it macro or company specific or both and which product lines you're feeling better about regionally within Asia? For us the -- let's call it the general industrial activity was improving as we move through the second half and into the fourth quarter.
Automotive builds have also continued to grow.
We have seen some as you know slowdown on the electronics side and some of the construction-related end-use markets were still slow.
Although here as we've been talking about with the leadership -- with the new leadership in place in China we think that we're going to see now incentives for growth.
And we have seen some signs of strengthening in some of these other markets although right now it is not quite evident on the electronics side.
Your next question comes from the line of John McNulty with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is calling Abhi Rajendran calling in for John.
So a quick question on M&amp;A.
So looking past the Akzo deal could you touch on roughly how much cash you expect to have to put towards further M&amp;A as well as some of the main areas of focus within a business and regional basis? Well if you look at our cash at the end of the fourth quarter so we had some close to $2.5 billion.
So we will receive at the conclusion of the Georgia Gulf transaction around $900 million.
That will be our outlay more or less later in the year with the closing of the Akzo transaction.
So that would put you at relatively the same position that we have finished the quarter in which we have previously announced that our -- what we need to run the company is under $500 million.
So it would give us we think considerable resources to deploy for shareholder value-creating initiatives.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just some of the main areas of focus that you might be looking at both on a -- either on a business or a geographic basis? Well we would continue to look for opportunities as we talked about in our coatings businesses.
Geographically we've made 2 announcements.
We completed the Spraylat acquisition about 2 weeks ago.
That was a North American-focused company in Industrial Coatings although they had operations in China and in Europe.
Akzo is predominantly or almost all North American including the Caribbean Canada and the U.S.
And we continue to look for opportunities in other geographic areas so that would be one of the areas in which we would continue to look for opportunities.
But we have other segments of our business or our company that we think if there are appropriate opportunities so we would continue to look for acquisitions in those areas as well if they will create shareholder value.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then just a quick follow-up on the auto area.
Could you touch on some of the share gains that you're continuing to see in auto OEM just in terms of what's driving this and are they skewed towards any perching particular geographic regions or anything else you could share? Well if you look at our automotive OEM business in 2012 2 of the strongest growth areas globally for the industry were here in North America and in China.
We are well positioned in both of those markets and we think that we had a very good year in terms of participating in the industry growth plus the customers that we were working with.
And some of our new product introductions were very successful in each of those markets and that was beneficial to driving the overall growth in our automotive coatings business globally.
Your next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Research Division</strong> So post Akzo acquisition announcement have you had a chance to talk to your retail partners Home Depot Lowe's Walmart to see their reaction in any potential channel conflict issues? Yes we have.
We as PPG we visit the major customers in all channels on a regular basis.
We did follow up with the customers in all of the channels.
And we announced our strategy in which we were going to continue to support all of our existing businesses plus those of the acquired company.
And I would say that the interaction with the customers in the channels was very positive.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on automotive OEM you just talked about share gains.
I know a competitor was selling its business and that sold but they probably lost share.
Are the shared gains done now? Or do you expect the shared gains to continue in 2013? I would say that it's difficult to determine actual share in this industry on a short-term basis.
Many of the -- when you look at awards oftentimes you're awarded business for several years different models different plans.
And I would say at this point I would not say that we see significant share shifts.
We're trying to continue to support all our customers and we have been fortunate to work with a number of them that have done very well in their markets as we talked about here in North America in China and Asia more broadly.
And probably most importantly we just continue to work on execution keeping our costs in line and especially focused on the weakness that we've seen in Europe overall.
So we focus there not as much on shared gains but more on execution and driving our operations.
Research Division</strong> And just quickly lastly I think earlier you said that you got strong volume growth in Architectural.
Can you compare your volume growth in your own stores versus big boxes and where it's coming from? I just want to compare qualitatively.
I think I indicated that the performance by channel was similar for us.
We had high single-digit overall sales growth probably more on the volume side than on the pricing side.
And I would say the performance overall by channel was positive in both channels.
Your next question comes from the line of Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> With regard Europe it seems like that -- or excuse me Architectural Europe it seems like that business you've been able to enjoy price increases much more than some of your other coatings businesses.
So I'm wondering -- and of course this is a mid or fairly weak macroenvironment.
So I'm wondering what you're able to do there that allows you to generate a higher price increase year-over-year than in some of your other coatings segments? I would say that the majority of the improvement in Europe has been driven by our cost and execution actions.
And we did focus as you know in the overall corporate restructuring on Europe.
And obviously that segment the Architectural EMEA segment was the focal point for our restructuring activities in the overall Architectural business globally.
So I think that's where you're seeing most of the improvement would be on the cost side for that business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then if -- it sounds like in your prepared remarks you expect OEM volumes to be roughly flat year-over-year in 2013.
Does that mean that you really have to see a lot more heavy lifting coming from the packaging and general industrial in order to see volume growth? Or is there something else in there to assume that you're going to see continued volume growth in general in the Industrial Coatings business in 2013? Nils this is Vince.
The reference in the prepared remarks was really toward 1Q not the full year for 2013.
We do expect full year growth in global automotive again with European weakness as a partially offset.
So again the 1Q saw very strong results in the first quarter 2012.
And the year-over-year growth will be tempered by those first quarter results last year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Got it.
That was the tsunami effect.
So that you had in the first quarter a lot of inventory rebuilding because the supply chains were depleted especially among the Japanese-based manufacturers as a result of the tsunami in 2011.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just finally if more of a strategic question.
With the Akzo transaction as well as sure wins it seems like I mean in just about every end market for coatings you're going to be #1 or #2.
Is there much more you can do in terms of M&amp;A to -- I mean it seems like there aren't too many more big companies out there that you can do or you can acquire.
So going forward are we going to see if in terms of your acquisition strategy just more bolt-ons? Well I think if you look at the coatings industry globally it is still not a highly consolidated industry compared to many other global manufacturing industries.
So we think that there will be opportunities for more consolidation on a global basis but the regional mix of acquisitions may change.
But if you look at the industry in most other regions in Asia in Europe Latin America these are areas of continuing opportunity for further consolidation in coatings.
And your next question comes from the line of Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Walker on for Laurence.
I guess just to follow up a little on raw materials.
So propylene contract looks to set to increase about $0.15 in January.
Does your forecast for -- the comment you made on relatively flat pricing in 2013 does that imply that propylene prices will soften later in the year as they did in the last year? Or I guess are you planning to increase prices to fully cover the proposed January increase? Well I think our comment were -- was in relation to this balance in the raw material basket between let's call them the inorganic raw materials and the organic or petrochemical-based raw materials with these increases that we're seeing in propylene and ethylene here as we start the year and that potential impact on raw material price escalation in those raw materials offsetting any negative trends that we may see in the rest of the basket.
That's what we are saying is right now we're looking at something more balanced.
But obviously we're going to look at the trends in the entire basket and the different raw materials that are going in.
And if we see further spikes in propylene or those get pushed through into the propylene based or raw materials that we're buying then we're going to certainly open up discussions with our customers if we see those escalating much more than what we've seen currently.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if the prices go up further than the January increase and they get passed through the derivatives I guess is there a price level where you would hit a point where you couldn't pass through the price in the current year and have a situation where you have to recoup it over 2 years? Well typically as we talked about with the price increases in the past typically there is a period when we're trying -- we're certainly trying to push back on any price increases that we would be receiving in the short term.
But then as we absorb this raw material inflation on our side typically as we talked in the past it can take a quarter or 2 for us to try and get those increases reflected in our pricing with our customers.
So I think that's in general how we've described the timing on raw material and pricing increases.
Your next question comes from the line of Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One on U.S.
Architectural where you're going to have a much bigger exposure obviously post the Akzo acquisition what do you think that overall growth was for the full year from an industry standpoint for 2012? And if you exceed that growth -- the numbers I've seen suggest about 4% industry growth.
So I guess it would be the first increase in a number of years.
That would be around what we were saying would have been the growth in 2012 Don.
So that's consistent and it's certainly the first increase in several years.
We're still nowhere near where we were before the crisis.
So if you go back to 2006 or 2007 we're still much below that.
We think that 2013 is going to be a good year for the U.S.
construction industry.
The first quarter last year was pretty good because we had some seasonally good weather.
It's still a little early to kind of forecast what's going to be the outlook for the weather in the first quarter.
These first couple of weeks have been more normal.
But I would say overall for the full year yes we're optimistic that these trends that we saw these first positive trends are going to continue in 2013.
The data the housing data the construction data overall has been -- continued to be for the most part positive.
You're seeing a lot of anecdotal information about -- in certain markets the housing resale market strengthening.
We've seen increases in new home construction permits and starts.
So overall I would say we're fairly optimistic.
We've gotten through the fiscal cliff.
Do we have some problems in a few months with a debt ceiling and other things that could derail this? Mortgage rates continue to be very positive.
So we're optimistic and we think we're going to have a good year in 2013 and in North America in Architectural.
LLLP Research Division</strong> For 2012 did you grow above the industry rate? Did you do take share? And would do you expect to grow above the industry rate in -- on a pro forma basis in 2013? I would say in general we were in line with industry trends in 2012.
And in 2013 obviously we'll get a bump from the acquisition activity that -- with Akzo North America.
And I think we're well positioned to take advantage of the growth that we see overall for 2013.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up on your share repurchase intentions.
You've talked about $500 million to $700 million once the Reverse Morris Trust is done.
Is it your intention to get most of that done in the first half and then depending on what acquisitions are in the pipeline increase that level of share repurchase in the second half of 2013? I would say Don this is Dave that the expectations there or that we would spread that activity the share repurchase activity out over the remainder of our 2013.
So I would not envision it being loaded into the front half of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Gregg Goodnight with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Modeling questions for Dave.
First cash contributions to pension in '13 do you expect them to be about what they were in '12 or...
Yes Gregg.
In 2012 our only cash contributions were to our non-U.S.
plants and we would expect the same situation in 2013.
And in terms of amount 2013 would be in line with 2012.
Research Division</strong> Also on cash the asbestos settlement has been in abeyance for quite a while.
Would you expect any cash requirements for potential settlement in 2013 at all? It's certainly a possibility Gregg I would say.
If it is it would likely be in the back half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Last question if I could.
The -- your portfolio transformation has gone well.
It seems to be near completion.
The obvious element in your portfolio that doesn't seem to fit with the rest is obviously the Glass component.
Does Glass fill some long-term strategic niche in your portfolio? Or is that an area that might require some additional looking at by the company? Well as we talked about the businesses in that segment are businesses that aren't in our core but have been contributors over the years but we are -- we would be open to look at opportunities to create shareholder value.
We think that we have begun to see the improvement in the flat glass business.
This is tied more specifically from an end-use market to the commercial construction industry here in North America.
We're seeing some of the early signs of improvement.
We do have what we think is a good position in that business good brand as well as market position.
So we think that there's an opportunity for further improvement in that business.
Fiberglass as we mentioned in the release we have had some challenges tied to some global weakness in the business.
In Europe we are tied as well in Asia to the electronics industry which has been weaker.
So right now we think that we're focused on the right things in the business which are continuing to improve our operations and if opportunities present themselves in -- as we move forward we'll continue to look at it.
Your next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> For the 2 more profitable coatings end markets aerospace and auto refinishing how should we think about the outlook for the full year? And also was auto refinish a bit weaker than you initially thought it would be for the fourth quarter? I would say for -- if we look at those first the Aerospace business we had a very strong year in 2012.
And we think that the industry on a global basis looks good in 2013.
So we're looking for further improvement in our aerospace business.
Military will probably not be as strong in terms of the end-use markets.
But what we've seen here is commercial aviation continues to be strong.
There is more -- better airline profitability globally so we think the aerospace business looks good.
In the refinish business we had some weakness in the European market in light of the overall economic conditions there.
But it is tied in the longer-term trends to global industry builds and the global car parts which are growing.
The automotive industry globally is a growth industry and we're seeing that play out.
So the longer-term trends are good for automotive refinish.
We think we'll have a good year here in 2013.
But Europe obviously was part of the story in 2012 with the weakness that we saw there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last quarter your auto OEM production chart for the EMEA region is estimated at that 11% decline I think for the fourth quarter do have a sense as to what the estimate is for the first quarter for that region? Yes it's going to be negative but not at that level because I think now we're seeing some -- we're still seeing negative trends in Europe but not an acceleration of the declines that we've really been experiencing now for 6 quarters.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Dan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at your geographic split it seemed like North America was very strong.
I was wondering if looking at your regional split if you could see any impacts positive or negative from Hurricane Sandy? No I wouldn't say that any of the trends that we saw here in the fourth quarter could we attribute to that.
Obviously the 2 things that are probably going to play out here in 2013 will be the rebuilding or reconstruction activity that should help construction industry in the Northeast as well as what happened to -- there were a lot of vehicles that were damaged or destroyed.
And that should be a boost to the automotive industry both in terms of the OEM and the refinish industry here in 2013.
But I wouldn't say it's going to be the driving force and it was really too early in the fourth quarter of 2012 to really see a trend there.
Your next question comes from James Sheehan of SunTrust.
Research Division</strong> Chuck I was just wondering if you could comment on the licensing deal with the Chinese company on TiO2.
How big a portion of the overall reformulation effort is that now and how big do you think it could be in the future? Well the overall licensing agreement with Billions I would say is quite small so that -- and it really doesn't figure into the targets that we talk about for improving TiO2 productivity or usage in our formulas.
I would say that neither the licensing revenue or the impact were -- on meeting our metrics were in any way significant.
They are a supplier to PPG but the things that we're talking about there are more long term in nature.
There's no immediate benefit in terms of starting up the chloride production and I think these things are events that will take place in the future.
Research Division</strong> Just on the situation with housing starts and some of the macro data that you referred to earlier.
I was wondering if you could comment on some of the PPG store inventory levels.
Are you seeing any changes there that are reflecting some of this macro data? Or just what are you seeing in the inventories now? Well we try to keep our inventories in balance with the level of demand.
And so as we get into the first quarter we typically have inventory build in our Architectural business as we prepare for the busy season.
And I would say even though the volume trends were positive for us in the fourth quarter in our own stores it was nothing that we could -- we were having to make let's say unusual adjustments to inventory levels to meet what we saw out there.
But obviously positive trends something that we're watching so that we feel we'll be fully prepared as we go into the season this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Hocevar with Northcoast Research.
This is Saul in for Kevin today.
A couple of specifics if you could.
Your total company had $57 million worth of sales improvement due to price.
How much of that was in coatings? And what was the raw material dollar change either up or down in coatings in the fourth quarter? Saul if you look I think we said in our prepared comments that both glass and chemicals had negative pricing in the quarter.
So all the coatings gains were primarily coatings -- or excuse me all the pricing gains primarily coatings oriented.
We did see still inflation in the quarter.
And for the full year we saw inflation.
So we're still trying to work through Chuck mentioned earlier a full offset of inflation over not only this year but over the past 24 months.
But in the quarter Vince was the inflation more or less than what you got in pricing? It was -- they were fairly close.
As Chuck mentioned we're trying to get more -- they're fairly balanced now but we do see more inflation coming early in the first quarter of 2013.
Okay.
And then a second question on Glass.
How much of the earnings are equity income? And what was the equity income component this year versus last year so we could separate what you earned from your operating businesses versus your equity contribution? Even in a good year Saul the equity earnings don't account for more than 15% of Glass total earnings.
They are more volatile because they're -- there's no sales impact or we don't control the costs.
We were down several million dollars this year primarily due to the fiberglass JVs which are focused on the electronic market which as we mentioned earlier remained weak.
But that's the biggest JV structure we have in our glass segment.
Of the $9 million that you earned how much was the equity income just a couple million dollars? At best.
And the fourth quarter it was seasonally light just by nature.
Your next question comes from the line of Richie O'Reilly Revere Associates.
A couple of follow-up questions the first one in Glass.
Do you still own the 40% in the auto glass business? And what's the status of that longer term? We do own -- we've maintained our minority interest.
It's actually 38% and that is in our portfolio.
We continue to have a good relationship with our -- the majority owners of the Kohlberg company.
And right now it's an ongoing business in our portfolio.
Okay.
So you would need to have the other owners decide if they wanted to acquire the rest of the stake? Is that -- would it be their option? Well as we stated earlier we're not going to go into all the details of our specific joint venture contracts.
But right now the business is operating successfully and continues in our portfolio.
Okay.
Second I'm going to try the Transitions announcement again And Kevin earlier had started reading a sentence.
But near the end of it it talks about interest at one or more of the joint venture companies.
Can you give us an idea what that is referring to? Is that regional or is it product line? Or I guess could you keep your overall interest in the -- your overall venture at 51% but change ownership of these sub-ventures? Rich as we mentioned earlier I think everything we're going to say today on that is in the release.
And we have a follow-up question from the line of John Roberts with Buckingham Research.
Chuck you mentioned U.S.
automotive OEM in 2013 might benefit from the destroyed cars from the hurricane.
Would most of that really be in the first quarter here? And you've already said that I guess it will be offset by the difficult comps against the Japanese tsunami effect.
I would say that we're not exactly sure when we're going to see the impact from that hurricane.
The OEM business it goes through several distribution layers.
I would think that we're going to see more of that in the first half.
I would think that by the middle of the year any effects on at least in automotive from Hurricane Sandy should be evident.
Now it may take a little longer on the construction side of the equation.
You may take let's say the full year to see all of the impact of the reconstruction activity.
But I'm not sure that in the automotive side you're going to see that all in the first quarter.
But I would say most of that should be in the first half.
I would now like to turn the call back over to management for any closing remarks.
This is Vince Morales.
I just like to thank everybody for your participation today.
If there any further questions please feel free to contact me in Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter 1 2013 PPG Industries Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Angela and I'm your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I'd now like to hand the call over to Mr.
Vince Morales Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Angela and good afternoon everybody.
Again this is Vince Morales Vice President of Investor Relations for PPG Industries.
Welcome to PPG's First Quarter 2013 Financial Teleconference.
Joining me from PPG on the call today is Chuck Bunch PPG's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Michael McGarry Executive Vice President; Dave Navikas Senior Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer; and I'd like to introduce Frank Sklarsky Executive Vice President Finance who just joined PPG this week and welcome Frank.
Our comments relate to the financial information released on Thursday April 18 2013.
I will remind everybody that approximately 1 hour ago we posted detailed commentary and accompanying presentation slides on our Investor Center at our website at ppg.com.
These slides are also available on the webcast site for this call and provide additional support to our opening comments that Chuck will make momentarily.
Following Chuck's perspective on the company's results for the quarter we will move to a Q&amp;A session.
Both our prepared commentary and discussion during the Q&amp;A may contain forward-looking statements reflecting the company's current view about future events and their potential effect on PPG's operating and financial performance.
These statements involve uncertainties and risks which may cause actual results to differ.
The company is under no obligation to provide subsequent updates to these forward-looking statements.
This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The company has provided in the appendix of the presentation materials which again are available on our website reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
For additional information please refer to PPG's filings with the SEC.
Now let me introduce PPG's Chairman and CEO Chuck Bunch.
Thank you Vince and welcome everyone.
We delivered another strong earnings performance in the first quarter with adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.58 up 12% versus the prior year.
We achieved these results despite notable differences in demand levels by region with strong North American demand continuing growth resuming in most Asian end-use markets and broadly weaker activity in Europe.
We were able to deliver higher earnings due principally to our proactive cost management actions coupled with continued strength of several end-use markets including automotive OEM aerospace and U.S.
construction.
A few key business highlights from the quarter were the aggregate coatings segment earnings growth we achieved of 13%.
In addition our coatings earnings grew in each region including Europe despite the persistent economic weakness in that region.
This performance was delivered despite volumes that were down about 3% versus the prior year although the prior-year period included 2 additional sales days which impacted comparisons in several of our businesses.
From a strategic standpoint we have also been very active.
We completed the Commodity Chemicals business separation transaction in late January.
As a result of that transaction we received about $900 million of cash reduced our share count by 10.8 million shares or about 7% and recorded a nonrecurring gain relating to the business separation of about $2.2 billion in the quarter.
Additionally on April 1 we completed the acquisition of AkzoNobel's North American Architectural Coatings business.
Since the acquisition was announced in December 2012 we have been very focused on a seamless integration for our customers and to ensure we are creating shareholder value.
As a result of our progress to date we have identified further synergy opportunities and have increased our 3-year synergy target for the acquisition to $200 million up 25% versus our initial target.
This target includes $60 million of cost reductions that we realized when the transaction closed.
Results for the acquired business will be incorporated into our second quarter financials and we look forward to updating you on the integration process in upcoming quarters.
Looking ahead we plan to continue to build on our strong first quarter performance.
We remain optimistic about growth prospects in several of our businesses.
This includes many of our businesses serving North America where demand remains solid and consistent such as the U.S.
construction market where we have more than doubled the size of our U.S.
Architectural Coatings business with the addition of the acquired AkzoNobel business.
Additionally automotive OEM and aerospace remain global growth platforms in the coming quarters.
Also many of our businesses in Asia and specifically China are expected to continue to grow as our products are focused primarily on serving local consumption and general industrial activities and have only minor exposure to weaker end-use markets such as construction.
Demand in Europe is likely to remain challenging and we expect that the implementation of our restructuring program and our focus on aggressive cost management will continue to offset the impacts of these weak market conditions.
Our balance sheet remains very strong with about $2.4 billion of cash and short-term investments at quarter end.
One thing to note is that we paid just over $900 million on April 1 for the acquired AkzoNobel business which will be reflected in our second quarter financial statements.
During the first quarter we repaid $600 million of term debt that matured near the end of the quarter and was carrying a high interest rate based on current rates.
And we spent about $140 million on share repurchases primarily in the months of February and March after the Commodity Chemicals separation was completed.
We continue to analyze prudent cash deployment opportunities focused on growing our earnings and rewarding our shareholders including today as our Board of Directors approved a $0.02 dividend increase raising the quarterly dividend to $0.61.
Overall I was pleased with our first quarter financial performance in the face of somewhat difficult and mixed economic conditions and in comparison to a tough period last year.
However given these diverse market conditions will remain -- will likely remain we will continue to demand operating and cost excellence from our businesses and apply the same focus on our customers as we had demonstrated in the past.
Thank you for your attention.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Now operator would you please give instructions and open the phone lines for questions? [Operator Instructions]  Please stand by for your first question which comes from the line of David Begleiter from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Chuck can you update us on your discussions with Essilor on the Transitions joint venture? No we have no update today on the discussions other than the disclosure that we made early in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
And just as a follow-up in terms of the Akzo business talk about some of the -- some profitability metric you might look at for 2013 given these initial cost savings in there? David this is Michael McGarry.
In regard to that the most challenging aspect of the Akzo business is the stores network so that will be where we focus.
Obviously we have some synergy levels in a lot of the places overhead as well as other locations as far as how we operate the business versus there we have a lot more rigor that I think -- in our business so it will be where we're focused.
Next question comes from John McNulty from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> With regard to the synergy target you've obviously -- you've had some chance a little bit of time to actually look at them and obviously it's a pretty big increase to the $200 million.
So I guess if you -- I was wondering if you could give us some clarity as to which of the kind of major buckets you're seeing the biggest changes in.
And then as the follow-up if you can give us any color as to maybe any working capital opportunities you may see in the assets as well now that you've got a chance to dig into them? John this is Michael again.
The West Coast is an opportunity for us.
As you know we had a nice store network on the West Coast so we'll be shifting volume from their plants into our Reno network so that will be one.
We have a deeper understanding of the logistics across both networks that will be one.
I talked already about the stores opportunity in -- and SG&amp;A so those will be the other ones.
Research Division</strong> And on the working capital side? Working capital I would say they're fairly decent.
And so that's clearly an area of focus for the entire company and not just for architectural.
Next question comes from Frank Mitsch from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I admit Chuck I'm a little bit lost if I can't ask a question about caustic or chlorine? Well you know where the -- I'm sure you'll be asking those questions at [indiscernible] and some of the other market participants but...
LLC Research Division</strong> I will get my fix elsewhere.
You started on that share buyback in February.
You guys are targeting like $500 million to $750 million in 2013.
I'm wondering if you could update on uses of cash whether it -- whether you think you'll proceed at that pace that you had in the first quarter on the share buyback side or what you're looking at in terms of M&amp;A opportunities? Well I would say that that target range for the full year is still appropriate.
Obviously it's going to depend somewhat on acquisition opportunities and other potential uses of cash.
And right now as you saw with our recent announcement concerning Deft we are still active in the marketplace.
We did announce as you know at the end of the fourth quarter the Spraylat.
So we're continuing to actively look at acquisition opportunities and we will have some further news as we go through the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And the -- your performance in auto OEM particularly in Europe with the industry down and yet -- down double-digits and yet you reported a volume increase there how did you do it? What can we expect there because that was somewhat surprising? It was an excellent performance overall for the business unit and especially in Europe.
And as you know in automotive OEM these are longer-term commitments but we have several new products what we call our compact process for the full coatings materials on an automobile as well as our new electrocoat product that have been helping us to gain new business.
We also had what I would call a good customer mix.
So we were with the right customers and the right plants that really helped us in Europe offset some of the declines.
But we're very well-positioned here and in China as an example.
So I think it was an across-the-board excellent performance from the business unit in addition to very good cost management.
And we benefited obviously there from some of the restructuring activities that we started last year and actually during the previous recession in '08 and '09.
Next question comes from Robert Koort from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Chuck I was wondering if you might give us some more granularity on the comments you made in the prepared comments about channel differentials in U.S.
architectural.
It seems like you had different growth rates across the different channels.
Could you give us maybe some explanation of what was going on there? Well we had what we felt were good growth rates in the stores channel this is the PPG stores channel here in the U.S.
as well as the home center channel.
Where we saw more weakness was in what we would call the independent dealer channel.
And there because you're going through a 2-step distribution process on occasion especially when you straddle a quarter like this and the seasonality as it's changing and some of the weather patterns I think we saw some of our dealers just move purchases or inventory over the last month or 2.
But that was definitely the channel that we saw some weakness to but I don't know that it's a longer-term trend.
We'll have to wait as we go through the second quarter to make sure that we're seeing a consistent pattern.
And I think that the dealers are well-positioned should be able to take advantage of this improving market.
So at this point I wouldn't take too many conclusions from the weakness of that 1 channel especially because of the 2-step nature of distribution.
Research Division</strong> And I think you just provided some commentary about the admirable results in your auto OEM and being on the right platforms and/or in some cases geographies.
Should we expect -- you gave commentary that you'll continue to outpace the industry but should we expect a more modest out-performance versus the industry going forward? I think the second quarter some of those trends should still be in place.
Obviously the European market was very weak and we're seeing the lowest auto builds there in a generation.
But I would say that if you look ahead to the next quarter or 2 the U.S.
and North American markets very healthy.
And I think the production levels should be sustained versus prior year if not slightly higher.
And the China automotive market very strong.
We're looking for 10% growth now in the Chinese automotive and we're well-positioned again with many of the best customers best plants new technology.
So we're looking to continue the momentum that you saw in the first quarter.
The next question comes from Don Carson from Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Chuck a question on gross margin you had a strong gross margin.
I'm just wondering how much of that was better than expected raw particularly with propylene coming down which I know you have a big exposure to versus how much of that was productivity? And then maybe if you could comment on your sort of raw material outlook for the year for coatings and whether that's changed? I would say the margin improvement was largely the result of the cost and restructuring activities.
Raw materials were just down slightly.
Overall our inflation index if you take all the transportation and distribution costs was slightly up.
And so I would say most of the improvement was again kind of mix and productivity and restructuring.
Raw materials for us again down slightly in the first quarter primarily in Europe.
Europe has been as you know from our results here was by far our weakest region.
Volumes were down in almost every business.
And we saw some raw material price weakness in Europe that did help.
Our overall outlook for this year is flat to slightly negative raw material pricing.
What we are seeing however over the last few weeks some more weakness in commodity prices with the exception of natural gas.
But in -- as you know propylene for us is -- we're not usually buying it except in resin formulations.
And so we don't usually see the immediate benefit of declines in propylene prices.
So we may see that later in the year if these trends continue but certainly we're not looking for it here in the near term.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And just as a follow-up given your view that raw materials might come down obviously some of your large customers in coatings track that as well.
Do you see any pressure to reduce Coatings prices from the big boxes? Well as I said most of the raw material weakness was in Europe.
The raw material here the raw material basket here in North America and actually in Asia as well is just slightly down.
It was close to 0 but low single-digit numbers so at this point our pricing is stable.
Next question comes from John Roberts from UBS.
I was a little surprised that the packaging business also I think was strong in Europe.
And then as a follow-up were you a little surprised that the Industrial Coatings business in North America wasn't strong given there's fair amount of auto and other related things over in your Industrial Coatings area in North America? Well you asked about a couple of businesses.
I would say in packaging the strongest regional market for us has been in Asia Pacific.
I would say that volumes in North America and Europe for packaging are stable but the growth that we did experience was in Asia.
And in Industrial Coatings it is what I would call a mix story by both region and end-use markets automotive parts being one of the strongest.
We've seen some weakness in consumer electronics although it was moderated I guess on our Industrial Coatings side.
Heavy duty equipment was I would say flat and some of the construction-related -- the industrial markets that serve the commercial construction still -- it's still early days in any recovery and Europe overall was somewhat weak.
So I think it's really a mix story.
But we've done well overall in industrial again good restructuring good support in Europe through productivity.
Some help in Europe on the raw materials but it's been a mixed bag.
And the 4-quarter seasonal breakdown for the Glidden business that you gave in your handout does that imply the first quarter which wasn't included in your results was a pretty normal seasonal quarter for them? Yes John this is Vince.
We saw normal seasonality in all of our businesses essentially including that business based on what we have exposure to.
Next question comes from Jeff Zekauskas from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I went to my local Lowe's and I saw sort of shelves of Valspar's new propane and I saw very little Olympic.
Is it the case that your share at Lowe's is decreasing? And is it perhaps the result of the AkzoNobel acquisition? And will losses of share at Lowe's offset the increased productivity that you see in buying the AkzoNobel business? The new prop program at Lowe's is being supplied by Valspar.
So that was a competitive situation that PPG did not win.
That decision was made prior to the Akzo announcement so it was based on the merits of the bidding process and the decisions of the customer at that time.
So it's -- in our case with the Akzo acquisition we're looking at that as an opportunity.
We have again had good discussions with all channels all customers.
And we're confident that we will be able to perform well in the integration of these businesses thus the increase in the synergy targets that you saw today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly can you talk about the weakness in the domestic optical business in a bit more detail? The optical business in North America from all our customer and at-market data so it was not just in our Transitions business but broader whether that was due to changes in insurance reimbursement plans weather less the falling of Easter.
It's not sure but there was more weakness in the first quarter in the at-market sales of all the products in the optical industry not just Transitions.
So at this point we're going to see how that performance manifests itself here in the second quarter going forward before we can really say that this is a longer-term trend.
Next question comes from Kevin McCarthy Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Chuck I thought your commentary on the Asian coatings market was perhaps more positive than I might have anticipated.
I think you described notably improved activity in the region mid to high single-digit growth x marine.
Can you comment on what is driving that and what is your degree of confidence that Asia will continue to grow at that sort of pace or a different pace? Kevin if you look at the Chinese market in particular obviously with the exception -- well let's say the -- by far the weakest market is the marine new-build market and that affects our business in China and also Korea.
The first quarter was no exception.
We've been talking about this for the last year or so.
Those trends continued.
We think the comparable data in the second half of the year will improve there.
But right now we're still experiencing notable declines in the business.
In China the construction market let's call it the residential construction market was also somewhat weaker.
Although we have a relatively small business there.
We actually gained slightly in terms of volume but off a very small base.
The big businesses for us in China automotive OEM they had an excellent quarter a lot of momentum as we've talked about.
Automotive refinish good volume growth as the carpark continues to expand in China.
The Industrial business was also solid.
Again the -- for the most part the strengths that we saw in automotive parts actually our customer mix in consumer electronics was not too bad and the packaging business as I've referenced was also solid in China.
So if you look at our biggest market there we had on balance good support again led by automotive OEM builds which are going to be up some 10% and again with some of the -- our new product introductions our customer mix we're poised to continue to deliver in Asia more broadly but specifically in China.
Research Division</strong> As a follow-up Chuck when do you expect the marine business to hit a cyclical trough? Well I think the second half of this year we're expecting this -- let's call it this precipitous decline to level off.
You haven't seen more broadly the industry start to recover.
China went down for -- earliest I guess in this new-build cycle and Korea sustained its new-builds longer.
Now we've seen a little bit of more weakness in Korea as well but I think the second half is going to moderate in terms of the market declines.
But in terms of an upturn we're probably at least a year away from seeing these things increase build rates in -- for new oceangoing vessels in Asia.
Now the half of that business is protective coatings.
So despite the weakness in new-builds in Asia protective Coatings is growing.
It's doing well here in North America.
It is also growing in Asia.
And we're doing a good job in Europe from a restructuring and productivity standpoint.
So I don't want to paint a too gloomy picture of the strategic business unit because it does include -- half of that market is doing well but we have seen a sharp decline in marine new-builds.
We're again leveling off second half of this year but probably won't start an upturn until next year.
Next question comes from P.J.
Juvekar from Citibank.
Research Division</strong> If I look at Slide 16 Akzo had Glidden brand in pretty much every channel.
Is there potential brand repositioning you can do to avoid any channel conflicts? We're going to look at our brand positioning and I think we'll have an opportunity.
It was -- it's really early days and I think these -- the first thing that we're trying to do with this integration is make sure that all the current customers are being supported and supplied and so we think that we're not going to make any quick changes in terms of brand or channel but it's certainly something that we're going to look at and there'd be maybe some opportunities to provide more clarity among the channels in the future.
But right now we're moving forward to protect all of the customers that we have in those channels.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then your optical sales were down 6%.
Is there more competition for Transitions coming in at the low-end from competitors like Zeiss or Hoya? We have been competing with Zeiss and Hoya in photochromics in Hoya's case for several years.
Zeiss started early in 2012 and actually in 2011.
And so I don't think that there is any new product introductions here.
We do see the Chinese market growing.
That's an opportunity for all the optical manufacturers although there is a manufacturing base in China that we will watch as -- in the coming years as they develop their capability.
Next question comes from Ghansham Panjabi from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Akzo this morning was calling out a trade-down effect in architectural paints in Europe.
Can you just give us some color on what you're seeing at the region there? Ghansham this is Michael.
The -- our numbers in Europe were negatively impacted by our trade business.
The trade guys react very quickly to weather.
And as you know over in Europe we had the worst weather in a couple of decades and so we were right in that minus 10% to 12% downrange.
Research Division</strong> Okay so most of the weakness was just weather-related versus any sort of trade-down then? Yes we don't think we lost any share.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just can you give us some more color on the Deft acquisition too? What was the attraction there? Was it technology customer alignment et cetera? This -- the Deft acquisition about 75% of Deft sales are in the aerospace industry and that's one.
And we are the industry leader in aerospace coatings so we felt it fit nicely and not only from a position but they have some excellent products especially water-based primers.
And so we felt that it filled some product niche opportunities for us expanded our presence in the space.
And so we look forward to what we feel is going to be an excellent acquisition not only for the aerospace but we also have some industrial and architectural products that are part of that acquisition.
But the primary driver was product opportunities in aerospace.
Next question comes from Laurence Alexander from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Walker on for Laurence.
I guess as you think about volume trends this quarter U.S.
had a tough comp because of weather.
Europe had a tough comp because activity didn't fall off until Q2 last year.
So I guess shouldn't the comp get easier notably in Q2 and do you expect coatings volumes overall to be solidly up year-over-year in Q2? Yes we think that we should face some easier comparables in the second quarter.
And I would say that in Europe and we feel that the business will get better overall in Europe.
And the first quarter was very weak but we don't feel that this trend is going to accelerate here in the second quarter and the comp should be favorable here and in Europe as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess could you update us on what you're seeing in the TiO2 market and your progress on the various initiatives you're doing there to continue to improve the situation? Well we hit our target last year of more efficiently using TiO2 in our formulas between 4% and 6% so we were within the range on the lower end of that.
We saw some continued improvement but not at the same pace here in the first quarter so we're continuing to derive some benefits for more efficiently using the raw material.
Pricing right now in TiO2 I would say that as I indicated earlier Europe has been the weakest market.
We don't know exactly the trend for TiO2 in the second half of the year and we're discussing right now second quarter pricing.
So I would say that the trends at this point seem to be slightly -- slight moderate or on a slight moderate decline on a global basis again mostly in Europe.
And I would say flat to overall in raw materials for the first half of the year.
Next question comes from Andy Cash from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just couple of things.
You mentioned in your release about how aerospace and the Performance Coatings was doing well solid demand.
Yesterday Textron had mentioned the business jet market is weak right now.
I'm just curious if you're just really a small supplier to the business jet market or is it more big jets? I mean why the difference there? Well I think there are several different market segments within business for general aviation.
And of that segment it's continued to do well for us.
Again some of our products are concentrated in let's call it the bigger iron in that bizjet market.
And overall we did see a slight improvement in volume overall for our business.
And so commercial aviation has continued to be a strength for the business over -- it's been now on a 1 to 2-year upcycle and that continued despite some of the qualification issues around the 787.
So we're still seeing good support there in commercial aviation and business aviation.
We're not probably as big a player overall and I think the market segments that we participate in are doing a little better.
And Andy this is Vince.
We also have a very big aftermarket presence that is much more stable.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay so that outweighs that.
Just one other question if I could.
I know you're just still integrating Akzo you're early days there.
But if you look at your overall store count and perhaps you're going to rationalize some stores.
But if you think about your company-owned stores over the next few years what kind of sort of growth rate should we anticipate there? Andy this is Michael.
If you look at it they have a very good network in Canada so we'll be adding stores in Canada.
The overlap was primarily in the southeast and southwest where we have the Porter stores and the Monarch stores so that's where we'll be looking to optimize the network there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes do you have a sort of a growth rate in mind? Do you know how many new stores you want to add once you sort of get things to sort of a steady state? We don't have a figure that we're willing to share right now but we're certainly looking to improve this store network that we've gone from 400 stores now to 1 000 so that will be a focus area for us.
Next question comes from Nils Wallin from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Quick one on architectural coatings.
It look likes year-on-year your revenues were down $60 million and depending on how we do the cost savings numbers and allocation cost savings I don't think explains all of that improved or excuse me the stability in the EBITDA part of that segment.
So would you help me understand what the other offsets might be in the architectural EMEA business that's contributing to this pretty good result despite very tough headwinds? I'll take that one.
Yes if you look at Europe we had very strong cost down performance.
We also had the restructuring gains.
In North America we also had a wee bit of price.
And if you look in other markets we did pretty well in that regard.
So cost is certainly a significant driver.
And then -- and Nil the cost again as Michael mentioned is really 2 buckets.
It's the restructuring savings that we've been implementing over the past 12 months.
And we haven't anniversary-ed last year's savings as of yet as well as what I would call discretionary costs that -- some of that given the volume drop that Chuck mentioned earlier more than 10% we were able to pull the lever on some of that discretionary cost.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just on the architectural in the U.S.
I mean mid to high single-digit in company-owned stores that sounds like some share gains compared to competitors.
Are you taking share in the company-owned store business or is there something else going on there? I don't believe we're taking share in that segment.
Next question comes from Charles Dan from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First could you give some sense to the magnitude of the increase in your U.S.
architectural business? I know you mentioned that it was up but sometimes you give a little more detail there? Magnitude of the -- in sales? We were up collectively in the U.S.
business about 3% which included higher growth in stores comparable growth in our national accounts and as Chuck mentioned earlier our dealer network was down.
Research Division</strong> And in your general industrial business could you give us a sense for the breakdown sort of by geography in terms of the trends? Well as Chuck mentioned Asia was up mid to high single-digits.
Europe was down mid to high single-digits and U.S.
was essentially neutral.
Next question comes from Ivan Marcuse from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just had a quick question.
On U.S.
commercial where -- which one of your businesses do you typically see is a leading indicator and it gives you a sign that it's coming back and are you seeing any signs that commercial construction or nonresidential construction is coming back in some way in the U.S.? Well the business unit that is the -- has the clearest indicator of commercial construction activity is the flat glass business.
It actually reports to Michael.
And there we've seen what I would call early signs that we are seeing improvement in U.S.
commercial construction it's because of the business -- our business is primarily focused here in the U.S.
If you look at the Architectural Billing Index that's up slightly but I would say that it's still lagging the recovery that we're seeing here in the U.S.
in residential but we believe it's coming.
So we think that this commercial construction activity is building it was the last to go into the recession.
It probably went in maybe 1.5 to 2 years later than the -- than residential in the previous decade.
So we think it's following a similar pattern but we're seeing early signs of improvement.
Next question comes from Kevin Hocevar from Northcoast Research.
Could you give a little more color on the introduction of the next-generation Transitions lenses in Europe? Could you kind of elaborate on how that's been going compared to your expectations better or worse or maybe compared to prior next-generation lenses? And also when is kind of a rollout date for the U.S.
with that product? The performance in the first quarter for our gen 7 Transitions in Europe was actually encouraging.
The overall European market for many of our other businesses as you've heard on the call was very weak.
So we were pleased that we saw strength in Europe from the introduction of gen 7.
We have better transmission gets darker better clarity and less temperature sensitivity.
So we feel that the product has real features and benefits that we are encouraged that the market is recognizing.
The introduction in North America is scheduled for late this year.
So you will see -- we feel a good growth opportunities towards the latter half of the second half.
So we're talking about the fourth quarter where we should see some improvement from the introduction of gen 7 here in North America.
So we're encouraged with what we see.
Okay and then just one quick follow-up.
The -- you expect to save as part of your couple year $140 million I believe is the number of cost savings.
You expected another $70 million to $80 million of incremental savings this year.
I just wonder if you could comment on how you have progressed toward that number.
And is there any additional possibilities especially given the -- kind of the prolonged outlook for European weakness to maybe even come at the high-end or maybe even higher than those levels? Kevin this is Vince again.
There's a couple of different numbers you threw out.
The $70 million to $80 million was the remainder we had on our restructuring program and that was a full year 2013 number.
We got just under $30 million of that in the first quarter.
We expect similar but slightly larger amount in the second quarter.
And then we're going to start to anniversary some of our savings from last year so we'll see lesser amounts later in the year and even a little minor spillover into next year.
The number you didn't mention was the $60 million of annual synergies we get as we close the Akzo acquisition.
Those were primarily fixed cost so they break out evenly per quarter.
So that would be roughly $15 million a quarter beginning immediately.
And then we have $140 million of first 3-year synergies from the Akzo acquisition.
As you can imagine we'll get very modest amounts in the next quarter or certainly 4 or 5 months as we begin the integration process.
Then we expect those to ramp up thereafter.
So hopefully that's what you were looking for.
Next question comes from Dmitry Silversteyn from Longbow Research.
A couple of questions.
If you look at the cost savings -- if you could just look at the restructuring cost savings that you talked about that's benefiting a number of your businesses.
Vince you mentioned that it's going to anniversary sometime this year.
Sort of what is the run rate once it anniversaries that we should be looking forward to carry over into 2014? Well from the time that we started the process we'll be looking at a run rate of about $140 million a year.
As you could see this past quarter it was about $30 million so that would be about a $120 million run rate.
So we still have a little bit more accretion per quarter.
But from beginning of last year using that as the index it would be about $140 million of savings once we get to let's say 2014.
Okay all right.
So there's still several tens of  millions of dollars on a year-over-year basis in restructuring benefits that you'll see in 2014? Yes we'll see some mild spillover into 2014.
Dmitry it's in the remaining quarters of 2013 that we'll see that incremental benefit.
But by the time we get to the first quarter of 2014 there'll be only a small portion of that $140 million cumulative savings yet to be realized for the first time.
Okay I was coming up with about $25 million but okay.
All right maybe it's smaller than that.
If you look at your -- the acquisition of Akzo have you and maybe you've already shared but I just don't remember.
Can you talk about what the incremental depreciation amortization is going to be for you guys that were -- put it differently what's the D&amp;A for the year including this business? We expected -- we're still working through the numbers Dmitry.
We won't have those finalized until later this year but if you look the business we're looking at about $40 million to $50 million of D&amp;A for the business on an annual basis.
After all the write-ups and everything so that's going to be the net adder? The net D&amp;A -- gross and net D&amp;A.
Okay very good.
And then you also mentioned some share gains in Europe in discussing your Industrial Coatings business.
So can you talk a little bit about that? And also have you seen any issues with heavy equipment or the ag equipment business that one of your competitors referred to seeing in the January quarter? Well the Industrial Coatings segment that we referenced the sales growth and the share gain has been in automotive OEM coatings.
And again as we discussed it was focused on new product introductions being with the right customers and the right plants.
So I would say that the sales growth momentum that we're seeing in the segment is primarily being driven by the automotive OEM segment.
Heavy-duty equipment that has been let's call it modest or flat growth so we've seen some weakness overall in the market.
In some regions Asia a little bit stronger Europe a little bit weaker very flat here in North America.
So again not seeing that same kind of overall growth for the market that we're talking about in automotive in heavy-duty equipment.
And we hope that that's a trend that reverses itself or we see a recovery of growth as the year goes on.
But you're not seeing a significant decline in demand in heavy equipment particularly in Asia.
You mentioned Asia was actually a little bit stronger for you? Yes we're not seeing a big decline.
There's been some discussions in the marketplace about will the mining or commodity segment be hurt by what we've seen over the last couple of months in the market for commodities or mining stocks.
The ag guys to me feel pretty strong right now.
But there's probably been a little more weakness compared to the ag guys in let's call it construction and mining equipment.
[Operator Instructions] We have a question from Richard O'Reilly from Revere Associates.
To help some of us with our commodity taxes can you talk about how much exposure you have now to natural gas without the chlorine business? This is Michael Richard.
Our exposure is down 75% and that leaves what's remaining the 75% of that is actually in our glass businesses both glass and fiberglass.
And that's becoming a less and lesser important commodity to us.
Sure.
How would natural gas compare with let's say the pie of stuff in the coatings business? Would it be as big as pigments or what would it be like? It's a much smaller number than pigments.
Okay fine okay.
And second quick or just a math question.
I thought the Akzo business was acquired for $1.05 billion yet you talked about cash of $900 million plus.
Am I wrong or what's the difference? Richard the value of the deal was announced at $1.05 billion.
The expected cash had originally been $875 million because of some deductions related to the pension plans in Canada that were being assumed so that would be the difference.
We ended up -- they put some additional cash into the plan before we closed.
So we ended up with an overall cash out for the acquisition of about $950 million.
I'd now like to hand the call back to Vince Morales for closing remarks.
Just want to thank everybody again for their time.
And if there's any further questions please feel free to contact me at Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes your call for today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining and have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the PPG Industries Second Quarter 2013 Conference.
My name is Shaquana and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Mr.
Vince Morales.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you.
This is Vince Morales.
Good afternoon.
Welcome to PPG Second Quarter 2013 Financial Teleconference.
Joining me from PPG today on the call is Chuck Bunch PPG's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Dave Navikas Senior Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer; and Frank Sklarsky Executive Vice President Finance.
Our comments relate to the financial information released today Thursday July 28 2013.
I will remind everybody that approximately 1 hour ago we posted detailed commentary and relating presentation slides on the Investor Center at ppg.com.
These slides are also available on the webcast site for this call and they provide additional support to the opening comments that Chuck will make momentarily.
Following Chuck's perspective on the company's results for the quarter we will move directly to Q&amp;A.
Both the prepared commentary and discussion during this call may contain forward-looking statements reflecting the company's current view about future events and their potential effect on PPG's operating and financial performance.
These statements involve uncertainties and risks which may cause actual results to differ.
The company is under no obligation to provide subsequent updates to these forward-looking statements.
Our presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial metrics.
The company has provided in the appendix in the presentation materials which are also available on our website reconciliation of these non-financial -- non-GAAP financial metrics to the most comparable GAAP financial metrics.
For additional information please refer to PPG's filings with the SEC.
Now let me introduce PPG's Chairman and CEO Chuck Bunch.
Thank you Vince and good afternoon everyone.
We appreciate your continued interest in PPG.
For the past several years under a variety of different economic circumstances we have delivered consistent earnings growth.
We are pleased to continue this trend as the second quarter financial results included all-time records for both sales and adjusted earnings per share.
Our adjusted earnings per share of $2.45 from continuing operations exceeds our prior record set last year.
Of equal importance this quarter we more than fully replaced the earnings per share reduction stemming from separating our former Commodity Chemicals business.
This record performance was achieved despite continued divergence in the level of economic activity in the major regions of the world.
During the quarter we benefited from generally modest but consistent growth in most North American end-use markets.
Solid growth also continued for all our Asian businesses except the marine coatings market.
Yet again demand in Europe was lower year-over-year although we are experiencing a fairly consistent pace of business in the region and a few of our businesses did achieve volume growth in that region this past quarter.
The major factors in our improved financial results were continued sales and earnings growth in several of our businesses including automotive OEM aerospace and automotive refinish; proactive and aggressive cost actions in all of our businesses including stringent discretionary cost management and continued benefit from our 2012 restructuring program; and higher sales and earnings benefits from cash deployed on recent coatings acquisitions.
As a result of these and other factors we delivered coatings segment earnings growth of 25% versus last year's record level.
Additionally each major region achieved higher earnings with North America more than 20% higher emerging regions growth of about 15% and higher European earnings of 8% despite the continued economic challenges in that region.
At the outset of the quarter we completed the acquisition of AkzoNobel's North American architectural coatings business.
Results for the acquired business were incorporated into our Performance Coatings segment along with PPG's companion legacy architectural business.
We were pleased with the business performance in this initial quarter as it is pacing slightly ahead of our target.
The business had sales of approximately $475 million and delivered an earnings return on sales of mid-single-digit percentages.
We realized $60 million of lower annual cost when the transaction closed benefiting this quarter by about $15 million.
In addition we achieved some other initial acquisition-related synergies.
We still have a great deal of work to do but remain confident that we will deliver our 3-year synergy target of $200 million annually.
To that end our Board of Directors just approved a $102 million restructuring program focused primarily on the synergy capture for the acquisition.
The program also includes targeted actions for certain businesses which continue to face challenging market conditions such as protective and marine coatings and certain European businesses including architectural coatings and fiberglass.
This restructuring program reflects the continued focus on operating and cost excellence which is what you have come to expect from PPG.
We anticipate the majority of the restructuring actions will be completed by the end of 2014.
One final comment on the second quarter is that it is typically our largest quarter from a seasonal perspective and we generally experience normal season trends in most businesses and regions.
Looking ahead to the third quarter we remain optimistic about our earnings growth momentum driven by many of the same factors that we experienced in the first half of the year.
This includes benefits from our recent acquisitions and proactive cost management.
We anticipate normal seasonal trends in our businesses and regions and expect several businesses such as automotive OEM and aerospace to remain growth drivers.
Our balance sheet remains very strong with about $1.8 billion of cash and short-term investments at quarter end.
We continue to analyze prudent cash deployment opportunities focused on growing our earnings and rewarding our shareholders.
Overall we continue to face mixed economic conditions and we were pleased to have delivered record results for our shareholders.
Thank you for your attention.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Now operator would you please give instructions and open the phone lines for questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy representing Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Question for you on the growth you're experiencing in Coatings.
I think you referenced to 25% growth on a year-over-year basis.
Just trying to parse how much was organic versus Akzo.
I think you threw out a sales number of $475 million times mid-single digit.
Would it be fair to say Akzo contributed $25 million or so in the quarter? Yes Kevin I think -- this is Vince.
I think that's a fair number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Very good.
And then on the new restructuring initiative of $102 million is that exclusively part of your $200 million synergy goal looking out to 2015? Or are there other areas of the company where you're taking additional cost actions at this point? Kevin this is Dave Navikas.
Of the charge that we took about 60% of it relates to the Akzo North American integration and the remainder relates to other actions in some of our other businesses where there are still weak demand conditions.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then a final question I had was on Europe.
I guess you're running minus 4% there according to one of your slides versus minus 7% or minus 8% in the prior couple of quarters.
Chuck I think you mentioned in your prepared comments that you were seeing certain businesses that were actually growing and I was wondering if you could elaborate on that and maybe talk about where you might be seeing growth in the region.
Well growth I would say in the region is very challenged right now Kevin.
If you look at several of our businesses like aerospace and packaging we still have growth in those businesses.
However if you look at the automotive markets or the architectural markets those are businesses where from an overall market standpoint we're still seeing negative growth.
Your next question comes from the line of David Begleiter.
Research Division</strong> This is Ram Sivalingam sitting in for David.
Just a quick question on ROS given that we're past the height of the paint production season.
How are you thinking about TiO2 pricing in the back half of the year? And also any update you can give on your use and [ph] reductions of TiO2 would be helpful.
TiO2 pricing for the second half we're in discussions now so it would be too early.
We're -- to comment we're looking overall at stable raw material pricing in the second half of the year.
We continue to have success in terms of improving our productivity in our formulations for TiO2 usage.
We hit our targets last year in the 4% to 5% range.
And this year we're on track for hitting those targets which we defined this year as closer to 2% to 3%.
The next question comes from the line of Robert Koort representing Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Chuck the decremental margins in glass were pretty ugly and sales looked like they changed by $4 million and profits by $15 million.
Is there something in the near term that can reverse that? Or should we expect that same kind of pain from the fixed cost leverage? Or what exactly do you think is causing that? Well we had -- it was a disappointing quarter for actually both business units in glass for slightly different reasons.
In our flat glass business we had a poor quarter from a let's call it manufacturing and supply chain performance.
We also saw some volume declines as we looked at some of our end-use markets like solar that were lower and we didn't get enough of a pickup on the commercial construction side which is our biggest market for that business.
We also saw some year-over-year licensing revenue that was lower.
So I would expect that the third quarter we're going to improve our operating performance.
And so I expect the flat glass business to still be challenged but not to the same level that they were in the second quarter.
On the fiberglass side we had lower volumes especially in Europe and we had lower equity earnings out of our PFG joint venture in Asia which is targeted at the electronics market.
So I don't expect a significant improvement on the fiberglass side.
We had pretty good results here in North America.
But I would say that we are looking to improve slightly over what you saw in the second quarter but certainly I think we're going to face some of the same challenges here in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> And if I might follow up on the U.S.
architectural side your same-store sales looked pretty strong in your stores but through the big box less exciting.
I know Sherwin this morning had a similar comment about its non-store business.
So was there something that's not quite as exciting in the DIY markets? Was this a function of just a couple of lost business lines? Or what do you attribute to the less robust non-stores business in the U.S.
architectural? Well in the 2 other channels I would say you mentioned that we did lose price points at one of our major North American home center accounts.
This was on the let's call it the legacy PPG side so that accounted for some of the lower comps.
We also have seen some weakness in what we would call the independent dealer channel which is an important channel for both the PPG legacy business plus the newly acquired business.
And the dealers we found were a little cautious.
We had what I would call a second quarter -- is a -- weather and some other factors were not helping us as much as they were last year.
We still think there's good growth there but right now the dealers were quite cautious in the second quarter as well.
So that's why the numbers weren't as robust for us as we would have hoped outside of the store channel.
Your next question comes from the line of Don Carson representing Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Yes Chuck question a couple of questions on restructuring and cash redeployment.
First on Transitions I know earlier this year you indicated you were in some discussions with Essilor about future ownership structure of that business.
Can you update us on that or give us a timeline and maybe indicate what the attractiveness of being in that business going forward is as opposed to be more of a coatings play? And then just if you could comment on the coatings acquisition pipeline are you at a point where if you don't do any additional deals this year you might up your share repurchase targets of $500 million to $750 million? Well Don we are still in discussions with Essilor relating to the future of Transitions Optical so at this point we do not have any additional comments on that subject.
As far as the redeployment of cash we are working the acquisition pipeline actively.
We were able to complete not only the Akzo North American architectural acquisition in April but we completed in May the Deft acquisition smaller bolt-on but quite successful.
We were really pleased that this was going to be a positive for our aerospace business.
And we're actively working the acquisition pipeline.
We have several we think good potential opportunities but obviously we're going to keep working them and hope to bring them in.
And we're pleased with our integration activities here with the Akzo business.
We do think that it is -- although a challenge we are responding very well lots of work but lots of progress.
So we're optimistic with the results of these latest acquisitions including Spraylat which we announced at the end of last year.
So we're more confident that we can continue to make acquisitions and successfully integrate them and achieve the targets that we set.
And if we however are not able to consummate these deals if you look at that the range of share buybacks between $500 million and $750 million we would be looking to move that up into the upper end of the range if we can't bring in any new targets.
And obviously as we approached year end if we don't feel as confident about the acquisition opportunities we would certainly look at that overall target that we've set for ourselves in share buybacks.
Your next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar representing Citi.
Research Division</strong> You had talked about a potential rebranding strategy in architectural paint particularly for the Glidden brand in different channels.
Any update on that? And then secondly you talked about load share.
Was there any share loss at Home Depot for the Akzo business? We are not in a position right now to announce any change in the branding strategy for the Akzo North American business.
It's been little over 3 months.
It all hands on deck trying to get through the integration and ensure that all the customers are being supplied and serviced in a way consistent or better than they were prior to the acquisition.
So we're working on that but we're not in a position to announce anything right now.
And I think your second question P.J.
was it Home Depot? There was no shelf space or share loss at Home Depot on the acquired business.
Research Division</strong> And secondly on automotive OEM you are growing 2 to 3x the market.
How long can that continue? I know a competitor that exited their business sort of lost some share towards the end.
So can you just talk about the competitive dynamic in that market? Our competitive dynamics it's always been a very competitive market.
It's not a market however that you see a lot of share gains or losses in the short term.
These are usually longer-term decisions that the automotive manufacturers make typically around model years or when they are starting new production.
I think we've been well positioned in the past few years with several new technologies that we've introduced that have been well received by our automotive customers.
We have been also well placed with many of the plants that have continued in service as the industry is restructured.
And we're very well positioned in the markets where we've seen either the largest recovery or the most growth.
So if you look at the North American market we are very well positioned.
We're #1 in this market and we are also #1 in the Chinese market.
So if you look at overall where are you seeing the best performance from the automotive industry we're well placed in the areas where it's really growing.
We have good technologies.
We had a consistent strategy so we continued to do well.
But I don't see these things as either short term in nature.
These are longer-term trends.
And if we continue to do the things that we've been doing and the markets continue to hold up well then I think this is a level of performance that we expect to continue.
Your next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch representing Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm looking at -- very pleased to hear about the progress on the Akzo deal doing a bit better than anticipated.
And you had raised your cost-reduction targets the last call from $160 million to $200 million.
And looking at the math you originally targeted 10% margin on that business but with that upgrade it's looking more like 12% or 13%.
What are the chances that we might see you bring that all the way up a couple more points? And how confident are you and that $200 million -- in that $200 million number? And might we see some changes going on there in terms of synergy? Well Frank we feel very good about the $200 million synergy number.
We're ahead of our targets for realization of that and I think we have a path forward.
At this point we're not raising the synergy targets for the acquisition but there's a lot of hard work ahead of us.
So we know that we haven't been -- we've just begun the capture all of those opportunities but we feel increasingly confident.
And -- but at this point we still feel that $200 million is a good target.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right great.
And in terms of getting the margins up even higher than that 13% or so? In the Performance Coatings segment or...
LLC Research Division</strong> The Akzo business.
Oh the Akzo business well I think that we're going to see how this thing plays out and I'm sure we're going to share more information with the investors as the year goes on.
This is -- we're 3 months into this feel good but there's a lot of heavy lifting.
So at this point we're not going to change any of the projections or targets that we have yet.
LLC Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
Now obviously year to date Mr.
Navikas has a little bit been slow on this on the share repurchase side given where you want to get to by the end of the year.
And obviously you are examining some other opportunities out there in terms of bolt-ons and so on.
To that end were you surprised to see the Mexican reject the Comex deal? And is that a business that might be interesting for you? And do you think you might have better luck going in after Comex? We've been in a PPG board meeting this morning so although I've heard those comments I haven't seen any of the press releases so I'm not really in a position to comment on what's transpired with that potential acquisition and I wouldn't have any comment on our potential interest with that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi representing Baird.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a rough estimate of the weather impact on your European architectural business? I think it was down 8% for the quarter.
And do you think that some of that was delayed into the third quarter because of the weather? Or is it just sort of lost opportunity for the industry? Well I don't think the weather -- the weather hasn't been good the first half of the year.
It wasn't good in the first quarter.
It wasn't especially good in the second quarter either.
We hope things are going to get better.
Some of the weather impact in the second quarter was -- we have leading positions in many of the country markets in Eastern Europe and they were heavily impacted by the flooding.
And so I think there were some volume declines resulting in that.
But I would say to blame most of this volume decline on Eastern European flooding would be a stretch or maybe a couple of percentage points yes but the rest of it was overall market weakness in many of the key market areas.
And we're not seeing a recovery in any of the markets except the U.K.
The U.K.
trade market I think has been slightly improved and I think the U.K.
economic recovery is maybe just a step ahead of what we've seen so far in Europe.
So I would say weather is sometimes a short-term factor but we have 2 quarters now fairly weak activity in Europe.
We think we've stabilized and the comparables should get better.
So -- but you've seen our performance.
I mean the thing that's most encouraging with our performance and our results is even despite the weak volume in the European architectural market our teams are delivering.
They're working really hard to execute on the restructuring plans and to drive our cost and productivity.
So we feel pretty good about the overall earnings and the cash performance despite the weaker top line.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the marine build market can you share your perspective on whether this market is closer to bottom maybe from talking to your customers? That would be helpful.
Well the marine market I think has surprised all of us with the level of weakness.
When we looked at the marine new-build market in the second quarter it was down a little over 30% in Asia which is as you know the predominant region for marine newbuilds.
So it has been probably a decline that even by historical standards was much sharper than anything that we'd experienced.
Now as we look at our performance during this time I think the comparables are going to start getting a little better even though we're still going to see negative growth numbers.
So I think the third quarter we're going to still see some declines maybe not as sharp as what I've just described here in the second quarter.
And we are winning our share of new business that we hope we would see in -- by the middle of next year as they would start to rebuild from this very low level.
So I would say that I'm more optimistic going forward that I think the second quarter will be our lowest point in terms of year-over-year comparables especially for our sales.
We'll start to see some improvement in this rate of decline over the next couple of quarters not nearly as dramatic as what we've seen here especially by the time we get to the fourth quarter.
And we may begin then to see some improvement as we move through 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of John McNulty representing Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> With regard to cash flow your cash flows were up pretty significantly year-over-year despite maybe not having the cash machine which was your commodity platform.
So can you walk us through some of the changes? You highlighted working capital in the prepared remarks.
Can you kind of walk us through kind of what's happened there and then also if you think that's sustainable going forward? John this is Dave Navikas.
If we look at the working capital results particularly in our coatings businesses we certainly saw the result of some concerted effort really over the last several quarters that board approved here for us in Q2 good inventory performance from a reduction perspective in all of the businesses.
The improvement that we saw in working capital both inventory and receivables was spread through all of the businesses.
So I think it's a positive that this was an across-the-board kind of improvement good performance from a receivable collection perspective so percent current in good shape.
So we're pleased to see the results here in the second quarter and certainly our expectations will be to keep the focus on this area and hopefully be able to retain the improvements that we see here.
Research Division</strong> And then just with regard to M&amp;A and the opportunities that you see out there you're in the middle of putting Akzo into your current portfolio.
How much more bandwidth do you have in terms of the size and scale of potential acquisitions out there? And then maybe just one quick follow-up if you comment as to whether or not you have architectural exposure down in Mexico? Bandwidth in terms of size of capabilities financial -- let's just look at the capabilities of the organization.
Obviously this is a big deal for us with Akzo North America here for our North American architectural business.
I think we're stepping up.
I'm quite pleased.
We've made a couple of acquisitions including SigmaKalon 5 years ago that were even bigger in terms of size or scale.
So I think we've proven that we can take on some of the largest businesses out there.
So there are few -- there were fewer large top 10 kind of companies that would still be considered for sale in play.
So I would say that the opportunities are still out there for the small and mid-sized companies.
We certainly have the financial resources to -- and the borrowing capacity to step up from there.
So I feel quite confident that we'll be able to both in terms of the integration and the financial capacity we certainly have capabilities to do whatever we would like to do in the coatings space.
And then Mexico I think John the other part of your question we have a very good business in Mexico in our automotive and industrial businesses smaller positions on the other coatings side but a very what I would call a small position in architectural coatings in Mexico.
Your next question comes from the line of Laurence Alexander representing Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
First do you expect your automotive sales to grow sequentially in Q3? And in Europe how far out do you feel you'd be to look to feel comfortable that you should get back to flat to slightly positive year-over-year comparisons? Sequential sales for automotive OEMs are -- in the third quarter are usually down.
So if you look -- they have in Western Europe or in Europe they have August shutdowns which I think we'll see again this year given the weakness of the market.
Here there is a usually a July shutdown.
And I think we're seeing more traditional seasonal or third quarter pattern here in North America for the auto build.
Last year we didn't have as much of an effect because they were still recovering from the effects of the Japanese tsunami and the strength of the market that began to really recover in -- early in last year.
So I think we're going to have more seasonal patterns in the third quarter both here and in Europe and that would indicate that it would be typically lower than the second quarter sales.
And the second part of that was? What's your second question Laurence I'm sorry? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sorry just on Europe how far out do you need to look to see positive comparisons? I mean do you have any confidence on that? Well I would -- yes if you look at -- we've been probably a little surprised by the weakness of the European economy and some of the key markets.
So we've been very encouraged by our performance of course and we've been delivering on the bottom line and in cash flow.
If you look in the year-over-year comparisons I'd say to turn positive certainly not for the balance of this year.
I think we're still going to see 2 quarters coming up here in the second half that'll continue to be negative from a European auto build standpoint.
I'm not talking about our performance because we still feel good about that but if you look at the overall market certainly in the next 2 quarters I think it's going to be down.
Now when you look this year the first quarter was abnormally weak.
So could you start to see more stability when we go into 2014? I certainly hope so.
And that's my feeling.
Although when we'll see positive upturn from that the market is still fairly pessimistic when you talk to a lot of the participants.
But what happened here in North America as this -- the crisis rolled through the automotive industry there was no optimism at all.
In fact many of the so-called experts were saying we'd never get to 9 million or 10 million builds again and the whole market had forever moved away.
But now you see us moving past 15 million builds sales getting into the 16 million range here in North America.
So my hope is that even if we don't have a sharper recovery in Europe at some point we will stabilize and see some growth.
And that could start happening next year but in the near term I'm not looking for that recovery.
Your next question comes from the line of John Roberts representing UBS.
Research Division</strong> The latest deep dive that you did with investors was on packaging coatings and it had an okay quarter.
It was low single digit kind of everywhere.
But it sounded like from that deep dive that's a business that should be accelerating over the next year maybe not longer than 2 years and that it has the potential to get to be a high single low double-digit grower for a period at least through the BPA conversion? Right.
And we're still pleased with our packaging business unit.
The best opportunities in terms of overall demand and consumption is in Asia.
So the business is still quite strong in Asia.
And I think that's where you're going to see those types of demand or growth numbers.
Obviously the other opportunity that they talked about was these development as you mentioned of the BPA non-intent and we're actively working on our formulations qualifications.
We're seeing the market gradually turn.
And we're seeing a number of food companies not only in the baby food but recently Coca-Cola in France as an example is introducing the BPA non-intent coatings in those markets.
And that should give us an opportunity for further growth.
So based on increasing consumption in the developing world led by Asia but also Eastern Europe and Central Europe and the technology advances associated with BPA non-intent as an example give us optimism that we will continue to see good growth in the packaging coatings business.
The next question comes from the line of Ivan Marcuse representing KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Real quick on the European architectural business.
The improvement in EBITDA how much of that was -- was that all cost savings or did you have some benefit from price cost raw materials? Ivan almost every single penny and more was cost savings.
Volumes were down as we articulated and we overcame that with what I would call discretionary cost management as well as the 2002 restructuring program savings that we're still implementing.
Research Division</strong> Is the restructuring in Europe -- is this is almost done and are all the cost savings through there or will that continue for another couple of quarters? If you look at our 2002 program Ivan -- I'm so sorry 2012 program the 2012 program targeted $140 million of savings.
We were about $30 million away from that so we'll see some savings in the back half of the year still.
But they're starting to diminish as we anniversary some of the actions because we still have some savings in the back half of the year related to that original program that we initiated last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question.
You mentioned that the dealer network in the U.S.
was -- or the independent dealer for architectural was fairly cautious.
The weather I guess has improved at least the past couple of weeks.
So would you expect then to have -- that segment to be a lot stronger in the third quarter? Or is there a reason that they would remain cautious especially with housing being as strong as it is? Well we feel that the independent dealer channel will improve here in the third quarter from what we've been seeing.
We've been I guess a little surprised that it hasn't been stronger.
Some markets though kind of the independent dealers don't participate in as much.
So if you look at the store growth the comp store growth that we talked about you have some different markets that company-owned stores service including a new homebuilders and the like.
And the independent dealers typically don't go after some of those markets where we've probably seen the strongest growth as new home construction up over 20% as an example.
So I think the dealers are being somewhat cautious here.
And I think that the third quarter assuming that they've been cautious on their buying patterns we'd see a little -- a better performance in the third quarter because overall we still see the market as good.
Yes you can say some segments are a little better than others.
Commercial is not -- it's improving but at lower growth rates.
So we still think that this is going to be a good year for us in architectural.
And I think the dealers will participate in that improvement and I just don't think we've seen it is as much.
And of course this is true two-step distribution in the case of the dealers.
So many times they buy during window periods and then either hold less or more inventories where in the store network you're almost direct-to-customer.
So I would -- although we don't track it directly I think the dealers are sitting on fairly conservative inventories.
So if we have continued improvement we should see for next quarter some improved comps.
Your next question comes from the line of Nils Wallin representing CLSA.
Research Division</strong> A couple here on the marine industry just curious one if your business in the marine segment is still generating positive cash flow? And then also given how much weakness we've seen over the last couple of quarters what you're seeing in terms of competitors whether you expect any type of shakeout from -- because of the weak market? So the first question is the marine results for protective -- well we have a broader business unit it's Protective and Marine Coatings.
So we -- in that business unit we're also supplying power plants industrial complexes infrastructure and the like.
But if you just look at the marine business it's still profitable both on an EBIT or EBITDA and has positive cash flow.
So at this point I would not say that -- we are certainly not looking to get out of the marine coatings business.
This is a sharper cycle but we plan to ride it through.
And I'm not aware at this point of any of the global marine players that is planning on exiting the market.
The market is much more consolidated today than it has been in the past.
There are 4 or 5 major global players.
And at this point I think that we are just planning to ride it out.
But we have profitable sales and cash flow right now.
But it is certainly off of the levels that we were seeing in 2011 or in the early 2000 -- first half of 2012.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Do you think that in this process of returning to more normal that it normalizes at a lower level? Or can it get back to the previous peak? Well I would say that yes there was probably like in some global industries there was probably a little bit of a marine new build bubble.
And so I think if you look at what was happening if we go back to 2000 -- let's say from second half of 2010 to the first half -- through the first half of 2012 that 2-year period was probably in retrospect or hindsight maybe a little bit of a bubble.
There was a view that all these ships were going to service this growing global trade and that the market was going to be able to absorb all these new fuel-efficient ships.
And I think that some of that will play out in the longer-term but I think as we saw here in the U.S.
housing market bubble and the subsequent bust sometimes when -- you're going to have to endure this period and the strongest players survive.
And we feel that there's nothing in the market longer-term that's discouraged us.
These are the types of let's say more challenging technologically for our customers and our chemistry problems and issues to solve for our customers.
So this is a market that we belong in.
I mean we paint cars boats planes.
And the tougher the better for us.
So we feel that this is a market we're going to bring a lot of value to over the years and okay we're going to have to ride out this lower end of the cycle.
But long-term we feel good about the business.
Research Division</strong> So just if I may just follow-on.
I mean do you think you can do in marine or replicate in marine what you've done so far and create results in auto OEM in terms of bringing that technology to that market on the downturn? Yes well we are continuing because the problems are the same.
In fact if you look at -- one of the biggest issues in the marine coatings industry or the marine industry is fuel efficiency.
This is a cost and an environmental issue for the large ship builders or any of the owners and both the ship owners and the shipping company.
So they're looking for solutions all the time.
Better products better technology and this is an area that we thrive in in our businesses.
So we think that we can bring a lot of solutions over time.
When you have a downturn of -- this steep you're going to have to I think take corrective action.
The reason we've been able to stay as profitable and positive from a cash flow standpoint is -- and as we've talked about in our European businesses we've been taking cost out getting more productive focusing on the right customers and the right business.
The Korean business has held up better than the Chinese markets because these are more specific higher purpose.
These are also drilling ships that are going after oil and other natural resources.
So the market hasn't been quite as tough as your more commodity-oriented just oceangoing container vessels.
So I think these are areas where longer-term technology will prevail.
We've got a lot of things that are going to help not only improve the painting life but get at this key driver around the fuel efficiency for these oceangoing vessels.
So yes we feel good about what we're bringing into market and we're going to ride it out and things will be better.
And I hope that in subsequent calls we're going to be talking about yes this thing has started to turn.
But this quarter wasn't our best certainly in terms of market performance.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Nocella representing RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Chuck just as the raw material environment stabilize here how are you seeing the pricing dynamics playing out across your coatings businesses? In terms of -- we are looking for stability in terms of raw material pricing environment as well as our pricing initiatives.
So right now we see this as a stable period on both sides of the value chain.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then within auto refinish you mentioned solid growth outside of Europe.
This has been somewhat of a slower growth business recently so do you think we're seeing an inflection point here? Well the toughest market in auto refinish has been Europe.
We've seen good growth in Asia-Pacific and in particular China that's the fastest growing auto park in the world.
We're well positioned there.
We're the leading player in automotive refinish in China.
So we see good growth there.
And then the rest of the world outside of Europe we feel that we have a very strong position with the new water-based technologies for automotive refinish.
That's positioned us well.
And so where there is growth in the market we're -- we feel we're doing well.
In Europe despite this leading water-based technology things are weaker there.
As I also mentioned in one of our other markets automotive refinish typically is a two-step distribution process.
And we saw this during the last let's call it economic crisis 3 or 4 years ago in Europe even though automotive refinish is a very stable market sometimes our customers these two-step distributors will take inventories down in the near term and try to run tighter and get through these periods.
So sometimes we can have a little stronger -- a little more of a cyclical effect there than you would see in the overall market.
So Europe yes has been weaker.
We think it will come back as the overall market it is still going to be there.
And outside of Europe we feel pretty good about what's going on.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And are you gaining share on refinish like OEM or is it a little bit more competitive? It's harder to track.
I would say we feel good about the position that we're in.
Certainly I wouldn't say that there has been any major share shifts but usually it takes a while for any data to get out there.
It's not tracked as well or as easily as the OEM side.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Hocevar representing Northcoast Research.
Most of my questions have been answered at this point but I was wondering if you could comment on the silica demand.
It seems like that improved a bit during the quarter and I've noticed that there's been a nice uptick in tire shipment data that's come back out the last couple of months.
So I'm just wondering if you're seeing a commensurate increase in the tire production side of things and if that's what's driving demand for silica? For precipitated silica the tire market is the biggest end-use market and we think we're well-positioned in the broader precipitated silica industry to serve the needs of the let's say let's call it the green tire movement that we see in the tire companies where they're trying to improve mileage.
Precipitated silica gives improved rolling resistance so we can actually improve the mileage of the cars.
And with CAFE standards in this country or what's happening around the world we're seeing an uptick in demand for our products.
And I think over and above the growth that we've seen in tires.
So we feel good about that market and well-positioned and yes we had a good quarter in the second quarter.
Okay.
And then a final question just on the synergy targets for Akzo just to follow-up on that.
I believe in the past you stated that $30 million to $40 million in incremental savings over and above the $60 million of savings realized upon closing are expected to be realized in the first 12 months.
Now you say $102 million by the end of 2014.
Does that $30 million to $40 million increase at all over the first 12 months of owning Akzo? No Kevin.
If you look of the restructuring charge that we just announced the $102 million that's the charge that's not the savings first of all.
The majority of that as Dave mentioned is earmarked to the Akzo business we acquired and our legacy business and are embedded in that synergy number.
There is a piece of that that's not -- that would be what I would call new restructuring savings.
The $30 million to $40 million hasn't moved.
From April of this year until April of next year we're still targeting $30 million to $40 million of cost synergies.
And again that's on top of the day one synergies.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas representing JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you tell us what organic pro forma change in revenues was for the acquired AkzoNobel business? Jeff it was right around flat.
Research Division</strong> It's right around flat? Correct.
Research Division</strong> All right.
In general do you see the do-it-yourself market in the United States really slowing down and the do-it-for-me market really accelerating in the current environment? I would say we haven't -- this trend we haven't seen any changes.
It's -- and I would say if you look at the market although we did well in our stores channel relative to our national account position I wouldn't say that there's any -- you wouldn't see I think in this shorter term any change.
And the one comment I would make on just your question around Akzo North America business the Canadian market was a little weaker in -- this second quarter our first quarter of ownership for the business.
They are I think they've been challenged by the same weather conditions.
It's been pretty cold up there short season.
And their housing cycle is maybe a little different than ours.
They're not -- they don't have the same kind of growth from this very low level.
They maintained pretty stable position in terms of overall housing starts and overall construction market during the crisis.
So right now I would say the market up there is more stable.
And they had a rougher second quarter I think in terms of the weather than even we had down here.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly was there much sequential change in coatings raw materials in the quarter? No Jeff.
If you look the raw material pricing has been fairly consistent.
As we came into Q2 we felt it would be it and remained that way.
And then it will remain that way heading into Q3 as Chuck mentioned earlier.
Research Division</strong> Are there any more charges to come with Akzo after the one you're taking? No Jeff.
There are not.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Young representing Chemspeak.
My question relates to any changes in your long-term procurement strategy for raw materials? And along those lines where do you stand on your licensing agreement with Billions? Long-term procurement strategy for us we've been trying -- we've had centralized global purchasing of raw materials for many years.
And we continue to operate that with the same type of organization and strategy.
As we've seen all of this growth for our coatings businesses in Asia and in Europe over the last few years we think it's going to be a continuation of the same.
And the opportunity and the agreement with Billions will give us we think as they continue their commitment to continue to grow their position in the global TiO2 industry we think we have a good opportunity with them and with a number of our other suppliers to continue to grow with them participate.
We've talked -- we had an announcement recently about our Argex commercial development agreement.
This is a startup company in Canada as an example.
So we continue to expand as we globalize and expanded our coatings business expand our relationships with both the traditional and conventional sources of supply but also new and emerging sources of supply or suppliers in Asia or other startup businesses around the world.
So we're pretty confident that our strategy remains the same but we're going to take advantage of some of the new opportunities that we see developing especially in the emerging regions.
Your next question comes from the line of Duffy Fischer representing Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
One on the optical business in Asia and China in particular.
I've seen a few things written that looked like they're a little bit cryptic but would give you the sense that maybe you don't have the perfect positioning as far as price points go there with the Transitions business because there's a lower quality lower price that seems to be taking some share.
Can you comment how you think you're set up for the Asia and the China market with Transitions? Well in Asia in general the Transitions product lines are traditionally premium products that service high-valued customers that look for the features and benefits that you get from Transitions lens.
And we do very well in Asian markets like Australia New Zealand like the key city states the Hong Kong Shanghai and Singapore.
But a big part of the market in these emerging regions is the let's call it the mid-tier of that pure consumer pyramid from kind of low to low-tier to high-value add.
And so we are trying to differentiate our offerings in Transitions so that we would not just try to service the very high end of that pyramid.
And I think that we've seen progress that we've made with some of our product introductions in the region where we're trying to capture more of that growth in the mid-tier price points.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on Axalta have you seen any difference in their behavior as they would face customers in the change of ownership? We haven't really seen that.
It's been just a few months in the marketplace.
And so both from an OEM standpoint or refinish I wouldn't comment on anything that we've seen from them over the last few months.
I think it's too early to make any commentary on what we're seeing.
Your next question comes from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn representing Longbow Research.
Couple of questions if I may.
When you were talking about mid-single digit profitability for the Akzo business was that on the EBITDA line or the EBIT line? It was EBIT.
Okay.
So all right I got it.
So that includes the $15 million incremental that you got from not picking up the liabilities? Includes the $60 million day one synergies or about $15 million a quarter plus some additional synergies yes.
Got it.
Second question your gross margin if you look at sort of over year-over-year on the company overall obviously because you don't break it down by segments.
It was up about 1 point and your operating margin was down by about 1 point.
So the incremental SG&amp;A expense as it relates to offsetting the gross margin sort of what were the key drivers in terms of either business units or divisions that accounted for that? Dmitry the main driver by far was the Akzo business which is a distribution-oriented business including the stores and other selling costs associated with the distribution business.
And if you look at our traditional distribution businesses of that nature they carry a heavier SG&amp;A component.
So it sounds like Akzo was a contributor to the gross margin but a detractor from the operating margin? Yes it has a much lower obviously has a much lower at this point EBIT return on sales.
So it's definitely a detractor to the corporation at this point.
But I think it's interesting if I may observe this that the gross margin profitability does not seem to be all that onerous compared to your other coating businesses or other people's coatings businesses.
Is it fair to say that the margin issues that Akzo has been facing forever is related to SG&amp;A and that's something that you guys can get your hands around fairly quickly? No again I think if you look at traditionally an architectural business it has a heavy distribution component.
It typically has a lot more SG&amp;A which is again all the cost of the stores.
But a high...
But a high gross margin.
It has store cost promotional costs all the stuff that goes into selling to frontline consumers.
Got it.
And then final question on the automotive aftermarket we've had several quarters going back to the end of 2012 when this segment and this industry was identified as a problem when it came to growth and something that impacted your Performance Coatings business.
This quarter you obviously talked about this being a contributor to the growth that you've seen in the quarter.
The carpark didn't get younger and certainly not in North America over the last year to sort of justify increased repairs.
Is it the weather being slicker out there and more collisions I mean sort of what -- did something change in the industry or some sense on these trends in -- and we just have to be conscious of? Well let's be clear.
The automotive refinish business has never been a problem for PPG.
And I would say that the growth that we're seeing this year probably on the flip side of -- some of this weather discussion on architectural -- actually bad weather especially in the wintertime or the spring actually helps this business.
So you may have some increment of business that comes from all the snow and inclement weather we had in North America.
And oftentimes what you see as the economy isn't improving as it is now is that people -- during the recession many people were getting the cash-outs from the insurance companies but not having their cars repaired.
And so they were just putting that in their pocket and then waiting until they felt more confident in the economy or their jobs.
And I think that's what you're seeing here is that yes the economy overall is doing better.
People are more confident.
And regardless of what we've seen even with all these new car builds hasn't really affected overall the average age of the carpark.
I think what you're seeing is some positive weather more usage with the water-based technology and the opportunities that that's giving us.
And I think there's more of a propensity to repair cars that have been in collisions because the economy overall is better.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Dan representing Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to clarify all the sort of comments you've talked about the trends for your U.S.
architectural business.
And it was down a bit year-over-year on a revenue basis excluding Akzo it sounded like this quarter.
Your expectation is for lower sequentially next quarter.
Would you -- does that also translate into down on a year-over-year basis next quarter? Or are you -- because I don't recall that it was a particularly tough comp this quarter so could you just clarify that? Charlie if you look at our volume performance in Q2 we were down very modestly year-over-year.
And up in stores and down in national accounts and dealers as Chuck mentioned.
The dealer we hope has some recovery next quarter.
Stores has been a very consistent performer for us and we expect that to continue.
And the dislocation in the national accounts has come from the product the 2 price points we discussed earlier that we lost in the national accounts and that's not going to change in Q3.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So putting all that together you're still expecting revenue growth on an organic basis in the third quarter? I think we're -- it's a fine line of whether we're positive or negative but we're not -- it's just if we could predict the future we would tell you that but it's not -- we were not very negative in Q2 and we would hope to be positive in Q3 EBIT [ph].
Your next question comes from the line of Richard O'Reilly representing Revere Associates.
Two quick questions.
One is I want to follow-up with the marine.
Typically or historically what part of your marine coatings is new build versus maintenance refinish? 25% of the marine and coatings -- the Marine and Protective Coatings business is new builds.
And if you just isolate it on marine itself it's about half and half between OEM new builds and aftermarket.
Okay fine.
Is there a mothballing of existing ships? And if so would they come out first before the new builds pick up and therefore some ships would have to be recoated quickly or early on? That's an interesting question because there is -- there are ships that are just parked.
If you go to Singapore you have dozens of ships in the harbor that are -- don't have anything to ship right now.
So they're just sitting there.
But you've seen it in the commercial airline industry.
If you look at the success we've seen from Boeing and Airbus there's a lot of mothballed planes but they keep building new ones because they're more fuel-efficient they have higher technology.
So you're still going to see some of this.
So I think some of these ships that are parked around the world waiting for cargo to go somewhere they may never come back in service.
But there will be some demand for ships that are either more fuel-efficient easier from a maintenance standpoint or they're serving specific needs.
Second question on the prepared comments for the Industrial Coatings product line.
There was a statement that said overall results by general industrial end-use markets remain mixed and I assume it means -- you don't mean geographic you mean custom or application end markets.
Can you elaborate a little more on what's negative or what's positive? Well within the let's call it the general industrial or what -- we have an industrial strategic business unit and an Industrial Coatings segment.
I mean the product line.
Yes.
And within that Industrial Coatings business unit we have different end-use markets.
So if you look -- probably the strongest component is automotive parts for PPG.
That business is in Industrial Coatings.
That's not serving -- supplying coatings to General Motors or Mercedes and the like.
That's for all the parts either under the hood in the chassis or some of the parts that get assembled later.
That's the strongest end-use market right now in that general industrial business.
The coil and extrusion coatings that hasn't been very strong because that's been tied again as steel industry and some of the commercial construction not as strong.
Electronics if you look within electronics personal computers that take a lot of coatings.
That's been down.
Coatings on smartphones up but surface area that hasn't been as good.
Appliance Coatings good here in North America because we have a nice construction and housing recovery.
Poor in Europe because overall construction markets are weak.
So it's really a broad market business unit lots of different end-use plays.
So that gives you an idea of kind of some of the puts and takes within the business by end-use market and by region.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Stafford representing Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> With lower TiO2 prices this is maybe less of a concern but could you update us on your progress and targets to reduce TiO2 consumption in Coatings? I think we commented on that earlier but last year we said our target was 4% to 6% productivity or within our formulations of usage not taking TiO2 out of the formulas but using it more effectively.
We said that we were in the range of 4% to 5% last year in terms of improving that productivity use of TiO2.
This year lesser target.
We've gotten some of those savings last year and we've said it's going to be probably closer to 3% in the range of improved usage given the same type of end-use applications in the formula.
And a lot of this is also using other high-value added chemical molecules in our formulations and actually improving the overall performance of the coating even if we use less TiO2 and substitute it with some of the newer developed molecules we've seen from some of our suppliers.
And they're really doing good work here and we're incorporating a lot of these new technologies in our formulations.
So we really feel good about the performance of our suppliers in helping us achieve these targets.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Morales for closing remarks.
Again I'd like to thank everybody for their time and interest this quarter.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me directly and our Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2013 PPG Industries Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Philip and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Vince Morales Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Philip and good afternoon everyone.
Again this is Vince Morales Vice President of Investor Relations for PPG Industries.
Welcome to our third quarter 2013 financial teleconference.
Joining me on the call today from PPG is Chuck Bunch PPG's Chairman and CEO; and Frank Sklarsky Executive Vice President of Finance and CFO.
Our comments relate to the financial information we released today Thursday October 17 2013.
I will also remind everyone that approximately 1 hour ago we posted commentary and accompanying presentation slides at our Investor Center on our website at www.ppg.com.
The slides are also available on the webcast site for this call and they provide additional support to our opening commentary.
Following the opening comments we will move to a Q&amp;A session.
Both prepared commentary and discussion during the call may contain forward-looking statements reflecting the company's current view about future events and their potential effect on PPG's operating and financial performance.
These statements involve uncertainties and risks which may cause actual results to differ.
The company is under no obligation to provide subsequent updates to these forward-looking statements.
The presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The company has provided in the appendix of the presentation materials which again are available on our website reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
For any additional information please refer to our filings with the SEC.
And now let me introduce PPG's Chairman and CEO Chuck Bunch.
Thanks Vince.
As all of you can obviously tell I have been having issues with my voice these past few days.
I've been told I need to limit the amount of my talking to rest my voice so it can return to normal.
So I am going to leave the vast majority of the earnings call commentary today to Frank and Vince.
I will stay on the line and participate in the call.
I want to express my regrets to everyone for this unexpected issue.
Now I will turn the call over to Frank to go over our prepared remarks.
Thanks very much Chuck and good afternoon everyone.
We do appreciate your continued interest in PPG.
Today we're very pleased to report our third quarter financial results which included records for both sales and adjusted earnings per share.
Our sales in the quarter of $4 billion were up 17% versus last year.
Our adjusted earnings per share of $2.44 from continuing operations exceeded our prior year record by 31%.
Similar to last quarter we more than fully replaced the earnings per share reduction stemming from the separation of our former Commodity Chemicals business.
Feeding our performance in the quarter were improvements in overall market conditions and compared with the first half of 2013 our year-over-year sales volume trends improved in each major region during the quarter.
Our growth rates in North America improved and were more broad-based and included continuing benefits from aerospace automotive OEM coatings and Architectural Coatings as well as contributions from most other businesses.
In Asia higher demand occurred in most end-use markets we supply.
However marine new-build activity remains sharply negative on a year-over-year basis.
Lastly while volumes remained slightly negative in Europe the trend has significantly improved versus the earlier quarters this year as we experienced some initial signs of stability in the region.
Our volumes were down 2% in the Euro region during the third quarter compared to mid to high single-digit percentage declines experienced in the first half of 2013.
Another contributing factor to our performance is the ongoing aggressive management of our cost base.
Our cost actions included the continued implementation of the business restructuring actions that were approved and started in early 2012 as well as other ongoing discretionary cost reduction initiatives.
As a result of both the improving regional demand trends and our proactive cost management PPG team delivered record third quarter earnings in all major regions once again this quarter including Europe.
Another element contributing to our overall stronger financial performance was the result of our cash deployment including the sales and earnings benefit from the North American Architectural Coatings business we acquired from AkzoNobel on April 1.
Sales in the quarter from the acquired Akzo business approximately $400 million and we achieved an earnings return on sales in the upper mid-single-digit percentage range.
We continue to integrate the business and with good progress.
Within 6 months of closing on the acquisition we've already achieved on a run-rate basis over 50% of our full acquisition synergy target of $200 million.
While we still have a considerable amount of work to complete we're pleased with the team's progress to date.
In addition we spent $180 million in the quarter on share repurchases bringing our year-to-date total to about $325 million or slightly higher than 2.1 million shares repurchased.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter we expect to continue to benefit from the gradual growth in global demand trends.
The fourth quarter is seasonally slower than the third quarter in many of our businesses and especially Architectural Coatings.
We're expecting a larger magnitude of sequential seasonality this year as Architectural Coatings now represents a larger proportion of our revenues following the previously mentioned acquisition.
Regarding regional trends we expect the U.S.
economy will continue its modest growth supported by increasing demand in the many markets we supply.
Emerging region growth is expected to continue and remain inconsistent by end-use market and country.
In Europe where our volumes are still down about 20% versus prerecession levels demand appears to be stabilizing and we remain poised to benefit from the operating leverage based on any volume improvement given the actions we have taken there to substantially reduce our ongoing cost structure.
Also from an overall PPG perspective we remain focused on achieving additional cost efficiencies and have started implementation of the business restructuring program that our Board of Directors approved during the quarter and was included in our reported earnings today.
The elements of the program include securing remaining synergies in the acquired Architectural business along with targeted actions in certain businesses that continue to face challenging market conditions including protective and marine coatings Architectural Coatings EMEA and fiberglass.
As these actions are now just being implemented they will only provide nominal earnings benefit in the final quarter of 2013.
However given the rapid payback nature of these actions we expect to realize the majority of the savings benefit in 2014.
Finally our year-to-date cash from operations is $1.3 billion up about 25% versus last year which includes the benefit of our strong earnings results coupled with improved working capital performance.
We once again ended the quarter with a strong balance sheet and with cash and short-term investments of about $2.2 billion.
We remain focused yet disciplined on timely cash deployment geared towards earnings accretion and we continue to assess potential acquisitions and other growth-related uses of cash with attractive rates of return including organic capital spending.
We expect additional free cash flow in the fourth quarter which is traditionally our strongest cash generation quarter seasonally.
And in the continuing heritage of returning cash to shareholders we are increasing our targeted full year 2013 share repurchase level toward the higher end of our previously communicated range of $500 million to $750 million.
Once again we appreciate your interest in PPG.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Now operator would you please open the line for questions? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Yes on your prepared comments you noted that auto refinishing was a little bit weaker in North America.
Just curious as to why this is because previously you talked about weakness in Europe but was it just a tougher comp in North America or was there something else there? Yes I think that's it.
It's still doing very well.
It's just really the comparison as you mentioned.
This is still performing quite nicely with good profitability.
So no significant issues there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just sort of on Europe just given your commentary of Europe stabilizing or less bad if you will does that region get more attractive for you? As you start to think about future acquisitions are you sort of repositioned for the upturn in the various countries there? Certainly the acquisition of pipeline that we're looking at is going to include a variety of opportunities in all the regions in a variety of businesses.
So we certainly wouldn't shy away from that should a good opportunity present itself.
But yes I mean when we look at the outlook for 2014 fourth quarter and 2014 things are stabilizing and turning.
The decline rates in those businesses that are still showing decline are moderating substantially.
Auto business continues to do very nicely aerospace and some of the others.
So yes we would not shy away from Europe as a region.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Chuck I hope you feel better soon.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Chuck let me offer my well wishes for a speedy recovery of your voice.
Frank a large part of the transcript and some of the commentary did revolve around Europe and you're seeing pockets of growth there and you're suggesting signs of stabilization.
What gives you the confidence? And where are those pockets of growth? And looking at that Slide 9 where you see how the year-over-year volume trends are moving in the right direction I mean are -- is it fair to say that we're going to get close to the breakeven point in the next quarter or 2 and then start seeing positive comps there? I mean if you look at it from a macroeconomic standpoint all the economists are projecting a very modest GDP growth next year.
And we're kind of seeing the same kind of outlook when we talk to our businesses.
The recent trends have pointed very clearly to dramatically reduced decline rates.
We see that in Architectural we see that in the Industrial segments and the refinished segments PMC and so forth.
And auto continues to be very positive and strong and that has not subsided.
So the vast majority of our businesses are starting to migrate toward that breakeven lines and a few of them already have crossed that.
And so we are cautiously optimistic and see more favorable trends.
And certainly as we get into next year if the GDP prognostications are correct I mean we expect things to turn.
And again as we said we think there's some really nice operating leverage out there in the months and years ahead given all the work that's taken place on the cost base.
LLC Research Division</strong> You're already seeing in some avenues positive comps already but the expectation is that 2014 will bring a lot -- or more of it if the forecasts are correct.
And speaking of 2014 obviously you guys have a lot of self-help measures in place.
The comments about Akzo synergies running a little bit ahead of schedule at least on a run rate basis.
Then you talked about restructuring benefits.
How should we be thinking about the year-over-year delta benefit 2014 from those sorts of actions? Can you kind of quantify it and size it for us? Yes I mean if you -- if we start with the synergies from the Akzo acquisition as we said we are a little bit more than halfway to the $200 million on a run rate basis.
So if you look at the end of this year call that $100 million-plus out of the $200 million on a run rate basis.
And then by the end of 2014 expecting to be upwards -- to the $175 million to $180 million on a run rate basis by the end of the year.
And if that occurs evenly throughout the year which we fully expect you would book about half that increase actually in the year.
So that's that piece of it.
On the restructuring programs of course when we had the program in 2012 and the benefits from that we accrued some of that last year.
We expect an amount around $80 million in addition this year and then the trailing amount of a modest amount low double-digits in 2014 to accumulate to the total benefit that we had originally anticipated.
And then the new program we're really not going to see anything significant in terms of benefits in 2013 as we're just getting things underway.
But I would say the majority of that new program the one we announced the $98 million the majority of that is associated with achieving the synergies that we've already talked about for Akzo and then a more minority piece but still significant is associated with some of the other regions and businesses as we described and we expect to get most of that remainder occurring through 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Koort from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Neal Sangani on for Rob.
Can you maybe just going back to the synergies talk a little bit more on the revenue side about what you're seeing and what the outlook is and others maybe some store closings left to do? And what synergy opportunities are you seeing in brand rejuvenation or anything else on the revenue front? Neal this is Vince.
With regards to the Akzo business the acquired business we've gone through our process to rationalize the store network already.
So we've done that and that process had been completed.
As we noted we still had for the acquired business about $400 million of sales which is comparable to what Akzo had last year when the business was still owned by them.
With respect to any further revenue synergies we didn't have any revenue synergies in the project.
And again we're maintaining the top line with a smaller a more consistent store base let's say.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the aerospace side what contribution is the Deft acquisition having on the top line? What we said is that's about a $50 million a year business on the top line.
And it's fairly prorated throughout the year so each quarter's a little over $10 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Duffy Fischer from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> You guys have a pretty good history of macro analysis I guess.
So you've just gone through probably your '14 planning reviews with all the business leaders where do you think your guys are more or less negative than kind of the consensus economic stuff that you're reading? Yes.
We're still finalizing and in the process of our 2014 planning so not complete there just yet.
But I would say that overall our folks internally are relatively consistent with what you'd see out there from the economists.
We start with the GDP projections and also get projections on things that are industry-specific automotive OEM for instance and then look at how we participate in those markets and what new products or offerings that we can offer and put our planning process together from there.
But in general I would say to your direct question we don't see -- we don't have any major differences with the major economic assumptions out there with respect to either GDP or exchange rate or things like that.
And Duffy I'd say in one instance which is in Asia I think we've been a bit more bullish regarding Asia all year.
I think our numbers have been -- outside of the Marine business our numbers have been supportive of our stance.
And we have a very good array of businesses there that are really focused on middle-class consumption automobiles auto repair packaging refinish.
And those are what's being propped up if you will in China with all the -- their 5-year plan.
And so again I think we -- our bullish stance there has been warranted.
Right.
And I guess just to add to that we don't have as significant a presence in the Architectural which is not -- doesn't particularly bother us right now given maybe some of the modestly -- more modest growth rates in the residential and commercial real estate in the China market right now.
So I think things are in fairly good shape.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the written commentary a number of points around the seasonality kind of Q3 going to Q4 which would lead one to believe that numbers need to come down a little bit is there something different about the seasonality this year versus what we should expect going forward or what's the right template to think about what a Q3 going into a Q4 should look like with the new footprint? When we think about the trends Q3 to Q4 that has not really changed.
That same dynamic occurs.
All we're trying to do is make sure that there's a common understanding around the fact that because the North American Akzo business we acquired it on April 1 this is the first quarter this year's fourth quarter is the first fourth quarter where we will have that business in the mix.
And given its significance the fact that it will exhibit a similar seasonality decline rate from Q3 to Q4 that will just make up a larger proportion of the mix.
That's a $1.5 billion business on a run rate basis let's say.
So -- but we said about $400 million of revenue in the third quarter that declines to 25% per the slide we published this morning.
As the other Architectural businesses it's just making sure there's an understanding of that dynamic.
It's just a bigger piece of the pie but the dynamics really haven't changed at all.
Your next question comes from the line of Laurence Alexander from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Walker on for Laurence.
I guess on Europe so this year your volume is down mid-single-digits earnings are likely up mid-teens year-over-year.
I know a lot of that's restructuring.
I guess is it normalization improvement you're seeing there? If volume is flat next year how much can profits grow or do you need volume growth to get the incremental margin benefit? Yes.
I would say if you look at where our earnings profile is right now if there were to be no change in the volume run rate versus where we are in Q3 you would see an incrementally better profitability story certainly in the first half of 2014 because we've gotten a lot of cost rationalization as we have come through the year 2013.
But any modest improvement in volume because we do not have to add structural cost either in the area of capacity in most cases or back office you're looking at a 30% to 40% profit contribution to the bottom line from incremental volume improvements.
So you'll get some improvement in the first half of next year because of the cost improvements that were achieved during that time in 2013 and then any uptick will accrete in a slightly larger way because of the -- you're dropping the profit contribution margin without having to add incremental fixed costs in a big way.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on raw materials overall for the basket how much were -- I guess if you could split it out inorganic and organic were they up or down year-over-year in Q3? And what's your expectations for Q4? Yes.
Rob if you look at our raw material basket again it's fairly benign as it's been all year.
If you look on the 2 sides as you mentioned propylene costs on a year-over-year basis are up more than 25%.
TiO2 costs on the other side of the equation though have come down from last year's level.
So net again if you look at our total raw material basket it's been fairly benign all year with some ups and downs.
Your next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Chuck I hope you feel better.
Frank and Vince a couple of questions.
On automotive OEM your volume growth at 10% continues to outpace the global OEM industry.
So can you tell us which geographies or which areas are you gaining share in? Well when we talk about the volume uptick we gain volume by serving our customers.
We have very good relationships with our customers and we bring value-added products and services to them.
In some cases we will pick up business at different facilities with different customers based on our product offering.
And so if we add a facility you could argue that that is market share.
But we look at it on a manufacturer-by-manufacturer basis on a plant-by-plant basis and that's how we pick up business.
Now the other dynamic that's taking place that we benefit from is we do not participate with the Japanese OEMs in Japan.
As those manufacturers continue to localize their production in the markets that they may have traditionally exported to in Europe and North America Latin America wherever we have tended to do well in those facilities.
And that's another area where we have been able to solidify our market position.
So I guess that's the way I would answer it really that it's the increase over the market.
While we may not be able to sustain double-digit increases vis-a-vis market growth forever where we have been able to pick up business based on our product offerings our multigenerational product plan and some of the Japanese OEM facilities that's how we've been able to do that.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick question on sort of M&amp;A divestitures.
In Glass you've seen your segment at its highest in 3 years.
So with that kind of recovery is this now a candidate for divestiture? And then on M&amp;A front you had mentioned earlier that you guys were interested more in Asia.
And can you just talk about what kind of landscape do you see there and have the bid and ask spreads on these deals coming in? Yes P.J.
on Glass well the sales have moved up a little bit to our highest level in a couple of years.
From an earnings perspective it's still below the corporate average and we're just now starting to see -- I think we were a little more bullish on commercial construction coming into the year.
That didn't pan out for us in the first half.
We did start to see a little bit of a creep-up in volume and commercial construction in 3Q.
So some of the end markets that Glass is supplying we're just starting to see in the early stages of recovery.
So we'd like to see that go further profitability a couple of years ago was in the double-digit range in EBIT and return on sales.
So we still think those businesses have some improvement left.
I'll let Frank answer the M&amp;A question.
Yes.
I guess we wouldn't want anybody to believe that we're not looking at opportunities in all the major regions because there are opportunities for acquisition for bolt-ons either in the technology nature or help us solidify a market position or whatever in each of the regions.
Certainly emerging markets are attractive because they can add to our growth profile but so are some opportunities in other regions where we can achieve either revenue or cost synergies or like I said solidify market position.
In terms of the multiples multiples are -- we believe are healthy for a couple of reasons.
So one is the fact that money is still cheap and valuations adjust based on the fact that cost of capital at least in the short term is still very affordable.
And then the other piece is that as some of these markets come out of -- still come out of recession particularly late cycle types of companies that's reflected in the present value of their as you know future earnings and the multiples will reflect just that.
But that doesn't necessarily scare us away from good solid high-quality acquisition targets.
And like I said before the pipeline includes a variety of things in all the markets.
And all we'll say is that we will continue to focus on our core Coatings businesses as well as close adjacencies to build the portfolio.
Your next question comes from the line of Don Carson from Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> A question on capital allocation.
I'm just wondering you bumped your share repurchase to the top end of your $500 million to $750 million range.
Should we regard this range as a good number for annual purchases from cash flow? And then when you do one-off transactions whether it was chlor-alkali earlier this year or the TRANSITIONS sale next year that that would lead to significant onetime reductions in shares outstanding? I guess we wouldn't at this point want to nail down a specific number that we would necessarily do on an annual basis.
But we would say this and we have stated this before and we want to make sure that everybody understands that we're living up to what we've said in terms of our commitments on our capital allocation model.
Our priority is continue to invest in -- on organic growth keep driving the top line whether that's in technology or incremental CapEx to build for capacity actions which are highly accretive number one.
Number two continue to -- sustainable dividend increases along the lines that we've seen in the recent past and even before that.
Number three acquisition targets we just spoke about.
And then where there is excess cash continue to have share repurchases be an integral part an important integral part of our capital allocation philosophy.
And there's no reason to believe that that won't continue.
In terms of specific amounts and specific timings some of that will depend on the exact timing of what we -- identification and completion of certain acquisition targets.
But I think it's reasonable to expect that the share repurchases will continue to be an important part of that capital allocation model.
And obviously we disseminate that updates to that and news about that into the marketplace as soon as our board makes the decisions along those lines.
LLLP Research Division</strong> One follow-up on U.S.
Architectural.
You originally targeted I think a 10% operating margin for Akzo once you had the synergies behind you.
You're already in the upper single-digits.
So have you expanded your outlook for the potential margins from that acquisition and for your overall U.S.
Architectural business? Don this is Vince again.
I just -- if you look at our targets we were looking at about a 12% return on sales upon achievement of the full synergy range.
We're not changing that outlook.
We've got good traction to date.
We have a lot of work to do.
But I think that's still a good target for us again 12% 12.5% for that acquired business.
Your next question comes from the line of Nils Wallin from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> First off Frank you mentioned something about M&amp;A and coatings adjacencies.
So I was curious if you would clarify that a little bit what you mean by adjacencies.
Yes I mean when we talk about adjacencies we're not going to go too far afield.
But we could explore things in coatings and sealants and adhesives things that are closely aligned with core competencies in material science where you have a common customer base we can take advantage of our supply chain things we know well things where we can get revenue and cost synergies.
So that's what we're really referring to there.
And Nils we're in those businesses.
Right.
They're embedded in our current business structure.
Like in automotive and aerospace we already sell sealants into those markets.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
Since Akzo had the same number of sales year-over-year if I heard you correctly and yet a lower store base does that mean that you just got rid of stores that had really poor sales or was the growth rate in the -- on the lower base just much higher than your base business? Well what I'll remind you Nils is the market is growing.
And so while we'd like to think we would keep every dollar from every -- of sales from each store we close that's not realistic.
But we've had very high retention where we've had overlap in stores and we've got the benefit of market growth.
So again that's how I would characterize how we've been able to maintain that top line.
And in some of the stores we're in very close proximity to each other geographically.
And so you try to rationalize that in a sensible way.
And also there were some that were performing less so and obviously that was part of the mix too.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one last if I may.
On the Industrial Coatings businesses great great volume growth year-over-year.
But pricing growth has been pretty moderate which is surprising given how well auto OEM is doing.
Is there something I'm missing there? Is there a mix effect? Just curious as why price growth hasn't been as strong as volume growth.
We typically price Nils in reflection of raw materials.
We do get certainly new products we're able to price a little higher.
But our focus on pricing is to cover raw material inflation and transportation inflation.
And we -- as I said earlier in the call raw material inflation's fairly benign.
We do have transportation inflation this year which is what we're trying to do with our pricing this year.
And your next question comes from David Begleiter from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Frank in Industrial you're doing quite well on OEM autos you're doing okay in packaging.
Can you add a little more color on the industrial portion of that business I guess as the mix trends in Europe versus the rest of the world? Yes.
I think that when you look overall first globally in Industrial business the areas that are doing well are heavy-duty equipment some of the automotive parts and accessories kinds of things where we coat certain components there.
The part that is probably a little bit softer out there is the consumer electronics and we've said that before no secret there.
But other than that we continue to see some pretty good volumes and some pretty good recovery.
And as the commercial construction -- when the commercial construction recovers we expect to see continued strength in that heavy-duty equipment sector.
Research Division</strong> That's a good segue into China.
I know you made some comments about China in Q4.
What's your expectations for China demand heading out of Q4 into 2014? I mean I think we're pretty pleased with the mix of business we have in China.
As Vince said before automotive OEM refinish some of the Industrial categories are still doing well.
The experts are saying around 7% growth in China next year which might be a little bit less than it has been traditionally.
But 2 things there: one the law of large numbers is starting to take over; and number two some of the downdraft is because of residential and commercial construction where we probably have less of an exposure.
So we're still pretty optimistic about China for the businesses where we compete.
Clearly we've said before Asia on marine new-build not expected to come back anytime in the near future.
But the other businesses again we're still optimistic about those for the rest of the year and for 2014.
Research Division</strong> And just last some of the TiO2 guys have put forth some price increases with a Jan 1 implementation.
What's your view on potential for TiO2 price increases in 2014? Dave we still -- we're not having any problems getting any supply.
We're exiting really the peak of the paint season now and our view is that market has sufficient supply.
We may come to a situation where we go back to what I would call a more seasonal pattern of inflation in some of our raw materials where in parts of the season they are in more demand; in other parts they are not.
But our view is that market remains sufficiently supplied.
Your next question comes from the line of Ivan Marcuse from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Real quick.
In Europe you mentioned in your commentary that it's projected that European automotive is expected to grow which is consistent with some other data in the fourth quarter.
So how meaningful of a business would that be for you in improvement? And then if you also look at Europe you're saying you're going to miss 2 days.
How much of a drag in terms of volumes would those 2 days be on that region? Ivan the 2 days less -- 2 less shipping days in the fourth quarter are really an only architectural-driven event.
The auto companies and most industrial companies run 24/7.
So they're not affected by that.
So it's more retail-oriented.
So I would say that that's a small -- that's a typically light season anyway but it's 1% or 2% in terms of just pure math.
With respect to automotive OEM again if you look at our mix of business geographically our auto business is about 1/3 U.S.
about 1/3 Europe and about 1/3 Asia.
So we've got a good mix.
And certainly one of those portions of those businesses have been a downdraft which is Europe.
And from an industry perspective we perform well.
We're glad to see that start to turn the corner.
And we would hope that as Frank mentioned earlier that it continues and that'll give us a lift because of the cost we've taken out of the region.
Right and the operating leverage because the capacity is in fairly good shape at the European business.
So any incremental volume will accrete at something closer to the profit contribution margin versus the just the bottom line PTPI margin.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then -- and would that contribution margin be in the same sort of degree that you -- on an increase of volume that you described previously in that 30% to 40% range? I think it's a good rule of thumb to use overall.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in North America you may have mentioned this was there a significant difference between sales in your stores versus your mass retail? Yes.
I mean I think the mass retail is doing well.
The company-owned stores are doing well and I think we stated that the one spot that is doing okay but not as well as the other 2 would be the PPG legacy and the Akzo dealer store channel.
But other than that things are going fine continue to benefit from the residential recovery.
Research Division</strong> So would the stores and the mass retail be up about the same in terms of volume? Stores were up a little higher Ivan and the mass retailers were up but not as much as stores.
The next question comes from the line of John McNulty from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
On the Akzo stores in the second quarter I believe the sales rate was about 475 and it dropped to 400 in the third quarter.
I know there's a little bit of seasonality but not quite that much.
Is it all just the store closures or is there something else that may be going on at least temporarily in that business? No John.
If you look -- I'll remind you in the first quarter on our first quarter call we put out projected seasonality for that business.
And we're tracking almost to $0.01 with what our projections were and what they did last year.
So that seasonality you saw it's about a 15% haircut it's consistent with history for that business and it's also consistent with our U.S.
legacy business about a 15% downdraft from Q2 to Q3.
And I'll remind you Q3 to Q4 again for seasonal reasons drops about 25%.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then one last question on the stores.
Can you give us your outlook potentially for pricing in 2014 if there's room to push higher? Because I think you probably would have to launch it relatively soon if you're going to do it in time for the contract season next year.
I mean that -- a lot of that would depend on the change in raw materials.
But as Vince said that we expect that to be relatively modest particularly in those materials that impact that segment.
So as long as the raw material environment remains relatively benign we would expect a relatively stable pricing environment.
Yes with the -- again the other thing we're watching John is freight.
So if that moves up that's a big -- it's a distribution business.
Right.
That does have a hefty freight component to it.
So if freight costs move up which they have been that would be another -- it would be a catalyst for some further pricing.
And OEM was obviously one of the drivers of that also on a delayed basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> On a per pound basis did you pay less for TiO2 in the third quarter than you did in the second? Yes Jeff we typically don't talk about our particular raw materials in that level of granularity.
What I can say on a more broad sense is we're not seeing any -- outside of some propylene transitory inflation everything else is fairly benign.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You indicated that you lifted your share repurchase target to the upper end of $500 million to $750 million range.
But given that you have $2 billion in cash on the balance sheet and you have more coming in in the fourth quarter it seems that you've made a decision to retain a lot of cash that is -- I think in the old days you had a target of maybe having $1 billion cash balance.
So what's changed in your thinking? Is it that you bought back so many shares last year you don't want to buy back too many over a shorter period of time? Or why does it seem that you want to hold more cash now? Yes and I would say that that is not necessarily the case at all.
Going -- as we said we've done about $325 million so far this year.
And if we go to that upper end of $750 million by the end of the fourth quarter that is buying back over $400 million worth of stock in one quarter which is a pretty healthy clip.
And so I guess what we would reiterate is that as we go forward as we continue to assess the pipeline of acquisition targets we also will be looking at making sure that the share repurchases continue to be an integral part of that capital allocation model.
And of course all decisions around that obviously are reviewed with our Board of Directors and they make the final call.
But I think we would all here internally our Board of Management agree that that model that we've used will continue.
And no we do not necessarily believe we need to hold a substantial amount of excess cash on the balance sheet.
Let's keep in mind too that the TRANSITIONS deal is not yet complete.
We expect that by mid next year.
But you're correct in saying that we have a very healthy cash balance.
We will continue to generate cash and we will make sure we continue to deploy it in a manner that's accretive and value-creating for the shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly you increased your environmental reserves $56 million.
Have we come to the end of that or are we going to see another I don't know $100 million or $150 million increase in reserves over the next couple of years? Some of these projects and sites go for a long period of time.
And parts of those projects are more predictable than others.
We took this reserve now because we had done more work on one of the key sites in the Jersey Chrome site has been disclosed and obviously have more granularity in terms of information and rigor of analysis as we go through time.
So we felt this was the appropriate time to take that reserve it made all the sense in the world.
As we go through time we'll continue to assess the remaining exposures we have at that site and other ones.
And the other thing I would say is that when you look at the amount of the reserves not just for this site but for all the other sites it is a number of years over which we typically discharge these liabilities.
So the amount of cash expenditure in any given year is not really material to our results or our ability to deploy cash.
So it should not be a significant concern.
And Jeff if you look we have in our filings some mentioning around what environmental projects we're working on.
I think we've been very descriptive in all of our filings about the current and future situations.
The cash comment I just want to elaborate on a little bit from Frank.
We spent about $60 million a year in 2010 and '11 on environmental cash deployment.
We moved that up about $30 million or $40 million to $100 million which is the rate we're going to run at for the next couple of years.
So Frank's comments that we've not -- we're not spending a lot of cash this will be discharged over a long period of time I think are important to understand from a shareholder perspective.
And your next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on store count Vince.
I think you'd mentioned you've completed the rationalization of the Akzo store network.
A couple of questions.
How many stores did you close there? Also what was the change in count on the legacy PPG side? And then if you look ahead for let's say 2014 how many stores would you plan to add? And what does that future trajectory look like? Yes.
Kevin if you look we started with roughly 1 000 stores.
We -- as Frank mentioned some of those were in very close proximity to each other in some cases right across from each other.
And we've rationalized let's say 5% to 7% of our store network.
And so that's 80 to 90 stores net and on a go-forward basis we'll be targeted in store additions.
I don't want to give a rule of thumb number but it's not going -- it's going to be in a given year anywhere from 20 to maybe 30 or 40.
It depends on the year and what locations we're looking at geographically.
So again I think we'll be measured -- we've got as you know 3 different distribution outlets.
We got the stores business.
We also have the national accounts or DIY business to have another customer touch point in the dealer network.
So we want to grow in all those networks.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to shift gears a clarification if I may on Optical.
I think you've said in the past you would expect the divestiture to close in the first half of 2014.
I guess we've got maybe 2.5 months under the belt now.
Any updated thoughts on when you would expect that deal to close? And then also in Optical I think you're rolling out Gen VII in the U.S.
So can you comment as to the 4Q versus 3Q pattern? Is there a loading of the channel to come there? Yes.
And I'll first -- the first question around the timing -- our expectations haven't changed around the timing of the deal it's still going through the typical normal regulatory approval process in the various regions and still expect an outlook of first half by mid-year next year the closure of that deal.
In terms of the Q3 Q4 dynamics I'm -- recall last year in 2012 Q3 there was some destocking around the circuit which made the Q3 comparison -- aided the Q3 comparison in terms of a favorable look versus the prior year.
In Q4 probably a more typical comparable performance Q4 over Q4.
We do have the loading that has been taking place already in anticipation of the January launch in the U.S.
of TRANSITIONS VII that continues.
But Q4 last year was very solid.
So probably a more comparable comparison vis-à-vis the very favorable performance this Q3 because of the destocking last year Q3.
And your next question comes from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn from Longbow Research.
Chuck I hope you'll feel better with your voice.
A couple of things that I want to touch base on that haven't been discussed already.
Number one when you talk about the Industrial segment you've done a good job outlining what's going on in automotive and provided some ideas on general Industrial.
Can you talk about packaging coatings of the business in the third quarter and your outlook for the fourth? Crown came out with results that were not that spectacular in terms of volume growth on the can business particularly in the European food pack and U.S.
beverage.
So can you talk about what you're seeing in the end markets how your BPA share gains are progressing and just give us any commentary you can on the Packaging business? Yes Dmitry.
We're seeing -- let me give you a little bit of background.
As you know we've got a lot of good activity going on in Asia in terms of just overall market growth.
We've got a good position there.
And our emerging region growth has really helped us grow on a global basis.
We're seeing like our other European businesses our business in -- our packaging business in Europe is down modestly.
Again similar to some other businesses in Europe.
It hasn't been moving around much.
The U.S.
business or North American business is solid.
It's not a -- it's a GDP-type growth business.
With respect to BPA we're seeing a lot of activity in Europe in terms of going through the testing process.
There is some dates out there as you -- as I know you and I have talked about with respect to what France's legislation is so there's a lot of -- the can fillers as well as the can makers are doing a lot of activity.
And we're pleased with the progress we've made but it's still a very small portion of the total packaging business at this point.
We do expect it to grow certainly next year and in years coming.
But right now it's still fairly modest in terms of its total size.
Got it.
And if I could ask just on sort of the trends that you saw towards the end of September and perhaps early in October.
Some of the industrial companies pointed out that there was a little bit of a softness particularly in the U.S.
at the very end of September.
Whether or not it had to do with what's going on with the government or not is a different story.
But have you seen in any of your businesses any kind of sort of late quarter pullback from customers in terms of their order patterns or maybe you're seeing it in the first couple of weeks of October or has this just not been an issue for you at all? Just to the contrary Dmitry if you look at our progression as we went through the quarter September was our best year-over-year month of all 3 months.
So it's just the opposite of what you're describing.
Okay all right.
So I was just curious because these were comments that were made by some industrial companies but not by others.
So I was curious where you came out on that.
And your next question comes from the line of Charles Dan from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of clarifying questions.
One can you quantify how much of a drag on the Architectural business was the lost contract at Lowe's or what that sort of mid-single-digit growth rate would have been without that? I guess we can start there.
Yes.
Charlie as we said in the past -- I think I'll just give everybody a backgrounder.
About 2 years ago we picked up a position at Lowe's with our Olympic ONE brand.
That for us was about $60 million a year.
And in addition this past year we lost 2 price points at Lowe's.
They were the $12 and $18 lower price points.
That was a commensurate $60 million a year event.
So about $15 million a quarter.
And again we did have positive comps in our DIY channel so that market growth and the performance of our DIY channel overcame that.
And so we would have been up obviously mid to high single digits without that absence of business.
Research Division</strong> And just on the Marine business can you give some sense for when -- we've seen sort of an extreme decline there when those comps really get easier and could we potentially be lapping those really severe declines by the first quarter of next year? Yes.
I think to your point we're within a quarter or 2 where the comps will start to look less unfavorable start to sort of even out on a year-over-year basis.
Keep in mind that there was quite a bubble a few years ago.
We don't expect -- so we're sort of bouncing along at lower levels here absolutely good but I wouldn't expect any significant uptick in the new-build marine business certainly during 2014 perhaps sometime mid-late 2015.
Keep in mind these are long cycle projects and we will typically participate in terms of ringing in the cash register in the latter part of the project when the coatings go on on the ships.
So the first stage is the RFPs go out we bid.
That can be up to a 12- 18-month process then the construction commences.
And we put our part of the project in place and then we generate the revenue and the cash probably still a couple of years off before you see that happen in a meaningful way.
But we are starting to see some repair in terms of deferred maintenance which is the first glimmer of hope that you start to -- you see some of the shippers release the purse strings a little bit on some of the deferred maintenance and on a follow-on to that obviously they'll be doing RFPs on the new-builds.
So compares will be a little bit easier but a little bit of time before we see a significant uptick.
Research Division</strong> If I could just one quick question.
You guys gave a lot of numbers on sort of the run rate improvements you're seeing in the Akzo synergies.
Just so that everybody's clear is it possible for you to give a range of sort of what your view is on the operating income line there for that business next year? Charlie where we are now is again upper mid-single-digits.
We would expect that to go up next year with again the increase in synergies capture.
So I'm not -- we're not going to put an exact number on it but again it'll be part of the way between where we are today and the 12.5% target.
Your next question comes from the line of John Roberts from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Get well Chuck.
Thank you.
Research Division</strong> For the European recovery that you're seeing can you talk about how much of that might be export automotive and aerospace? And what I'm getting at is things that might not be local European demand recovering but global recovery just being sourced out of Europe? Yet John if you look the -- I wouldn't call it a recovery we're seeing less negativity and some improvement in a few markets but it is broad.
I mean every one of our businesses in the quarter did better than the quarter or 2 quarters prior and the quarter prior.
So it's more broad than just exports.
I do agree with you there's some additional exports but this is more of a broad issue.
Frank you want to...
Yes.
It's like if you look at the local GDPs in Western Europe for instance going from modestly negative to forecast to being modestly positive next year.
And also we're seeing some leading indicators showing that there is less of a decline in the leading indicators.
So again it's kind of mirroring the lower decline rates in the actual revenues.
We do expect more of the growth to come from domestic consumption than export as -- now we'll certainly see to the extent they're exporting to Asia and we see growth in Asia that will continue.
But the increase in the growth rate in Europe we do expect a significant portion of that going forward to have to come from the domestic consumption.
If that's a 2 percentage points from negative 1% to positive 1% GDP that's where that's going to come from.
Research Division</strong> And then secondly for TRANSITIONS will we see that as again discontinued beginning first quarter 2014 and it'll still be consolidated in the fourth quarter 2013 results? Yes.
We would expect to see it consolidated in the fourth quarter.
It would move to continuing operations once regulatory approvals are received.
That would be the triggering event to move it over to disc ops.
And your next question comes from the line of Rosemarie Morbelli from Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> If I -- if we look at TiO2 does it make a difference to you for your use of the TiO2 whether it is a sulfate-based or chloride-based process? Rosemarie we use both.
It depends on a variety of factors including location and geography.
It depends on end markets.
It depends on whether it's slurry or not.
So we use a variety of different -- we use both grades in a variety of different ways.
And what I would tell you with respect to TiO2 is we are and we have been continuing to progress along our efficiency programs.
And we announced a target a couple of years ago and we continue to work on that.
And we also continue to use more sulfate around the world than we've had in the past.
So those are 2 trends that are continuing.
But again we do use both grades.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So am I correct in thinking that sulfate there is plenty of capacity and therefore you are less likely to get price increases than the -- from the chloride process? I would -- there's probably a little more to the algorithm than that.
But what I would tell you is that there is certainly excess capacity in our view in sulfate especially in Asia.
And again where we can use sulfate around the world we're adding to our capabilities there.
I would say in terms of total global dynamics on TiO2 pricing it's not a simple as what you described.
Inc.</strong> Okay that would have been too easy.
If I could ask one quick question regarding consumer electronics.
You said that demand was weak.
This is what everyone else says.
Have you seen any sign of a change in trends for consumer electronics? Not significantly in the recent couple of quarters no.
We really haven't -- not a huge portion of our business but we haven't seen any major changes in trends.
And ladies and gentlemen this will conclude the question-and-answer portion of today's conference.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Vince Morales for closing remarks.
Thank you Philip.
And again I just want to thank everybody for their time today.
And if there's any further questions regarding the quarter please contact me and Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2013 PPG Industries Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Philip and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Vince Morales Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Philip.
Good afternoon everyone.
Again Vince Morales Vice President of Investor Relations.
Welcome to PPG's fourth quarter 2013 financial teleconference.
Joining me from PPG on the call today is our Chairman and CEO Chuck Bunch; and our Executive Vice President and CFO Frank Sklarsky.
Our comments today relate to the financial information we released Thursday January 26 -- or January 16 excuse me 2014.
I will remind everybody that approximately 1 hour ago we posted detailed commentary and accompanying presentation slides on our Investor Center at our website at www.ppg.com.
The slides are also available on the webcast site for this call and provide additional support to the opening comments Chuck will make momentarily.
Following Chuck's perspective on the company's results for the quarter and the year we will move to a Q&amp;A session.
Both the prepared commentary and discussion during the call may contain forward-looking statements reflecting the company's current views about future events and their potential effect on PPG's operating and financial performance.
These statements involve uncertainties and risks which may cause actual results to differ.
The company is under no obligation to provide subsequent updates to these forward-looking statements.
The presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The company has provided in the appendix materials accompanying the presentation and again available on our website reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
For any additional information please refer to our filings with the SEC.
Now let me introduce PPG's Chairman and CEO Chuck Bunch.
Thank you Vince and welcome everyone.
We appreciate your continued interest in PPG Industries.
Today I'm pleased to report record 2013 fourth quarter and full year financial results.
This record financial performance caps off one of the most successful years in the company's history both financially and strategically.
Quickly reviewing our strategic initiatives we announced or completed several considerable actions during 2013.
In January we completed the separation of our Commodity Chemicals business.
We closed the North American architectural coatings acquisition in April and announced an agreement to sell PPG's ownership interest in the Transitions Optical joint venture in July.
These actions were focused on creating additional value for PPG's shareholders as we shift to a more consistent and higher growth business portfolio.
Financially we once again delivered record results.
Our sales for the fourth quarter increased to $3.7 billion up 14%.
Fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations were a record $1.81 exceeding the prior year record by 45%.
This marks 14 consecutive quarters of record adjusted earnings illustrating the benefits of the company's strong coatings portfolio broad global footprint prudent cash deployment and measurable results from the strategic initiatives.
Supplementing acquisition-related sales gains our year-over-year volumes grew 2% in the fourth quarter.
Volume trends in North America and emerging regions were similar with previous quarters.
As we indicated last quarter Europe continues to stabilize and our fourth quarter year-over-year coatings volumes in Europe were flat following nonconsecutive quarters of decline.
Aggressive cost management including additional restructuring-related cost improvements remained a contributor to our earnings growth.
Our 2012 restructuring program is substantially complete and I am pleased to report we have achieved the targeted annual cost savings run rate of about $140 million.
Our acquisition integration continued for the acquired North American architectural coatings business and our synergy achievement in 2013 remained slightly ahead of our targets.
We still have a considerable amount of integration work remaining and initial actions are underway from the restructuring program we approved in the third quarter of 2013 primarily focused on capturing the remaining acquisition synergies.
Finally on fourth quarter results aggregate segment earnings grew 19% in the quarter with improvement achieved in each reportable segment.
Also each major region delivered earnings growth of at least 14% including Europe where our earnings improvement accelerated throughout the year.
Quickly reviewing full year results.
Sales from continuing operations were $15.1 billion up 12% versus the prior year.
Our volume trend improved throughout the year aided by the improving European trends during the year which I mentioned earlier.
Volume performance remained generally consistent each quarter in North America and Asia.
Adjusted 2013 earnings per share from continuing operations were an all-time record of $8.28.
I am pleased to note that we fully replaced the earnings from the separated Commodity Chemical business and did so within 12 months.
Our continued strong operating performance and earnings growth from our cash deployment were the main contributors to our year-over-year earnings growth.
From a cash perspective our operating working capital efficiency improved by 160 basis points and contributed to our continued legacy of strong cash generation.
We achieved record cash flow from operations from continuing operations of $1.8 billion for the year up 15% versus the prior year.
Our cash uses remained balanced with a total of $1.5 billion deployed with a focus on growing the company through acquisitions and capital spending.
Additionally $1.35 billion was returned to shareholders including dividends totaling $350 million and stock repurchases of $1 billion.
We maintained our strong financial flexibility ending the year with a solid balance sheet including cash and short-term investments of $1.75 billion.
Looking ahead to 2014 we expect modest global growth to continue.
We anticipate growth to remain the broadest in the U.S.
economy spanning across several coatings end-use markets as favorable market conditions continue in automotive OEM architectural coatings and aerospace.
Emerging regions growth is expected to remain mixed but I expect PPG to post solid growth based on the end markets we supply.
In Europe where we have about 1/3 of our sales economies appear to be improving but remain fragile.
We anticipate modest growth in that region in 2014.
Equally important is that we expect to realize solid earnings leverage due to the actions we have taken the past 2 years to significantly reduce our cost structure in that region.
As I mentioned earlier we are implementing our restructuring program primarily focused on capturing additional North American architectural coatings acquisition synergies and we expect 2014 incremental cost savings of between $75 million and $90 million.
We expect the pending sale of our ownership interest in the Transitions Optical joint venture to close by midyear with PPG receiving about $1.5 billion in after-tax proceeds.
That along with our history of generating strong free cash flow will supplement our existing balance sheet flexibility.
Finally over the next 18 to 24 months we anticipate deploying between $3 billion and $4 billion of cash in a disciplined manner on incremental earnings growth initiatives and return of cash to our shareholders.
In summary 2013 was a very successful year for the company overall and also for our shareholders.
As we head into 2014 we remain focused on creating additional value for our shareholders.
Once again we appreciate your interest in PPG.
And this concludes our prepared remarks.
Now operator would you please open the line for questions? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Robert Koort from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Angel Castillo on for Bob.
I was just hoping to understand a little bit better.
You mentioned the $3 billion to $4 billion in capital deployment.
If I'm doing the math correctly it seems that you really aren't assuming much or any incremental leverage.
I was wondering if you could talk about that and just how should we think about that and just your acquisitions versus repurchase strategy especially since you exceeded your repurchase guidance in 2013.
Yes in terms of the -- this is Frank.
In terms of the leverage yes we're looking at the $3 billion to $4 billion being able to be deployed when considering the existing cash balance at the end of this year $1.75 billion plus the $1.5 billion Chuck referred to as the after-tax proceeds from TRANSITIONS along with the ongoing cash flow from operations that we'll continue to generate in both 2014 and 2015.
That will be definitely adequate and ample in order to be able to deploy that $3 billion to $4 billion.
The question around leverage we do not need to take on additional leverage in order to deploy that $3 billion to $4 billion although there's certainly capability on the balance sheet to do so if we were to desire to do that.
But it's not required for the $3 billion to $4 billion to be deployed.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just a follow-up question.
With all the moving pieces in performance for this quarter can you help us understand some of the larger impacts namely just the seasonality that you saw from the Akzo business? Well as we've been highlighting in our second and third quarter reports the architectural coatings business historically is a seasonal business with the strongest quarters in the second and third quarters of the year.
Fourth quarter traditionally weaker.
That seasonality is present in the Akzo businesses that we acquired.
In fact maybe slightly stronger because of the strong Canadian business that's part of that acquisition.
So there was -- we felt that -- we felt good with the performance of the Akzo business.
However as we tried to note in the earlier comments it is a seasonally weaker quarter with less earnings generation than what we experienced in the second and third quarters.
Your next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> On the North American architectural price increases how should we think about the price realization impact Frank on a quarterly basis? And also you mentioned that the increase was implemented through your stores.
What about the other channels? Right now the price increase that we announced and we're implementing you'll see that -- the effects of that in the store channel in -- beginning in the first quarter of the year.
The other channels are -- these are still discussions that we're having with our customers and we have no announced price increases at this point outside of the one that we've noted in the stores channel.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what about in Europe when you're -- in the network there? The pricing is relatively flat going into 2014.
We have the -- some initiatives around certain products or markets.
But by and large we're going into 2014 in Europe with stable price.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one more on Europe.
Chuck you were a bit more positive on the region during the third quarter as well.
Did anything change during the fourth quarter either positive or negative that sticks out either by region or product line? Actually we feel good about what's going on in Europe.
If you look at one of our largest markets automotive on the sales side things were picking up.
And it looks like now if you look at all the forecasts for 2014 in automotive production they are now forecasting an increase in production for automotive a modest one 2% to 4%.
But that is we think an indication of a positive trend.
In architectural even though the fourth quarter European volumes were still down this was our best performance during 2013.
And as we noted in the fourth quarter overall for all our businesses volumes were flat and that was our best performance.
So I think we had discussed what we thought was a stable to improving trend in Europe.
We see that.
And right now we feel good about these modest improvements that we're seeing.
And although we note that much of the earnings improvement for PPG during 2013 where we did have record pretax pre-interest earnings was a result of our productivity and cost initiatives we do feel now that the volume is stabilizing and looking now to be positive albeit modest.
So actually we still feel pretty good about our commentary around what's going on in Europe.
Your next question comes from the line of Duffy Fischer from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions.
One just the $3 billion to $4 billion in cash back to shareholders is that inclusive of dividends? No.
In fact the $3 billion to $4 billion is a combination of cash that could be both returned to shareholders as well as incremental growth inorganic growth initiatives so could potentially be M&amp;A activity to the extent we identify things over the next 18 to 24 months.
But it excludes the cash that is already slated to go toward dividends.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then on the Slide 6 where you're walking through the volume trends I mean it's kind of interesting.
If you just eyeball down everything was getting double derivative better throughout the year except the U.S.
and Canada looked like it turned or negative in the fourth quarter again kind of on a double derivative in that the gain was smaller than the quarter before.
Is that an inflection point? Is that -- should we read into that? Or was that an anomaly relative to everything else do you think? No Duffy.
If you look last year that's on a -- we had very good growth in Q4 of '12.
So that's just on a more difficult comparable period than the third quarter as an example was.
So we started to see the inflection actually in '12 of an uptick of activity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just the last one.
The sales growth faster than the market in auto OE is a little bit of a lagging indicator in that it's the wins that you got in the preceding year.
When you look back at '13 how was your win rate on new business for auto OE globally? We felt good about our performance on let's say new business in auto OEM.
And as you know there's a lot of new construction of manufacturing facilities around the world both here in North America and in China 2 of the biggest markets.
But we're also seeing it in not only in Mexico part of the North American growth but also in South America.
So we feel very good about the new technologies that we've introduced over the last couple of years.
The compact process for the total coating system in automotive OEM plus our new electrocoat generation is doing very well.
So we're confident that the sales growth that we've seen and getting our share of new business from these new facilities or additional awards are in place.
Your next question comes from the line of David Begleiter from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Chuck just on Performance Coatings you know that earnings were hurt by some growth-related spending in aerospace and refinish.
How much was that? And is that continuing into 2014? Hey Dave this is Vince.
The additional spending on higher sales level combined is single mid -- single-digit millions of dollars.
So fairly de minimis.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
And Chuck just how is the M&amp;A pipeline today? Well it's very active.
From a discussion standpoint we hope to realize some acquisitions here throughout 2014 having what we feel are good productive discussions.
But obviously we're maintaining our traditional discipline around valuations.
But we're confident that we'll be able to announce here in the coming quarters new acquisitions for PPG.
Research Division</strong> And just lastly on the 10% auto OEM growth Chuck I think there was some benefit from a competitor who was recently acquired.
Do you expect that -- those benefits to taper off in 2014 as that competitor gets its feet under it? I think that the trends that we've seen the competitors that we have out there are all -- seem to be performing in the marketplace.
And so we feel that the momentum that we have that we think is continuing is again based on service and technology and it's always been a competitive environment out there.
But we feel confident that we're going to be able to continue to grow the business nicely here in 2014.
And your next question comes from the line of Laurence Alexander from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Walker on for Laurence.
I guess can you be a little bit more specific about the growth projects you have planned for '14? Is there specific business Rob you want to talk about or just in general? Research Division</strong> The increase.
I mean is it mostly in North America? Any particular region or line? Well we do have some incremental CapEx in the year.
We're not talking about hundreds of millions of dollars tens of millions let's call it and that's to expansion capacity in automotive OEM and industrial in each one of the regions.
And to that extent that spending's going to be very accretive from a value-creation standpoint.
So from an organic standpoint that's what we have going on from an inorganic as Chuck referred to on the M&amp;A side of things.
But we have a number of businesses outside of just the industrial or automotive space and I think Frank highlighted some of the projects that we have in Russia Brazil Mexico China where we feel that 2014 is going to be a very good year for the automotive OEM and the industrial businesses.
But on the Performance Coatings side aerospace looks to have another solid year in front of it a lot of momentum on the commercial aviation sector.
We're well positioned with our products including the growth from the new acquisition at Deft.
The refinish business continues to grow especially in emerging regions.
And we look for continued improvement that we saw at the end of the year in Europe.
And on the construction markets overall for both our architectural coatings and our flat glass businesses we think they're going to benefit from this continued growth here in North America.
And as we've said the European business on architectural should be stronger along with the rest of the region.
So we're quite excited about the prospects that we're seeing and we think we have a lot of initiatives in place to drive profitable growth for the company.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just on Performance Coatings what -- how much were volumes either up or down excluding marine? And I guess your expectations kind of for the next quarter? Can those be -- start to turn positive? Rob Vince again.
If you look at the segment the volume decline of 3% that we included in our prepared materials was exactly the decline related to marine.
So if you took the marine negative out it would have been flat.
Your next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar from Citibank.
Research Division</strong> It's Dan Jester sitting in for P.J.
So on your favorable view of the North American architectural market is that still predominantly residential recovery? Or are you starting to see some improvement in the commercial market? We started to see -- 2013 was primarily about the recovery in the residential markets and we see that continuing.
We saw some signs later in the year and in the fourth quarter that the commercial market may be beginning its long-awaited recovery.
The business that we have that's most directly exposed to commercial construction activity is the flat glass business and they had a better fourth quarter when you look at the architects' indexes and the like.
And so we're more comfortable that the commercial market starting with maintenance markets but also expanding out there we're going to see some growth here in commercial construction in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on titanium dioxide I think that you said previously that your goal in 2013 was to reduce your usage by 2% or 3%.
I guess did you hit those goals? And do you have any goals for 2014? We did hit our productivity targets for TiO2 within that range the lower end of that range but we did achieve them.
And we are continuing the programs that we've discussed.
And again I would expect further productivity improvements for us in 2014.
But probably again probably at that lower end of the range as we've I think capitalized on the best or quickest opportunities that we had.
So I think there's still more to go.
But we've certainly hit our targets over these last 2 years.
We're still working but I don't think that we're going to see the kinds of reductions that we saw in 2012 and '13.
Your next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Frank Mitsch sitting in for Frank Mitsch.
Chuck I wanted to get a clarification on the volumes in Europe.
You had mentioned that you expect them to be positive in 2014.
Is that an overall comment or are you speaking specifically to architectural EMEA? Well that's an overall comment for all of our businesses.
So that if you look at the fourth quarter we were flat on volumes.
But I would expect that as we go through the year in architectural that we're going to see a return to positive trends as we go through the year here in architectural.
LLC Research Division</strong> A return to positive trends.
Okay great.
And obviously that business was a big beneficiary of the cost-cut programs.
Your margins went up over 200 bps.
What -- is there any incremental savings left in 2014 that will supplement the sort of improvements you're going to have from volumes moving in the right direction? Yes.
We're going to see a small what I would call a small increment in the cost savings for architectural in Europe.
And you're going to -- if you look at it an anniversary of those benefits so we're going to still see in the first half of the year the completion of the rest of the cost savings and productivity initiatives.
So we still have what I would call modest improvements to look forward to here in the first half.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right great.
And then lastly we talked a little bit about price increases in the company-owned stores.
What's your overall take for the raw material environment in 2014 on the coatings side relative to 2013? We are still looking forward to relatively stable raw material prices inflation projections low-single digits.
Now we've seen some of the commodities moving around a little bit.
We have a little bit of energy cost inflation.
If you look at what's happening to natural gas and some of the transportation costs propylene has moved up a little bit.
It usually does at this time of year.
Nothing that's an overall concern.
But our forecast right now overall for the inflation basket including raw materials low-single digits.
And your next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess I still have a couple of questions on Performance Coatings.
I think your operating profits were up $2 million year-over-year and your sales were up $290 million.
And I realize that it's seasonally weak.
But why weren't operating profits higher? Well in the fourth quarter if you look at what we've indicated we had weaker activity in marine which had been a very profitable segment or market for our protective and marine segment.
And also in architectural coatings there is an amount.
You have seasonally weaker volumes in the business.
We've talked about the seasonality of the Akzo business which is a little higher because of the presence there Canadian presence.
But you do have higher fixed costs in architectural coatings especially with the store networks.
So that as you're putting less volume through the cost structure both manufacturing distribution and stores network that will affect your profitability for the business in these seasonally low quarters.
And the other thing I would add is that even in some places where we had some volume uptick in Asia for instance there was a little bit of currency headwind there.
So you have to take that into account too.
Research Division</strong> I think earlier in the call you commented that if you excluded the marine business the volumes would have been flat in the fourth quarter and Performance Coatings.
What were the other things that shrank? Why weren't Performance Coatings even a little bit stronger excluding the contraction in marine? Well I think as we indicated in the supplemental material from this afternoon Jeff that we are in the fourth quarter still experiencing the volume declines in our legacy architectural business from the loss of the price points the low-end price points at Lowe's.
So that was the other volume indicator in the fourth quarter for Performance Coatings.
We had growth Jeff in aerospace and refinish that offset that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly why have you increased prices in company-owned stores? There's not really a lot of raw material inflation.
Are your prices lower than some of your competitors? Or what's the justification you've got? No.
There is still inflationary cost in the store network.
Both -- from a distribution standpoint we have higher transportation higher labor and benefit costs.
So these costs are still impacting our businesses and so this was what we felt was the right opportunity to announce these price increases early in the year the beginning of the season that we would be in a position to offset these increases as we move through the year.
And your next question comes from the line of Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Chuck you seem cautiously optimistic on the organic growth outlook.
Can you talk a bit about what's kind of your macro call on global industrial production? And then what -- given all the cost cutting and productivity moves you've made over the last years what kind of incremental operating and gross profits do you see in businesses like EMEA or industrial? Well at this point our macro forecast on global industrial production is up 2% to 2.5% something in that neighborhood a little stronger here.
Obviously stronger in China today not as much in a couple of the other emerging regions.
And Europe just kind of breaking into kind of a positive low-single digit.
So overall we think that the improvement is going to be noticeable even if it isn't considered robust.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And can you comment on incremental -- what kind of operating leverage you would get from even a modest rebound in volumes in some of your key businesses? Hey Don this is Vince.
It depends obviously on the market and the region.
As Chuck alluded to in his opening remarks for us Europe provides the most upside as we've got -- as we've taken out a tremendous amount of cost and we've got good leverage there.
And we'd see margins between 25% and 40% incrementally depending on the business the time of year.
And elsewhere in the world it would be toward the lower end of that range.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally on the $1.5 billion from proceeds from the TRANSITIONS sale is the plan to do a significant share repurchase to offset the loss of the TRANSITION earnings as they go out the door? Or are you still focused on using that for acquisitions? Well again that would also be wrapped up in that $3 billion to $4 billion that we could potentially deploy -- or that we will deploy over the next 18 to 24 months.
And we will continue to have share repurchase and M&amp;A both as integral parts of the capital allocation strategy.
And in some quarters it might be more of one -- more of the other depending on the timing of the acquisition activity.
I can think -- you can see that we have actually absolutely been committed to returning cash to shareholders as evidenced by hitting $1 billion in 2013 with the significant amount we did also of $680 million in the fourth quarter.
So again that $1.5 billion is in that $3 billion to $4 billion that we intend to deploy.
Your next question comes from the line of Nils Wallin from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> On Slide 8 shows very helpful volume trends index to 2008 and it's I think interesting to show how much Europe is down as well as U.S.
and Canada.
Is there anything structural that would imply these volumes can't get back to the 2008 levels? And if so what would it -- if there isn't anything structural what would it take to get there? And how long? If you comment on the situation I'll take the example of the North American automotive industry.
When the volumes really declined by almost 50% here from 2007 through 2009 there was a view that we'll never get back to those peak years in automotive in North America of 2005 '06 or '07.
And here we are 3 4 years into the recovery at production volumes for North America in automotive at near records and we're going to see that we think continue in 2014.
So there is a lot of pessimism sometimes at the depth of these recessionary environments and I think it will take a while for Europe to get back to what we saw prior to the Great Recession but I think we're going to see that begin to turn.
There were a lot of structural and banking issues in Europe.
But I'm confident that they're going to start to see a modest recovery and it may take them quite a while because I think we addressed a number of those issues here in North America probably a little more painfully in the early parts of the recession but it did position us for a recovery.
And so I am confident that over time you will see the growth in Europe return may take a few more years.
If you look at that chart it's taken us 4 years and we're still not quite back overall in the economy to that level.
But you were seeing it in automotive now.
I think we're going to see it in the construction markets.
And I think we're going to start to see that line turn a little bit but it's going to be slow in Europe.
And we're certainly not expecting a robust recovery but we think we'll start to see those early signs of a positive economic growth even at a very low level.
And in automotive to Chuck's example there in Germany in France Italy U.K.
Spain even in commercial vehicles December registrations versus prior year were all up and that's a turn for some of those countries versus several months of being down year-over-year.
So that started to turn.
Architectural as I said before should be going from negative to modestly positive during the year 2014.
Refinish has already turned positive.
Aerospace has been positive.
So all those are positive indicators to start chipping away at that 20% you see on Slide 8.
And in fact in Germany when you look at industrial production or GDP those were all solidly positive with industrial production ahead of GDP because they've got some exports going in their favor as other parts of the world pick up growth.
But -- so U.K.
the strongest followed by Germany.
Benelux has been fairly strong; Poland returning to growth; and Spain turning positive.
So all positive indicators.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That was helpful.
Just on -- just turning to your protective coatings the synergies you got from selling protective coatings in the stores was that in the original synergy guidance? And if not what's the opportunity there? Well we were aware that there would be an opportunity to sell additional protective coatings in North America with the acquisition of Akzo North America business.
We also made a small acquisition in Canada during this time where we picked up -- or we returned the license to PPG for one of our Canadian distributors.
So we think that the combination of these opportunities not all just related to the Akzo acquisition are going to produce some positive synergies.
We think we're going to be able to see that capture throughout 2014 in a way that we were just getting started in some of these markets during 2013.
So we think it's an additional synergy opportunity.
We were aware that there'd be some of that but we think the opportunity is there if we can capitalize on it.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A question on Performance Coatings.
If we were to strip out the acquisitions would your fourth quarter margins have been flat up or down? Trying to get a sense for how the legacy PPG businesses would have been trending recognizing the size of the deals and the pronounced seasonality there.
Yes Kevin this is Vince again.
As you read the commentary we put out at 1:00 we had roughly $300 million of architectural acquisition-related sales in the segment and that was roughly at a breakeven for the quarter which is customary.
Last year that business was not owned by us.
It was in the red solidly in the red.
So we've made -- our synergies have made it a breakeven business in a seasonally low quarter.
And if you do the math on that you can see that our margins on the legacy Performance Coatings segment would be up year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if we adjusted for Deft in a similar fashion would that still be true Vince? Yes.
That was a small contributor.
It's a smaller business much smaller business.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
Secondarily Chuck you've been very active on portfolio management to say the least.
You've commented on M&amp;A a bit.
I'm wondering about your view on the divestiture side and whether we should anticipate anything in terms of flat glass or fiber glass say looking over the next year or 2.
Certainly looking over the next year we don't have any active discussions going on for those businesses.
As we've said in the past for these or any of our other less core activities that we would certainly consider a -- any transaction that created significant value for our shareholders.
But at this point over the next year or so we don't have any active discussions.
And we see these businesses as now benefiting from some of the recovery here in North America and some of our key markets.
So we view them as stronger contributors over the next year as some of these markets recover.
Research Division</strong> And finally if I may just on a housekeeping issue.
Would you intend to leave Optical in your financials or move it to discontinued operation for the first quarter? Well as we've said we intend for the business to -- transaction to close in the first half of the year.
And once the conditions for a closing have been met at that point in time we would move it to discontinued operations.
So all we can say right now is it'll be sometime in the first half.
And of course once it moves to disc ops it will recast for all periods presented.
But that would be a recast for the TRANSITIONS business.
Right right.
Obviously we have an ongoing Optical and Specialty Materials business that's also performing well.
Now if you look at our quarterly performance in silicas in our OLED business and the remaining pieces of Optical outside of TRANSITIONS we have what we feel is a strong business portfolio outside of TRANSITIONS which as Frank described would move into discontinued ops with the -- with all the conditions to closing that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ivan Marcuse from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked.
Just have a couple of quick ones.
In the fourth quarter what was your -- for coatings the raw material basket was that up or down or flat year-over-year? I would say flat.
Yes.
Ivan if you dissect that a little more detailed we are seeing as Chuck alluded to earlier higher propylene derivative costs year-over-year offset by some other items that are slower in terms of pricing.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then in the packaging business you mentioned that was up in all regions except for Europe.
Was Europe just more of a market demand thing or was there some sort of share -- market share shift? That was -- I think the market conditions in Europe were slower.
But there has been an increased competitive activity in the packaging coatings business especially in the European region.
But obviously we are holding on our own and growing in the markets that have growth like Asia.
Research Division</strong> And then my last question you may have touched on this in a previous answer I just missed it.
But you mentioned that the U.K.
was up and historically I believe that U.K.
has been -- is a bit of a leading indicator for PPG for that region.
Historically how long has -- does the other countries follow if that's true U.K.
after you see it sort of turn? If you understand my question.
We do and I think historically what we've seen is the U.K.
markets have -- if the U.S.
starts to turn we see the U.K.
improvement earlier than Continental Europe.
And then probably if you look at the tendencies or the trends that we're seeing that's going to be followed by Eastern Europe.
So what we saw in 2013 was a clear improvement across a number of markets in the U.K.
They're not the leading automotive producer.
But certainly in automotive sales and in production the U.K.
was growing.
The architectural market turned around in the U.K.
We would look then for the Western Europe to follow usually with a couple of quarters lag.
And then from there you'd usually see then Eastern Europe follow.
So I would say that's one of the reasons why we feel that there will be a positive turn in Europe albeit I think we use the word fragile.
I would say it's going to be weak.
But the markets that have been weaker and shown less signs of a turnaround have been in Eastern Europe.
And we're looking here in the first half to see some improvement in Western Europe now.
And hopefully by the latter half of the year to see some of the economies in Eastern Europe also begin to stabilize and turn around.
Yes.
Ivan I mean in the U.K.
where a lot of our business is architectural that's one of the reasons we're seeing that business turn positive in 2014.
That economy's followed by Germany where we have more of a business in automotive and so we've seen -- already seen that turn positive and that trend should continue.
What'll really help us from an operating leverage standpoint is when France turns.
And right now of course it's been a little bit flattish.
But when that turns substantial part of that business is architectural and that'll really help us accelerate the growth there and in a very accretive way.
We just are -- it's just an uncertainty as to when that will turn as the U.K.
has.
So far it hasn't had happened but we're hopeful for sometime in 2014 for that to turn also.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Dan from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered and I apologize if it did miss this earlier.
Can you just clarify of the forward guidance you gave on restructuring-related benefits how much of that is related to the acquired AkzoNobel assets? Yes glad you asked the question Charlie.
If you look we laid out in the press release and the prepared remarks $75 million to $90 million of incremental year-over-year cost savings.
Those are programs that we've announced previously.
If you recall we closed on the acquisition in April.
We put out a synergy target and also indicated we'd have some restructuring which we announced in the third quarter.
And so this $75 million to $90 million are programs that we've already announced.
The lion's share of that will occur in our Performance Coatings segment with the synergy capture of Akzo.
We also have some targeted synergy -- targeted cost savings excuse me in restructuring and in a few other businesses.
And again we laid this out in our third quarter.
That included much smaller amounts in businesses like architectural EMEA marine and fiber glass.
So of the $75 million to $90 million the lion's share of that would be specific to that acquisition and a much smaller portion allocated to those 3 other buckets.
Your next question comes from the line of John Roberts from UBS.
Research Division</strong> It sounds like we'll have the TRANSITIONS business in the earnings here in the first quarter.
Should we expect another really strong quarter? I mean the $1.5 billion doesn't change and you get to keep half of anything you can generate over the next couple of quarters.
So I assume you're running that business relatively hard right now.
Yes.
John again we can't tell when we're going to get the final regulatory approvals which is what we're waiting on.
But until we do that we'll continue to classify the business as continuing.
We didn't talk a lot about it but the business had a very successful Q4.
Substantial event occurred with the new release of a Gen VII product in North America about a week or so ago.
There was a nice pipeline fill in Q4.
And we're certainly still waiting to see how that is going to translate in Q1 at market sales but we're certainly excited.
We did see good progress last year in Europe under similar circumstances.
So yes we feel good about the business.
The fourth quarter was strong and we expect that to continue here early part of the year.
Research Division</strong> If you had another 14% sales growth in that segment would you have another 25% earnings growth? Is that incremental math still in play in the first quarter? Yes all that sales growth as Chuck alluded to was not all TRANSITIONS.
We did have good silica.
We did have good optical products outside of TRANSITIONS.
Typically these businesses coatings and specialty materials do have a lot of leverage on the upside to a degree.
Research Division</strong> And then secondly are the same-store sales in the PPG stores benefiting at all from closure of Glidden stores? That is are you capturing some of that closure sales volume in that same-store sales number or in your continuing stores? Yes we think there is some of that a small piece.
As we've tried to analyze it over the last few quarters we obviously have closed stores in the combined network now.
So we're looking to maintain as many of those sales in the remaining stores.
So again a very -- what we feel is a very solid number for same-store sales growth for PPG but we think there is a little bit of benefit in there from the closed Glidden stores in the network.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Hocevar from Northcoast Research.
I was wondering what your visibility is like in the marine market and as the year progresses if you see that flattening out.
Or do you expect kind of these negative volume comps to continue throughout all of 2014? Well when you look at our sales over the course of 2012 and 2013 and the new business that we're capturing for future sales we experienced probably one of the larger decreases in our marine sales between the fourth quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2013.
So one of the things that we're suffering in the fourth quarter is the comparison with what was still a stronger period of sales level in marine from business that had been previously booked and was being finished up.
So I think in the first quarter of 2014 and throughout the year we will have let's call them easier sales comparables with the prior year.
And we are seeing new bookings growth but I would not expect the sales level to move up significantly until the latter part of 2014.
But certainly we're seeing a stable level of sales now going into 2014.
So the comparables will be better.
Okay great.
And in terms of the auto OEM business could you -- you mentioned you expect to outperform the industry again in 2014 and I believe you've outperformed the industry 700 or 800 basis points something like that in 2013.
Is that type of outperformance what we should expect in 2014 as well? Or is that a little bit optimistic? I would say that I don't know that we look for that type of outperformance in every year.
We think that we've benefited again as we mentioned on the technology side and being well positioned in the fastest-growing markets in places like North America or in China.
So I think on a longer-term basis you wouldn't expect that but we still feel that we have positive momentum going into 2014.
And one of the other factors too is that as the Japanese OEMs and even some of the European OEMs localize production in other markets to add incremental capacity we do tend to benefit from that by virtue of our technology service levels contact process whatever.
So new facilities we tend to get a very good portion of that market in addition to the layers as a result of some of the technologies in existing facilities.
So that also helps to contribute to having some level of over performance versus the market going forward.
All right ladies and gentlemen we have time for one final question and that question is coming from the line of James Sheehan from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Chuck just wondering on the price increases in the company-owned stores for the Akzo stores in particular are the price increases equivalent to those in the legacy PPG stores? Or are they a little bit higher or lower? Well right now we're consolidating store operating systems.
We're consolidating management and practices.
So you should expect similar strategies and policies including pricing regardless of whether these were a legacy Akzo or PPG's store.
Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude the question-and-answer portion of today's call.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Vince Morales for closing remarks.
I just want to thank everybody again for their attention and interest in PPG.
If you have any further questions please contact our Investor Relations function.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may all now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the First Quarter 2014 PPG Industries Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Philip and I’ll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are now in a listen-only mode.
Later we will be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Vince Morales Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Philip and good afternoon everybody.
Again this is Vince Morales I am the Vice President of Investor Relations for PPG.
Welcome to PPG’s first quarter 2014 financial teleconference.
Joining me from PPG today on the call is Chuck Bunch PPG’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Frank Sklarsky Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our comments relate to the financial information we released today April 17 2014.
I will remind everybody that we posted detailed commentary and accompanying presentation slides on our Investor Center at our website www.ppg.com.
These slides are available on the webcast site as well and provide additional support to the opening comments Chuck will make in a few moments.
Following Chuck’s perspectives on the company’s results for the quarter we’ll move directly to the Q&amp;A session.
Both the prepared commentary and discussion during the Q&amp;A may contain forward-looking statements reflecting the company’s current view about future events and their potential effect on PPG’s operating and financial performance.
These statements involve uncertainties and risks which may cause actual results to differ.
The company is under no obligation to provide subsequent updates to these forward-looking statements.
Today’s presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The company has provided in the appendix of the presentation materials which again are available on our website reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
For additional information please refer to PPG’s filings with the SEC.
Now let me introduce PPG’s Chairman and CEO Chuck Bunch.
Thank you Vince.
And welcome everyone.
We appreciate your continued interest in PPG Industries.
Today we reported record first quarter 2014 financial results from continuing operations including records in sales and adjusted earnings per diluted share.
This strong performance occurred despite continued mixed global economic conditions and inclement weather that postponed demand in some of our U.S.
businesses and emerging region currency headwinds.
Even with these challenges we delivered record first quarter sales of $3.6 billion eclipsing last year’s figure by 17%.
Our global volumes grew 5% representing our largest gain in three years.
Each region also posted solid volume growth led by the U.S.
and Canada as our coatings volumes here improved by 7%.
Volume improvements were achieved in most businesses as overall economic conditions in this region remain solid.
Year-over-year European volumes advanced 5%.
This represents our first volume increase in that region in 10 quarters reflecting the early stages of an economic recovery there.
Emerging region volume performance also improved year-over-year and sequentially versus the fourth quarter although results remained mixed by country and industry.
Each of our major regions benefited from improved demand in automotive OEM aerospace and automotive refinish as we continue to outpace the industry growth rates in these end use markets due to our leading technologies and focus on customer service.
Also our architectural coatings EMEA business delivered mid-single digit volume growth including some benefits from favorable weather.
Supplementing our organic growth were acquisition related sales gains of about $360 million which represents over 11% sales growth.
From an earnings perspective each region delivered higher pretax earnings led by Europe where our earnings growth was nearly 40%.
We realized excellent earnings leverage on the improved demand as a result of the actions we have taken in the past several years to significantly lower our cost structure.
In addition our ongoing cash deployment contributed to the earnings growth.
This includes higher earnings from additional acquisition related cost synergy achievement and continued implementation of our restructuring program announced last year.
We also repurchased $200 million or 1.1 million shares of PPG stock in the quarter.
As a result of all these actions our adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were $1.98 up more than 40% versus last year’s comparable figure and a record for the company.
And we more than fully replaced these earnings from the businesses divested in the quarter.
As we previously communicated we finalized the sale of our interest in the Transitions Optical joint venture in our sun lens business at the end of March.
Results for the divested businesses are now reported in discontinued operations and prior year results have been recast accordingly.
We also introduced a new reportable business segment structure.
Lastly we received gross proceeds of more than $1.7 billion from the divestitures which added to our already strong cash position.
We ended the quarter with $3 billion of cash and short-term investments including strong first quarter cash from operations aided by the higher earnings and continued improvements in working capital.
Looking ahead we anticipate solid global growth to continue but it will not be uniformed across geographies or industries.
We remain well positioned with the balance coatings portfolio both regionally and by end used market providing broad growth opportunities while minimizing the impact of any individual fluctuations.
We anticipate further earnings accretion from our internal actions including additional synergy capture from the ongoing integration of our acquisitions and further implementation of our restructuring program.
Finally we intend to deploy our cash balance in a timely yet disciplined manner with a continued emphasis on earnings accretive cash uses including additional acquisitions and share repurchases.
We are still targeting earnings accretive cash deployment of $3 billion to $4 billion through the end of next year.
Also we remain focused on returning cash to shareholders.
Today our Board of Directors approved a $2 million of share repurchase program and they also approved a 10% per share dividend increase.
In summary I am pleased we were able to begin 2014 by delivering record first quarter financial results.
We remain focused on aggressively managing our business to deliver continued top and bottom-line growth this year and on creating additional value for our shareholders.
Once again we appreciate your interest in PPG.
And this concludes our prepared remarks.
Now operator would you please open the line for questions.
Of course.
(Operator Instructions).
And your first question comes from line of Robert Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
This is actually Neal Sangani on for Bob.
A question on the industrial business in addition to the Akzo acquisition it looks like you’re annualizing point last year where you really started to outpace the industry growth rates.
Does that suggest maybe a deceleration in the last three quarters of the year or are you going to see something similar going forward? Neal could you repeat the question please? Looking at the industrial business it looks like you’re lapping some of that outperformance over the specifically in auto OEM over last year when you started outperforming the industry rates.
Does that suggest a deceleration going forward or are you going to see a similar pace of outperformance going forward? I would say that yes we continue to feel optimistic about the automotive OEM business both the underlying market where we are seeing good growth rates as well as our positions in the various geographies and with our customers.
So we can’t be sure we’ll continue to have growth in excess of let’s call it these global averages.
But we think we’re doing quite well and have good momentum in the business.
And so we would say we remain optimistic overall in the industrial segments and in auto OEM in the auto OEM business in particular.
And you also didn’t specifically call out raw materials much in the prepared remarks is that something you are seeing or is it some type of lag that we should see in next coming quarters? I would say raw materials for us have been relatively benign.
We have had a few commodities actually slightly below our last year’s average a few slightly above.
We are projecting for the year low single-digit inflation in raw materials and we have some other inflationary costs labor transportation natural gas.
But right now overall I would say raw materials it’s a relatively benign story for us early in the year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Neal.
All right your next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Please proceed.
Hey guys good afternoon.
First off just on the macro outlook for Europe Chuck how much of the improvement do you think is purely from just easier comparisons over the last couple of years versus any sort of structural improvement.
And of the various end markets that you are exposed to in the region which particular one are you most optimistic for specific to this year? Well I would say the end of 2012 and almost all of 2013 Europe was very weak.
So we do have let's call that easier comparables compared to last year.
But we saw what we thought was some pretty solid volume growth some improvement in economic industries.
So we're more optimistic that this is the early days or early stages of a modest improvement.
We talked about some of the sectors more broadly; automotive has been a nice bright spot in terms of improving volumes for the European region.
Aerospace although smaller in Europe is still a solid business for us.
We finished the first signs of volume improvement and the construction markets they have been a little slower to recover but we saw some of that recovery in that.
We have signaled the last quarter especially in the Northern; let's say the Northern geographies the UK Benelux were areas where the construction markets were also showing some early signs of improvement.
So those are all I think encouraging for us.
Okay.
And then a commentary on packaging being a little bit weaker in Europe which particular end market did you see the weakness in because one of your presumably one of your bigger customers reported this morning the beverage can side and Europe was actually up for them so just curious why the difference there? Well we have a big exposure in Europe on both the food and the beverage side; there is also a lot of activity in terms of BPA non-intent or BPA free coatings so a lot of trialing going on there.
There is heightened also heightened competitive activity in the European packaging coatings right now.
So there are a few moving pieces on the European side although the business for us grew nicely in the Asia Pacific region but there was more competitive activity in Europe during this quarter.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Thanks Ghansham.
Alright your next question comes from the line of David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Chuck just on Comex I know you can’t say too much but obviously bid the first time.
Is there still interest from institutional standpoint towards that asset and beyond Comex can you discuss the M&amp;A pipeline globally for coatings?  Well we continue to be interested in making acquisitions both in the coatings space and in the near adjacencies of specialty chemicals.
We look at almost all potential acquisitions both small and large; we made just a couple of what I would call smaller this year in the first quarter.
So we continue to be interested and look at all of the acquisitions.
I would say the pipeline I find somewhat encouraging at this point.
These are not all big deals as we announced with high (inaudible) supply but I think there is a good level of dialog I’m little more optimistic today than I was six months ago as we proceed with some of these conversations.
So I would say I am encouraged.
And so just on auto OEM you have done a fantastic job and this business is growing well above the market.
How long can it continue? Can you grow 8% 9% for the full year or will grow slow back half of the year in auto OEM? I think auto OEM in terms of the general market if you look at the [overly] we’re seeing here in the North American market we’re still seeing good growth we’ll be at little or maybe slightly lower than where we were last year but we’re just looking 4% 5% growth.
We saw the sales come back here in North America in March.
So we feel pretty good about market conditions here in Europe as we discussed it is finally showing some volume improvement and some strength and China has continued as our largest market in Asia it’s continued fairly soft.
So we have again a good mix of technological innovations all layers in the automotive coatings profile.
And so we think that we have a good opportunity with the technologies and we do business with almost all of the major automotive OEMs both the global ones and it looks very strong national domestic players around the world.
So we think that we’re well positioned we’ll continue the slower momentum and the overall market on a global basis we think is pretty good.
And David this is Frank.
Recall that we continued to do well when the Japanese and European makers locate new manufacturing facilities outside their home markets because of our product consistency service level or whatever.
So the transplant facilities we’re getting plants we’re getting layer.
So to the extent we’re able to continue to do that when we may not have the incremental several digits percentage above the market growth rates as we have in the past we think we have ways to continue to enhance our share position.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Dave.
All right.
And our next question comes from the line of John McNulty with Credit Suisse.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my question.
So now that you have gotten a lot of the transactions done transitions done access being integrated in when we start thinking about your SG&amp;A line and its ratio to sales how should we be thinking about that going forward.
Where can you get that overtime like order where you’ve been in the kind of low 20s in the past.
Is that an area that we can think about going forward should it be lower than that like how should we think about that? John this is Vince.
I think the first quarter would be approximately the first quarter doesn’t include any of the divested businesses all of the results [both] last year with commodity chemicals and this year with Transitions has been moved to discontinued operations.
So the first quarter would give you a proxy for that particular quarter’s return on sales.
We did restate the entire 2013 year that’s available via in 8-K filing.
And you could see again in those numbers for 2013 by quarter what our sales what our SG&amp;A as a percent of sales was last year.
And that would include some seasonality to it; you really have to look at it on a quarterly basis buts that’s what I would point to you o John.
Okay.
I mean maybe taking it from a slightly different angle when we think about some of your businesses are really just starting to recover now you also have Akzo really kind of early in this integration stages.
So I guess as we think about how the SG&amp;A launch progressed over the next few years versus your sales how should we be thinking about the leverage that you should be getting off of the SG&amp;A line going forward? Yes.
And we don’t want to necessarily pull whether it’s going to be 50 basis points or 100 basis points.
There will definitely be operating leverage.
So when we characterize the incremental profitability of 30% to 40% plus going to the bottom line from incremental revenue dollar some of that comes from the fixed base in the cogs line and some of that comes from the operating leverage from the SG&amp;A line because the only part of SG&amp;A where we have to add traditional revenue dollars is sales resources.
The back office as we continue to move toward shared services environments in the regions will definitely give us leverage and SG&amp;A.
So that’s got a specific percentage but there will clearly be the opportunity to gradually reduce that as a percent of revenue as the markets recover.
Particularly in Europe where we have an infrastructure there we’re accelerating moving things into shared services center in Czech Republic and so we don’t have to add incremental resources on that pure G&amp;A line as the revenue line creates.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Thanks John.
And your next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Yes good afternoon.
If I look at your volume growth at the company level of nearly 5%.
It’s double or more than double that of your principal global competitor that reported this morning.
And I guess I’m tempted to ask you about market share trends in that context.
Obviously there is a mix differential and I saw your plus 10 on auto OEMs volume.
But if I put auto OEM on the side are there other categories where you feel you’re gaining significant market share versus your competitors these days? Well I would say first of all Kevin that we -- today is a busy day for us.
We had our Board Meeting our Annual Shareholders Meeting.
So we haven’t had an opportunity to look at our competitor’s either their earnings reports or their slides or Q&amp;A.
But I would say that we don’t have the same even if you look at the global business profile we don’t have quite the same mix of businesses.
And I think you indicated we did well in automotive OEM as that market continues to recover.
They don’t have as much exposure with the acquisition that we made of their business here in North America.
So some of our strongest volume growth as you know was here in North America as the economy despite the weather continues to improve they don’t have as much exposure here.
So those would be some things that I would point to but it’s really too early and it’s only one quarter to comment that there would be any change in share it may be do as much to just regional mix for the company.
And then I guess second quarter on returning capital to shareholders is the timeline are likely pace of execution on your $2 billion share repurchase program meant to be coincident with the end of 2015 bracket on your 3 billion to 4 billion goal or is that not necessarily the case perhaps you can just comment on what your strategy will be there?  Yes.
So this Frank.
We have left no timeframe specifically on a $2 billion.
What we have said is we are going to deploy the $3 billion to $4 billion over the next 12 to 18 months as shareholder friendly manner.
What we would say about the share purchase is we are committed to returning that cash to shareholders but the pace and the timing will be dependent upon market and economic conditions but it will also be dependent upon the magnitude and the timing of acquisition activity.
And we’ve said consistently that acquisitions accretive acquisitions would take priority.
But the message here is that we will deliver that value to shareholders by acquisitions when available and then also making sure that we maintain that commitment to return that cash to shareholders or deploy that cash I would say in accretive manner to the extent that we don’t execute all of that $3 billion to $4 billion acquisition activity over the next 12 to 18 months.
We will continue to have share repurchases be an integral part of the capital allocation philosophy.
Okay.
And then last question if I may.
Can you speak to your U.S.
architectural coating sales by channel please? Well I would say that we had some mix effects and I would say different strength by channel Kevin.
Overall I would say that we had good strength in U.S.
stores channel.
We’re saying mid single-digit improvement there again we have some moving parts because of some of the store closures after as part of the integration.
We saw also volume increases in our home center channel although weakest of the few channels.
And we think it’s more related to weather here with kind of the geographic mix.
But the dealer channel was weaker from a volume standpoint in the first quarter here in North America.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Kevin.
All right.
Next question comes from line of Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
Please proceed.
Chuck a question on your outlook does this stronger start to the year and perhaps better than expected operating leverage make you more optimistic on your earnings growth potential for calendar 2014?  Yes I do feel a little better Don.
And Europe was encouraging.
Here I think we did well despite what I think was some poor weather conditions that affected some of the end use markets as well as just sort of supply chain transportation.
In China there has been a lot of discussion around China the automotive related businesses in China continue to do well.
This is automotive OEM automotive parts automotive refinish some of the mixed and some of the other end use markets in Asia like consumer electronics.
But as I mentioned packaging coatings some of the construction related markets in China held up.
So I would say here in April as we look back on the quarter I would say I’m more encouraged for 2014.
We have some geopolitical events we’re monitoring currencies in emerging regions there are few watch-outs I guess as you say but in general especially based on the first quarter we’re encouraged.
And I want to go back to issue of how you are outgrowing the industry on autos and not just the mix of say transplants; is it a technology issue or your better technology for example in e-coat and things like that and are there other opportunities to grow through technology transfer amongst your various businesses?  I would say yes we were introducing and I think we sort of talked about this last year the introduction of the new generation side of e-coat.
And I think that has continued to build momentum for us.
We’ve taken that product global with our global customer base.
And so I'd say from an echo perspective we feel technology innovation and development backed up by our service and globalization in all regions of the world.
So I would say that's an example.
And then we are also working with new contact processes that would be in the top coat layer.
This is primers to base and clear coats and some compression of these layers; we've had good waterborne technology introductions.
And I think the advantages of some of our new technologies are most evident when you have this new Greenfield plants sort of starting around the world especially in the emerging regions but also here in places like Mexico or the Southern part of the U.S.
So I would say we are very pleased with the technology that we've been developing and the receptivity on the part of our customers.
And I would say this is probably the biggest story around the growth that we’ve had in auto OEM.
Thank you.
Thanks Don.
All right our next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch from Wells Fargo Securities.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon gentlemen.
Hi Frank.
Obviously you had some positive volumes overall in Southern Europe and you were able to translate that into fantastic earnings improvement.
What role is our cost reduction is playing? And what [inning] are we in some of the cost reduction efforts Frank had outlined in the past? Yes that’s right.
This is Frank.
So we had announced of course that 2013 our restructuring program in the third quarter which had a lot to do with completing of synergies for the North American Akzo business that we acquired but also where we had identified some rationalization opportunities in other markets which were perhaps weak up to that point.
And so that is playing a role and once we take that cost out obviously that the teams have been dedicate to making sure that as revenue grows we do not add that cost back and so that leverage is taking place.
And as we go through 2014 we are expecting somewhere between $75 million and $90 million of incremental savings from these restructuring and synergy programs.
So that will continue to benefit the bottom-line and the leverage that you spoke about.
All right terrific.
And you mentioned I guess mid single-digit margins on the Akzo North American business and I guess with all (inaudible) headed to the mid-teens what sort of timing are you thinking up there?  Frank it’s Vince.
One thing we did in the first quarter which I’ll remind due to seasonally slower quarter for everybody in the architectural business in this country our projections will be in the above 10% by the end of this year on a run rate basis and that our targeted level by the middle to end of ‘15 which is 12.5% 13%.
Terrific.
And then lastly you referenced some of the positive benefits from weather in Europe is there a case that there might have been some pull forward from Q2 to Q1 or not necessarily?  I think it’s always a good indicator when you get better weather in the first quarter and it tends to lengthen the season.
Did we pull some things forward? I wouldn’t necessarily say that it depends on how the weather shapes up.
But I would say we are encouraged because even in market that’s been weaker in Europe Frank Eastern Europe now they did have better weather but we saw them finally bounce back and we have some nice shares in markets like Poland where we had struggled a little bit during the latter half of 2012 and 2013.
So I think the weather is helping but I don’t think it’s going to produce here in the second quarter some snap back in terms of the volume momentum.
I think we feel pretty good that we have some strength here that the weather just will make the season longer and then hopefully better if it holds out for the year.
Yes.
And then if you look at the global insights projections as Chuck said in his remarks the recovery still hasn’t been totally even by countries.
There are still some countries in Western Europe that haven’t recovered as fast as others so that still represents upside for us in particularly in some of the architectural markets.
Terrific.
Thank you so much.
Thanks Frank.
All right our next question comes from line of John Roberts from UBS.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon.
Chuck when you talk about adjacencies in terms of your acquisition strategies is it anything in surface chemistry related or how broad would you define adjacency areas? Well when we talk about adjacencies we are talking about businesses that we are already in the end used markets that we were already in.
So if you look at some of the best examples adhesives ceilings pretreatment these are three examples of adjacent chemistries that build on our strength we’re already in these businesses in automotive in aerospace in industrial and this would be what I would call near adjacencies with good synergies and similar end used markets surface chemistries would be obviously one of those.
And could you talk about anything in the silicas area? We have now reconstituted the business of specially coatings and materials that includes our precipitated silicas business along with OLED dyes Teslin and some of our research capabilities in optical in to the monomer business.
So we had not excluded silicas as a possible area of growth.
You saw the comments that we made around that business unit for the first quarter they have a very good growth across the spectrum of the end use markets and products there in specialty coatings in materials.
So we would not exclude growth in the silicas business and margins and growth performance quite good not only in the first quarter that we just finished but over the last year and half to two years we see good growth in that business.
And we’re looking forward to a very solid year for the businesses.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
All right.
Our next question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Sure thanks very much.
Just looking at your 5% volume growth and some of the markets for your outperforming the balance of the industry.
Could you talk a little bit about how you’re thinking about price here are you happy with your price level particularly in Europe is that something that you think there could be maybe the high level just some focus on going forward and are you premium priced as it relates to your business in autos or what’s the outlook here? Are you talking now about the automotive business or more broadly for PPG’s coatings business? Well I was talking more broadly about the European business which is about the pickup I was just wondering if you’re happy where the price points sold out? And then sort of separately to autos broadly where you are from the pricing perspective just given your market share performance relative to the peers? As we talked about we see a relatively benign raw material inflation environment at least here early in the year.
That’s always been one of the drivers of the inflationary environment for our pricing strategies.
We typically don’t price off a narrow a more narrowly focused spot pricing opportunistic.
We tend to be longer term in our approach.
So at this point I would say that even though there maybe some tactical opportunities in products or specific markets I would say the pricing environment today in Europe is relatively flat.
And that’s consistent with the major inflationary factors although we are watching.
So that there has been some discussion that even though there has been a lot of inflation in Europe over the last few quarters that could pick up later this year if we see continued volume growth.
So we’re watching carefully but right at this point I would say there are no major initiatives.
Okay thanks very much.
That’s very helpful.
I’ll pass along.
Thanks Vince.
Alright.
Our next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar from Citi.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon it’s Dan Jester on for P.J.
Circling back to the architectural business in North America.
One of your competitors is rolling out a premium branded product through the one of the bigger independent dealer channels.
And I was just wondering if you are seeing any changes in that competitive landscape or maybe promotions ahead of the spring painting season?  I think I know what you are referring to and at this point I would say it is very it’s early in the season to see what if any impact any rollout would have in the independent dealer or hardware store channel.
I think we have all been encouraged by what we are seeing in terms of a market potential.
I think you are going to see a lot of new product line extensions we’ve seen new campaigns supporting some of these rollouts and introductions.
So I think it’s going to be a competitive space here in 2014.
But I think the opportunities will be there for all of the suppliers if the current momentum around the construction markets is maintained.
Okay.
And then secondly and I apologize if I missed this from earlier.
Have you completed all of the Akzo related store closings and can you sort of update us on what your expectation is for sort of the net change in your company own stores will be in 2014 versus 2013?  Yes.
This is Vince.
We have completed the store closures that we earmarked for the acquisition on a net basis it was just around 100 stores and we move to a growth mode from a store perspective.
On a short to mid to long-term basis we are going to add 25 to 40 stores a year and a lot of these differ each year so that’s we’re starting with that growth expectation beginning this year.
Great.
Thank you very much.
All right.
Our next question comes from line of Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon.
Two quick questions on incremental margins first for Europe.
How far do you think you can expand volumes before incremental margins start to deteriorate? When do you see there is a 10% or 15% kind of leeway before you see a step down? And secondly on the emerging markets do you think that you need to see a [sergeant] level of volume growth underlying volume growth to start to see higher incremental margins there? We’ll take the European one first.
We still think there is a good amount of headroom.
You mentioned 10% to 15% that’s only a possibility because when you look at capacity utilization levels as where they are and with volumes still as of the end of the year about 20% below peak there is ample headroom to continue to accrete the bottom-line at that 30% to 40% for a while.
When you talk about emerging markets it depends on the emerging market; Latin America where our profitability is a little linear than it is in some of the markets like China for instance we have a lot of opportunity in Latin America for instance by changing the mix of our inputs so as we’re putting capital into -- putting resin capacity in Brazil for instance that will give us some kind of a step function improvement in raw material costs which will go right to the bottom-line avoiding duties on incoming raw materials.
For China for instance in some cases we will be building new capacity so while you might not get the same leverage to the bottom line on the incremental revenue we will clearly be accreting margin to the bottom line in a way that still creates shareholder value because we’re getting good IRRs on our new capacity investments.
And so we make those decisions on a case by case basis.
We have plans over the next couple of years to enhance our capacity of shipping the automotive industrial space and that tends to be very accretive from a value creation standpoint.
But also -- and while it may not substantially enhance margin percentage it will substantially enhance margin dollars per unit per dollar invested.
And Laurence this is Vince.
One other comment I will make on Q1 in particular with respect to emerging regions is we did see higher earnings in emerging regions in Q1.
Those earnings were on higher volumes but those earnings were tempered a bit by foreign currency negative foreign currency translation.
And so on a non-U.S.
denominator local currency perspective our margins were higher than they were and we brought them back to the U.S.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
And just [going to tease out] one nuance on the emerging market side.
Are there any regions where a small acquisition could have a material change in market structure and therefore help margins that way? I would -- I’m trying to think of but I would say that it’s somewhat theoretical as a question in some cases that can happen but at this point I wouldn’t say that that’s a significant factor or something that we see as likely.
Thank you.
Thanks Laurence.
Our next question comes from line of Nils Wallin from CLSA.
Please proceed.
Thanks and good afternoon gentlemen.
On marine I know that it stabilized over the last couple of quarters but it’s still trending down.
When do you guys think that you will see at least a flat comp or a positive comp in that business? I would say in the we should see stability through the course of 2014.
And we're looking for growth returning on a volume basis in marine OEM in 2015.
Okay.
The independent channel in North American architectural is it's consistently been called out as weak.
Is there any reason that this needs to be a channel that PPG needs to be in or even if you don't need to be in it there is a significant loss of synergy if you try to exit that channel? Well we have a long-term commitment to the inter channel it's been one of PPG's strength.
So over the years in the North American market we intend to continue to support our independent dealer base the channel has not grown as much over the last decade or more largely due to the growth of some of the national home centers and the company owned stores.
But it’s still an important channel for the industry and an important channel for PPG.
And we continue to support it and we work to ensure that it can be as successful as possible and it should be well positioned with the improvements that we see in the underlying markets over the next couple years wasn’t as evident in the first quarter and the dealers do tend to watch their inventories a little more closely our dealer profile is skewed more to the let’s call it colder weather regions.
So we think they were impacted a little more than the other channels but we think there will be growth there as well during the course of this year.
Understood thanks.
And just finally in the last two years obviously there has been a dramatic change in the portfolio.
Is there any reason to expect that there are going to be dramatic changes going forward or have you strategically looked now more towards just intensifying your coatings division?  We think that we have largely completed the transformation.
There are continued consolidation and growth opportunities in the coating space and some of the new adjacencies that we talked about on this call.
So I think you have seen largely complete now the PPG transformation.
Although there are couple of business units that aren’t in the coatings or adjacent space but these are very small now for PPG’s total portfolio.
Thanks for your help.
Thanks Nils.
Our next question comes from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn from Longbow Research.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon guys and congratulations on a good start to the year.
Thanks Dmitry.
Question on we touched on the weather impact in architectural and it didn’t sound like it was all that material for you although you did called it out in the press release but was there a weather related factor in your collision repair business on the automotive aftermarket side or may be not in this quarter but do you expect maybe a little bit of a pickup in that business in the second quarter as people get around to repairing their things and reruns? We think so.
The weather the inclement weather actually helps the automotive refinish business Dmitry as you know.
So we had more than our share of it here in the northern part of the U.S.
although in many cases one it was either -- we saw a lot of accidents so a lot of let’s call it built up demand that didn’t get completed in the first quarter and we also had some supply chain issues.
We’re shipping a lot of order base automotive refinish coatings now.
So those supply lines were disrupted at several times during the quarter.
So we think that the next few quarters for our North American business are going to be good because there will be a back -- and there is a backlog of work now in the collision shops.
And so we think that the next couple of quarters here in North America should be good ones.
Switching gears a little bit if you talk about your Asian paint business and how that’s doing if I would recall for much of 2013 it was under pressure and delivered some lower volumes from time to time.
Are you seeing that business turnaround or at least stabilize and sort of what’s your expectations for that in 2014? This is Asia Pacific in general for the region or Asian Paints our joint venture in India Dmitry what -- we were cutting out there as you were asking the question? Okay.
I am talking about the general Asian paint business as architectural coatings that you report in the performance materials.
Well now that you are reporting all your coatings but -- all your paint but when you used to report paint being basically North America and Asia talking about the Asian piece of that?  Okay.
Well we have in this case if we look at architectural coatings businesses in Asia for us those are two principal markets Australia New Zealand and China.
Australia New Zealand the market is positive.
We saw some growth here in as we -- in the second half of 2013 and the first quarter so our position in Australia continues to improve.
We have seen volume growth and improved profitability.
China likewise so it’s a smaller business so we have a smaller regional business in China focused in the East Coast major cities.
And we saw an improvement there as well again smaller volume growth for our business than what you have seen in some of the other western Tier II and Tier III cities.
But we saw a nice improvement for the business despite let’s call it the smaller size of our business in China that did grow there in terms of volume and profit.
Yes.
The only thing I would add to that is the fact that we did have good volume growth in those architectural markets in Asia fortunately in the first quarter versus the prior year we were subject to currency changes on the translation side principally in Australia and a significant change ever since Q1 ‘13.
And then finally I’d just like to follow-up on a question asked earlier around your strategy in the U.S.
or North American independent dealer channel.
You’ve increased your exposure there obviously with the Akzo acquisition and then recently you have announced a closer tie with the group of stores in the Northeast.
There has been some disruptions in the business and one of the largest suppliers into that market and they are under 3rd or 4th CEO and losing track already.
Is that an opportunity for you even though this is a market that maybe trailing sort of the growth rate that you would expect from company on stores or from big box DIY? Is it still a market that given maybe a little bit easier competitive environment where you can gain some share and actually become a more meaningful supplier into that channel? Well we feel that we have been -- we’ve had a commitment to the independent dealer channel here for many years.
And we’ve reaffirmed that Dmitry even with the acquisition that we made last year where we did pick up additional exposure to the independent dealer channel here in Canada but also got additional stores and home center sales as well.
So we think it’s been a -- it’s an opportunity for us to bring more value to the independent dealers so many of them are committed to staying in the market and growing despite the competitive environment.
So we think it’s a good opportunity for us.
Yes it’s not as fast growing as the other channels but we think there is a good role for us.
We can support these dealers and we’re going to continue to do that.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Dmitry.
All right.
And our next question comes from the line of Duffy Fischer from Barclays.
Please proceed.
Hey guys.
Hey Duffy.
Just quick question or maybe not quick.
Talk about the puts and takes and the difference for your business and architectural in the recovery that’s left in Europe versus the recovery that’s left in the U.S.
kind of where do you see the most upside in those two architectural markets say over the next three to four years?  Well let me think about that for a moment.
I think we are in the early innings of the recovery in Europe.
This has been -- and we have seen negative volumes for the last three or four years in the market.
We saw the biggest drops in the Southern Mediterranean regions in Europe.
So I would say that as we look at the markets now of UK and Benelux starting to come out and we are encouraged there.
Our biggest market in Europe is France.
We didn’t see as much an improvement overall in the construction indices in France.
So I would say that’s our biggest opportunity.
We don’t have much exposure in Southern Europe.
There is soft recovery there we have a smaller exposure.
So I don’t think we have as much to benefit in Spain or in Italy at this point.
And Eastern Europe has also been bettered.
And the first quarter you saw that for the first time we saw some nice improvement in markets I told.
So I would say that biggest opportunity -- I think we are still in the early innings of the regions or countries that the growth has restarted.
And I think for our biggest engine in Europe which is France if we can get them moving; and you have seen recent elections and more of a commitment around returning to growth in the French markets and as that works its way through to the construction markets I would say that’s our greatest opportunity.
So still early days in Europe on the construction side I think automotive is actually probably a little bit ahead of construction because they have a large export base in Europe.
Here I would say that we’re couple of years into the recovery.
And although it has been slower in coming than we thought so I do think that we’re going to see several more years Duffy of growth in architectural coatings here in this market.
We haven’t seen the commercial construction or non-residential side come back as strong most of the improvement we’ve seen in residential.
And that’s coming and helping us.
DIY was probably a little more affected here in the first quarter with weather but I think we have more to go on residential.
And non-residential which we were getting more optimistic about in back half of last year things slowed down a little bit we think more due to weather.
So I think that’s going to provide the impetus for the next couple of years completing this kind of residential recovery and with non-residential stuff coming through on an extended basis.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Duffy.
All right.
Next question comes from the line of Ivan Marcuse from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
A couple of quick questions on top the European question that was just asked.
What would your volumes be how much are they pre-downturn levels so if you compare them where they are today versus I guess 2011 when they started to tail off? We typically go back Ivan to 2008 that’s kind of a point in time we started to see volumes fall in Europe.
The volumes today versus 2008 levels are still down high teens percentages even with the early recovery we saw in first quarter.
Got you.
And then where are we and how much in synergies were -- it helped I guess performance chemicals or maybe performance coatings on -- from Akzo and how much more is there to go how much should you see going to the year?  We expect out of the 200 synergies that we said will be our ultimate goal by early 2015 our run rate by the end of this year should be around 170 or so out of that 200 with about 30 left to go remainder of the year.
We closed 2013 at a run rate of 100 so about 70 incremental kind of ramped up through 2014 from that 100 run rate to 170 run rate this year.
Great thanks for taking my questions.
Sure.
Thanks Ivan.
All right.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Reitzes from BroadArch Capital.
Hi.
Most of questions I had have been answered.
The one I would ask is that when you look at all the damage that was done by the storms in the first part of the year have you guys seen a pick up or do you anticipate pick up in the sale of paint et cetera during the second and third quarters as repair and modeling? Yes we do.
[Weather] like we have takes its toll.
We saw pick up last year after hurricane Sandy hit the East Coast.
I think we’ll -- we should be in a position in the second and third quarter for this year to I think capture more opportunities both from the [storms] and from the people that weren't able to get out and shop for some of their painting needs during January and February.
And I think we talked about the automotive refinish business lot of accidents here in the first quarter that lot of those didn't get repaired.
So those are two examples both on the architectural side and the automotive refinish side where we think over the next couple of quarters it should get some help here from some of this demand.
Thanks.
Thanks Bob.
Alright our next question comes from the line of Kevin Hocevar from Northcoast Research.
Hey good afternoon everybody.
I was wondering if you could give us an update on the level of success you had and the price increases you had at the Paint Stores in the U.S.
and if you expect that to spill over in any other channels? We were able to capture a low single-digit increase price increase in the Paint Stores during the first quarter.
Okay.
Have those and carry through for the remainder of 2014.
Okay.
And then just another quick one when you parsed out the pieces in the performance of this coating segment could you give us an idea of how much the architectural EMEA business margins improved in the quarter? Hey Kevin this is Vince.
That was the business as Frank mentioned earlier that had the most leverage potential.
Volumes were up 5% and the business sales last year were separate segments.
So you can easily do the math 5% volume increase and again I would tell that as we said coming into this year we expected incrementals somewhere between 30% to 50% and again that was the one business we certainly year marked is having highest potential given the largest drop in volume over the last couple of years.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Kevin.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas from JP Morgan.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
What was cash flow from operations in the quarter?  Cash flow from ops in the quarter I think Jeff give me one second I will find it.
You could ask if you’ve another question Jeff.
Sure.
On a pro forma basis the Akzo both the acquired Akzo sales in the United States grow versus what they were when they were run by Akzo in the first quarter of last year?  Jeff they were very comparable with last year slightly ahead but very comparable.
We shuttered about 100 stores as part of the synergy capture.
And into the cost reduction that you are doing there since the sales aren’t growing very fast what’s left.
I mean what is the cost that will come out for you to hit your synergy targets? Are there more plants to close or how do you conceptualize that?  Well we still have -- we are working through the operations and supply chain portion some of those changes take quite sometime as we are moving production obtained around the different plants different distribution centers we still have back office opportunities that we are working through as we integrate the two organizations those would be two of the bigger buckets left.
And now that we will annualize the Akzo business what’s the normalized SG&amp;A growth going forward? Is it a couple of percent or is it [cashed] in that? Looking for the company in total? Yes.
We should be I mean if you look at the run rate where we are today we will be going up from our current run rate in the first quarter.
We should be continuing a downward trend gradual downward trend in terms of SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue.
All right okay.
And you asked the cash flow the cash and I want to make sure you hit the right terminology here you’ll see the Q coming out in very near future obviously.
But cash from operating activities from continuing operations a $130 million of course that one and then you have some from [discops] and continuing ops about $160 million that’s before CapEx obviously.
And we’ll spend between $500 million to $600 million this year in CapEx probably ramping up a little bit more (inaudible) a little less earlier in the year.
And then lastly you bought back about $200 million from stock this quarter how did you pick that number why wasn’t it zero or $500 million where did $200 million come from? We’ve said that we will continue to have share purchase the integral part of our capital cash deployment strategy.
Obviously we look at the entire landscape between dividends organic CapEx share repurchase and acquisition activity we get a little bit of acquisition in the first quarter [high-temp] coatings that was announced a couple other very small ones that we announced.
And we had a remaining offer on our existing share repurchase authorization when we close the year and that was enough that we felt prudent about for the quarter.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you Jeff.
All right then.
We have one more question coming from line of Rich O'Reilly from Revere Associates.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Thank you all.
Jeff beat me to the question about Akzo.
Okay thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
At this time we have no further questions and I would now like to turn the call back over to Vince Morales for closing remarks.
Okay.
And I’d like to thank everybody for their time and interest in PPG today.
If there are further questions please contact me in the Investor Relations section.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen conclude today’s conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
And you may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2014 PPG Industries’ Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jackie and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
And following the prepared remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to Mr.
Vince Morales.
Please proceed.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Jackie and good afternoon everyone.
Once again this is Vince Morales Vice President of Investor Relations.
We appreciate your continued interest in PPG Industries and welcome you to this teleconference to review PPG’s second quarter 2014 financial results.
Joining me on the call today is Chuck Bunch PPG’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Michael McGarry PPG’s Chief Operating Officer; and Frank Sklarsky PPG’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our comments relate to the financial information released on Thursday July 17 2014.
I will remind everyone that we posted detailed commentary and accompanying presentation slides on our Investor Center at our website ppg.com.
The slides are also available on the webcast site for this call and provide additional support to the opening remarks Chuck will make momentarily.
Following Chuck’s perspective on the company’s results for the quarter we will move to the Q&amp;A session.
Both the prepared commentary discussion and Q&amp;A on this call may contain forward-looking statements reflecting the company’s current view of future events and their potential effect on PPG’s operating and financial performance.
These statements involve uncertainties and risks which may cause actual results to differ.
The company is under no obligation to provide subsequent updates to these forward-looking statements.
Today’s presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The company has provided in the presentation appendix reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
For additional information please refer to PPG’s filings with the SEC.
And now let me introduce PPG’s Chairman and CEO Chuck Bunch.
Thank you Vince and welcome everyone.
Today we reported record second quarter 2014 financial results from continuing operations including all-time quarterly adjusted earnings per diluted share of $2.83 and record quarterly sales of $4.1 billion.
The benefits of our new business portfolio are measurable as our adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations increased 24% this quarter with an average quarterly increase the past six quarters of more than 30%.
We achieved these record results due to our global reach as most major regional economies continue to expand.
Our sales growth was 5% including volume growth of 3% which was consistent across each major region.
In the U.S.
and Canada we continued to see moderate demand increases in most of the end use markets we supply.
The overall pace of growth was modest early in the quarter but accelerated in June.
Certain PPG businesses continue to easily outpace the regional economic growth rate such as our automotive OEM business which grew high single-digit percentages.
Our earnings in this region grew 12% reflecting our increased sales coupled with additional synergies from our prior year architectural coatings acquisition.
In Europe the demand recovery continued and broadened in terms of its PPG impact as more of our businesses achieved volume improvements.
The year-over-year pace of sales improvement was slightly lower than the first quarter of 2014 but that was due to the strengthening of the prior year comparison period.
We delivered 28% earnings improvement in Europe.
We continue to realize excellent earnings contributions from the gradual regional economic improvement illustrating our earnings leverage driven by our previous aggressive cost reduction actions.
Europe represents about one-third of our total sales and we expect this earnings leverage to continue.
In Asia and Latin America combined earnings grew 14%.
In Asia we achieved higher volumes driven by increased automotive OEM and general industrial demand in China and India.
Overall Latin American volumes declined slightly with continuing growth in Mexico offset by weakness in South America primarily Brazil.
In addition to our continued strong operating performance our strategic actions and ongoing cash deployment were also notable factors in our earnings growth.
As I mentioned earlier we achieved additional acquisition related cost synergies from last year’s North American architectural coatings acquisition.
And on a run rate basis we have delivered about 75% of the targeted $200 million synergy target in just 15 months.
These include administrative procurement related and operational cost savings plus the earnings benefit from closing about 100 redundant or underperforming company-owned stores in the second half of 2013.
We expect the synergy capture to be nearly complete by year end on a run rate basis which keeps us ahead of the schedule.
We have also completed several bolt-on acquisitions this year including Canal Supplies Painter’s Supply Masterwork and Homax.
In aggregate these acquisitions are expected to add about $75 million in annual sales.
But most noteworthy on June 30 we announced an agreement to acquire Comex a leading Latin American architectural and industrial coatings company and one of the highest quality coatings businesses in the world.
Let me give you a brief update on the activities that have occurred in just a few weeks following the signing of the acquisition agreement.
We held a pre-filing meeting and then submitted a formal filing with the Mexican Competition Commission requesting approval of the transaction.
As is customary in transactions of this nature the commission issued a hold order indicating that the transaction needs to remain open pending completion of their review.
We continued to anticipate that the commission will complete its work in order for the acquisition to close in four to six months.
We are very excited about the value this transaction will bring to PPG and we are looking forward to working with Comex’s customers and employees.
With regard to other cash deployment actions we repurchased $100 million or about 500 000 shares of PBG stock in the quarter.
We halted share repurchases in the middle of the quarter due to the Comex acquisition negotiations which concluded by quarter end.
We ended the quarter with $2.9 billion of cash and short-term investments and we remain highly focused on additional cash deployment for earnings accretive opportunities.
We are still targeting earnings accretive cash deployment of $3 billion to $4 billion in 2014 and 2015 combined.
Our acquisition pipeline remains active and we expect to complete additional share repurchases in the second half of 2014.
Looking ahead we anticipate moderate global expansion and we remain well positioned geographically and with lower structural costs to deliver excellent earnings performance from the increased global demand.
In addition we still have a variety of PPG specific earnings levers remaining.
These include additional use of our strong balance sheet and cash position and further demand recovery in some of our largest regions such as Europe and end use markets such as U.S.
commercial construction where demand levels remain well below pre-recession levels.
In summary we have again delivered record financial performance driven by benefits from our strategic initiatives cash deployment new PPG technologies and continued aggressive management of our businesses.
And we remain optimistic regarding continued growth for PPG.
Once again we appreciate your interest in PPG.
And this concludes our prepared remarks.
Now operator would you please open the line for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from the line of David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Thank you Chuck.
Chuck you mentioned June picking up in the quarter can you discuss what you think drove that pickup? Was it just normal seasonal activity? And what that has led to in July trends in terms of business volume? Well as you know the first quarter especially here in North America was weak due to the harsh winter.
We came into April I think still without the momentum that we had seen last year in some of our major businesses and construction-related businesses in particular.
You had later Easter you had fewer selling days earlier in the month and I think as we saw the weather improve over all of the geographies here in North America.
And I think in Europe we had what I would call regular weather patterns so that we felt that by the second half of the second quarter so the last month in particular we saw lot of momentum building especially in the construction markets but you saw it also in the automotive sales and we had a number of new programs that were started in the back half of the second quarter.
So I would say that there were some seasonal or weather-related events but also I think some of PPG’s programs were ticking in as the quarter progressed.
Chuck on the same bent how would you characterize this U.S.
spring and ongoing summer paint season versus prior years or even expectations? Well let me – I am going to ask Michael McGarry our newly named Chief Operating Officer to respond.
Michael has had responsibility for our architectural businesses globally.
Michael? Yes.
David I would say that this year is better than last year and then it’s continuing to trend up.
We had good performance in our stores that have been opened for more than one year.
And we saw continued – actually in Canada we had a nice recovery in Canada as well despite the fact that Canada by and large is a very challenging market.
So I’d say overall it’s trending upward.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Dave.
And your next question comes from the line of Don Carson with Susquehanna Financial.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Chuck your OEM auto growth continues to significantly outpace the market.
I am just wondering what’s driving that is that new products I mean you mentioned one of the things helping business overall is just your customers adopting your new technologies? And sort of along those lines do you have any sort of innovation or freshness index in terms of percentage of sales coming from new products both current and where you would like it to go? Yes.
As we have discussed before our automotive OEM business has a lot of momentum.
Two of the key drivers have been on the technology side both our new generation-seven electrodeposition coatings and we are getting an adoption rate that is accelerating on a global basis.
And as the industry has continued to globalize we are seeing adoption rates faster at our customers from new technology.
The other new technology for OEM automotive coatings is the new B1:B2 PPG compact process.
We are also getting very good success rates as this technology moves into brand new of automotive assembly plants.
I think what we have seen over the last few years we were introducing the technology but it really paid off best in brand new assembly plants where you could design the coatings systems the ovens the electrodeposition coatings around this new technology.
So we have seen an acceleration of the adoption of those two technologies B1:B2 Compact Process or the top coat systems.
So I would say that has caused some of the acceleration in our volume growth for PPG.
We are also very well positioned with some of the companies that have been growing fastest on a global basis.
So if you look at our new products and we are trying to have over 30% new products on a five year rolling basis and we are certainly ahead of that phase in the automotive OEM business.
Okay.
And then just as a follow-up on the portfolio side you seem to have a major announcement every quarter I guess the remaining business that doesn’t fit is the glass business and I am just wondering what the future of that business in the PPG portfolio is is it something you want to get the returns up before you divest it or is it something you would consider keeping? At this point we have considered those businesses less core for PPG but still strategically important.
We think that we have more to do in those businesses.
We have continued to invest in them.
We think there are good opportunities with the market recoveries and some of the regional growth to improve the performance.
And as you have noted we have been quite busy with our portfolio actions in last year and this year commodity chemicals the transitions optical business these big acquisitions.
So we are aware of our performance in that business and the opportunities to improve and at this point we have no further news to report.
Thank you.
Thanks Don.
And your next question comes from the line of Duffy Fischer with Barclays.
Please proceed.
The refinish business you had talked about the rough winter should lead to pickup in summer one are we seeing that uptick in refinish and two what’s happened with market share in refinish as there has been a little bit of turnover in one of your big competitors changing and stuff like that where do we stand with market share in refinish? Well I would say Duffy that first of all we are seeing volume improvement in refinish here in North America as we come out of the winter.
And we have also seen a modest pickup in Europe in our refinish business and the business in Asia-Pacific also continues to grow.
So I think we are pleased to see continued growth top line growth on the refinish side.
Here in the North America or even globally with some of the – we have seen the competitors remain fairly similar in terms of the players competing in the market.
We do not have however with this business let’s say is up to – as up-to-date volume and share information.
It usually takes us a little longer in this segment because the publicly available data is not always correct.
I would say that we have seen somewhat of a stable share situation from our perspective.
There is movement within the market between the large multi-shop operators and some of the smaller ones.
So we are seeing some consolidation there in terms of the Bodyshop network.
So there are continuing consolidation trends globally in the downstream portion of the refinish or automotive collision markets.
But I would say it’s too early to really say that there have been any significant share shifts regionally or globally.
I think Duffy the only thing I would add to what Chuck said this is Frank is that in Asia-Pacific China specifically China is going to produce something like 23 million units this year.
And as they produce more the car park in China will continue to grow pretty substantial and we will continue to benefit from that.
So were – the Asia or the China growth is probably a little bit higher than the overall global growth for us and we already have a significant position market position in China.
So we will benefit from that sector trend going forward with that car park growth.
Great.
And then second question probably for Frank when we anniversary the shutdown of those 100 stores on the combination between new and the acquired business should we think about a financial impact when we anniversary that? Do we get a pick up or kind of a reduction in cost at that point or will that be pretty smooth and unnoticeable? It’s not going to be a huge financial impact.
Those were done pretty much in the more so in the second half of 2013 and so we will lap that by the end of this year.
The impact you will see is that overall year-over-year compares on sales will improve because those stores would have been lower performing than the legacy stores but no major financial impact.
Great thanks fellows.
And your next question comes from the line of John McNulty with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my questions.
So for the first one as far as the marine business goes it’s been struggling for a while it does seem like it’s leveling off at least on a sequential basis but based on kind of your knowledge of the order books that are out there I guess when should we be expecting the final turn in that business where we actually start to see good positive year-over-year growth? John I would say that here in the second quarter we had still modestly negative volumes in protective and marine.
The marine business notably in China and Korea has been continuing to weaken but at improving trends let’s call it.
And if you look at new order bookings for us we are now we think we have turned a corner in terms of volume growth in the business trending with this order book improvement.
So I would say by the end of this year and certainly the first quarter of next year you are going to see these new bookings showing up on our sales top line for the business.
Great thanks.
And then as a follow up in the performance business certainly the margins continue to push higher which is impressive at these levels.
I guess my question is with the launch that you have had around some of the new re-branding that you are doing both in the stores and in the architectural business and even outside the stores of the big boxes.
Can you walk us through how to think about what the incremental costs were there that might have been one-time that may have even held back the margins a little bit despite what looked like pretty good ones? Yes.
John this is Michael.
I would say that from the cost side we probably not want to get into that but the way to think about it going forward is that we continue to get our cost structure lower the stores are gone.
We have consolidated sales into the higher performing stores.
Chuck talked earlier about the run rate of the synergies were going north of where we were and we are going to be probably 90% of the $200 million number we gave you by the end of the year.
So I would tell you that everything is moving in the right direction.
Great thanks very much for the color.
And your next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Congratulations Michael on the promotion.
Just to follow up on that did you – can you update us on where the margins are on the Akzo North American business? I think you guys had indicated those they were mid single-digits in Q1 where do we stand now and how does that trajectory look for the balance of the year? Yes.
We were low double-digits in the second quarter.
And obviously our goal is to continue to move that north Frank.
So we feel pretty good about it.
When we took it over it was basically a breakeven business at best so a significant improvement.
The team has done an outstanding job of moving that north.
It sounds like that’s ahead of expectations even your expectations if it’s… I don’t know you have to ask Chuck about that.
And you mentioned earlier in terms of share buyback that you stopped halfway through the quarter after doing $100 million because you knew you had the Comex negotiations going on but that you are going to restart that here as we progress.
Is the way for us to think about that is our run-rate kind of quarterly double that number absent another large transaction that might be on the horizon how should we think about the pace of the buybacks for the balance of the year? Yes.
I mean I think this is Frank while we don’t get too specific on when exactly we will be in the market Q1 we did 200 as you know we did 100 in Q2.
I think it’s safe to assume that we have always said it will be part of our capital allocation strategy for the back half including share repurchase.
So we will be back in the market in the second half for some amount.
Again it’s always going to depend on the economic conditions always going to depend on acquisition activity.
We still do look at the pipeline of acquisitions and that is our preferred route to grow the top line organically inorganically but we will be definitely doing some share repurchases in the back half.
Alright great.
And then lastly you mentioned that the maintenance costs were heavy in the first half of 2014 care to quantify that and what sort of a tailwind will that be for the balance of this year? Hey Frank this is Vince.
You are talking I think about our glass segment we have some planned maintenance and repair work coming in to the year as we communicated in the fourth quarter.
In total for the first half it was about $17 million of year-over-year delta in terms of costs.
For the back half of the year we expect the year-over-year delta to be negligible.
Terrific.
Thanks so much.
Thanks.
And your next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon.
Could you comment on your expectations for titanium dioxide acrylic and other raw material costs in the back half of the year versus the first half of 2014? Kevin I would say that we are – we look at the trends as very flat right now.
So for TiO2 we didn’t see much movement between the first and second quarter and we are really not anticipating for TiO2 any movements up.
For some of our emulsions we are seeing also similar trends of little to know inflation.
There is some noise around vinyl acetate monomer but at this point I would say that they are not strong.
So as we have commented earlier low single-digit kind of inflationary pressure on raw materials and that would include natural gas that is up from last year although stable right now.
We have a few other inflationary costs out there such as transportation but right now we see trends in the second half for raw materials and other costs low single-digits.
Okay great.
And then the second question has to do with your store count you mentioned the rationalization last year I think back in May you indicated a medium-term plan to add 180 to 220 stores through 2016.
So early days versus that timeframe but I think you have made a number of bolt-on acquisitions that seem to be bringing stores with them.
So perhaps you could update us on where you might be this year in terms of organic and acquired stores? Yes Kevin this is Michael.
So we picked up 10 stores in the Connecticut area 13 stores here in the Pittsburg area.
We are on a run rate to add probably in the range of 22 stores in the U.S.
and about 17 stores in Canada.
And so when you look at the number we gave you we are certainly thinking that that’s the minimum that we are looking at over that period of time.
So just to follow up Mike you think you maybe able to exceed the 45 goal that you had for this year given 39 are in the books? I think that’s going to be probably where we finish.
Okay thank you very much.
Thanks Kevin.
And your next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Baird.
Please proceed.
Hey guys.
Good afternoon.
First off can you just sort of update us with your thoughts on commercial construction in the U.S.? Your competitor that reported this morning was quite bullish on the trend line there do you share that same enthusiasm? We have been seeing an improving trend as we went through the second quarter.
We didn’t see as much in the first quarter.
And as we look at a couple of our businesses the touch commercial construction including the flat glass business that really reported in the second quarter the best volumes that they have seen for their business since 2007 and there are a commercial construction business although they also saw some improvement on the residential side.
I would say overall in our other businesses that touch commercial construction here we are seeing good improvement but it was – it came later in the second quarter.
But we are seeing very positive trend so we are optimistic that these will continue in the second half of the year.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then on architectural EMEA how did the volumes come in relative to your initial expectations for the quarter.
And have you also seen any improvement in Eastern Europe? This is Michael again.
Yes I would tell you that we had very nice improvements.
The areas that were up were the UK Benelux.
You had all of the Eastern Europe was up significantly.
This is a nice trend for us and overall we are – we would say the only area that is still under pressure I would call it flattish is France.
Okay thanks so much.
And your next question comes from the line of Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Thanks very much and congrats Michael.
Thank you Bob.
I wanted to ask maybe some granular data around the U.S.
architectural market I think you mentioned your big box revenues were up mid-single your stores were up better than that and your dealer network – or independent network worse than that is should I read something about the variation in pricing power across those channels or any shift in DIY versus contractor trends what would you describe the difference between the channels to? I think the difference Bob really goes to the way they go to market.
So the DIY guys show up in the home centers and I would tell you that we had good home center numbers.
We also had some new products that we rolled out with Ralph Lauren with the Glidden Professional.
So that was the positive.
The dealers obviously are working hard in their own segment so they are a little more challenged in the contract end market.
So I don’t think there were any surprises in there.
And you had cited an outlook of modest U.S.
growth your big competitor in Cleveland certainly seemed a little bit more enthusiastic so might you give me a definition of modest? I would say 5% plus is the areas that we are looking at.
Got it and the last one Chuck hallmark of the paint industry is its stability and I noticed on the monthly volume trends you gave April was up 3 May was flat June was up 7 that doesn’t really speak to stability is that atypical or is it just normally we see a quarterly number and we don’t know that there’s quite as much month-to-month volatility in year-on-year trends? Well we track these things on a daily and weekly basis too.
I would say that typically you don’t see that much variability around these normally seasonal trends.
But I would say this year especially here in North America the season just started coming a little later than usual.
And although we said that the first quarter was notably weaker because of the weather we still saw that continuing.
We have a bigger share now up in Canada which had some of these same seasonal trends.
So we were encouraged because we came into the year saying hey the overall construction indexes are going to get better we have seen the growth improving over the last couple of years.
We didn’t get it in the first four months.
May was we thought going to be a little better than it turned out to be.
We didn’t have as many ship days.
But I think as we have worked through some of the inventory by the time they started to reorder in June we saw some good uptick.
So normally less variability but we think this is the start of the good seasonal trend now for the rest of the season.
Great thanks for the help.
And your next question comes from the line of John Roberts with UBS.
Please proceed.
Thanks for taking my call.
Hi John.
I’m looking at Slide 7 and I really like the format of that presentation of the adjusted earnings per share trend.
The last four the right-most four orange boxes are all roughly similar in size.
And you have mentioned you are going to start to anniversary the easy comps on Akzo and if comps get a little bit more challenging on auto OEM.
So should we think of – I know you don’t give specific guidance but we should maybe think about the orange boxes maybe back in the first half of 2013 is kind of where we will start seeing comps level off to? John this is Vince.
As you know our portfolio is a bunch of different businesses and I certainly agree with your comments that we will start to anniversary some of the acquisition synergies.
But if you remember last year first half Europe was very week.
We still have a lot of recovery growth left in Europe in our opinion.
We still – we are battling all of last year as we pointed out earlier tough marine market and a sluggish commercial construction market and we still have those tailwinds coming.
And so there is still I think – and we still have cash deployment as another avenue as we get later in this year certainly as four to six months from now when we close Comex.
So I still think there is a lot of opportunities to continue this trend up to some degree.
Good answer.
And then on Slide 11 the acquisition you said the acquisitions add $75 million in sales but only $24 million has been spent on acquisitions do we have still some cash outflow to go with those additional smaller ones you did recently? Yes.
There is the Homax one closed just after the beginning of the third quarter.
So there will be more money that will have gone out at that time at which for the sales which are included in that $75 million.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
And your next question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Sure.
Thanks very much.
I am just looking at the Slide 5 here with the sequential volume trends do you think the sequential growth rate decelerating in Europe from 4% to 3% is that just the function of the comps being easier in the prior quarter or were you not – were you surprised that you didn’t see sort of a pickup? The weakest quarter last year for Europe was the first quarter so it wasn’t easier comp.
So we didn’t see any deceleration.
It’s still modest growth recovery but we are not concerned that the trend is going in wrong way.
Okay.
And then just how is it looking going in to 3Q so far? In Europe Vincent? Yes.
We said in our prepared remarks and we see that trend it’s very early obviously in the quarter but we actually have volume growth in almost every business in Q2.
And that wasn’t the case in 1Q.
So again we think the general recovery again still modest in early innings but we do think it’s broadening.
Alright.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Please proceed.
Hi this is Dan Juster on for P.J.
this afternoon.
Hi Dan.
So on packaging coatings it seems like your European volumes have been declining for three or four consecutive quarters now even as you just mentioned that sort of other volume in the region is starting to improve so can you just walk us through some of the factors that are impacting that particular business.
And I think comps get better in the second half so should we expect to see some sort of the stabilization later this year? The packaging coatings business there are several factors at work especially in the European market.
It has been slower season in Europe.
You also have technology transition going to these BPA free coatings.
So there has been some whole holding back of volumes waiting for some of these technology changes.
But as I mentioned in my previous quarterly remarks we have seen heightened competitive activity especially positioning before some of these technology changes.
So you are I think also seeing the impact of that in Europe on the overall marketplace.
Thank you.
And then quickly on back to the U.S.
architectural market you talked about some new products that were launched Ralph Lauren Olympic ELITE any channel fill benefit in the quarter that you can point to? Not significant.
This is Vince.
We had only a partial quarter of those products.
The products are being set throughout the quarter so we didn’t have a full benefit in the quarter.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Good afternoon and thanks for taking my question.
On Europe the profit improvement is 28% or so it seems pretty remarkable given volumes I think in that geography were only up 3% so would you walk us through what were the other contributors to profit growth i.e.
price currency and then if you are still tracking those 35% to 40% incremental margins in that region? Yes.
And that last comment of yours really nails it because as we had said previously we expected based on the cost reduction actions all the rationalization that was taking place that we would have expected 30% to 40% incremental to the bottom line form the additional volume and we are seeing accretion at the high end of that range.
And its volume on the fact that we don’t have much incremental fixed costs on either administrative side nor the capacity side because we are still obviously significantly below peak volume.
So there is additional – plenty of additional capacity utilization that we can take up as the volumes accrete.
Modest – very modest pricing environment a little bit of help from currency on the euro on a year-over-year basis as you know so that helped a little bit.
But volume in the basically mid-single digits range.
And some of the business and as Vince said are becoming more broad based is what really drove that utilization.
So we are seeing that 40% range of the accretion.
Got it.
Then on I know you have mentioned number of times back when you announced the Comex deal and obviously in this quarterly comments the quality of the assets are there assets out there geographically that you can that might be of a comparable quality that you could be interested in? Nils this is Vince.
We don’t particularly talk about any specific targets.
We do think coatings pace is as our portfolio changes have occurred over the last decade indicate remains a very very good space.
There are small medium and in some cases large competitors out there potential targets for us.
So yes I think we expect to continue to consolidate space over the next couple of years.
And one of the benefits of the coatings industry is the amount of free cash flow we have.
And again we would use that again for quite some time to grow inorganically.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just one more if I may.
It seems like recently you have done a number of independent distributors in the U.S.
versus company-owned stores is there a preference for independent distributors as you look to expand in the U.S.
North America architectural and what might that be? Nil this is Michael.
I would tell you that the independent distribution we bought really boiled down the fact that they had no succession plans.
And they came to us and asked us to facilitate their long-term plans and we took advantage of that.
Obviously we favour our own stores if they were a chance but we love the dealer market as well so we participate in both of them.
Thanks so much.
Thanks Nils.
And your next question comes from the line of Dmitry Silversteyn with Longbow Research.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon guys.
A lot of the questions have been answered but I just want to follow-up on the share repurchases I think that – was it two weeks ago when you had the conference call on the Comex announcement you talked about suspending share repurchases until the deal closes but now you are talking about being back in the market in the second half of this year so did you get a different ruling or a premium from your counsel or was it just a sort of internal change of direction? No we – I think we have been pretty consistent in our commentary that it was obviously appropriate for us to suspend the share repurchases when we were in discussions with earnest with Comex during the second quarter so that’s why we did the $100 million.
And consistent with all of our counsel and the guidance we gave a couple of weeks ago we are free to be back in the market as long as we are not in position of any material non-public information.
And so that’s why we are say as we did at that time that we could be back in the market in the second half.
Okay alright.
Thank you for that clarification.
You have been touching base as a follow-up on your international businesses outside of North America and EMEA in Asian architectural business and industrial business you talked about seeing a little bit of pickup in the industrial side can you talk about the environment in the architectural side of the business both in terms of China and Australia and other parts of Asia.
And then on Latin America this morning your Cleveland based competitor was pretty pessimistic about at least 2014 results in that region given the economics and the foreign exchange issues sort of what are you seeing and kind of how do you view that market for the balance of this year and into next year? Dmitry this is Michael.
If you look at China our market was up low-double digits earnings were up as well.
Australia we were up mid-single digits and earnings were up.
In Brazil it was not a good market but our earnings were up as well as we took advantage of the cost the ability to get cost out.
So in all the architectural segments around the world we had improved performance.
Okay.
So you had double-digit growth in China in architectural paints? Yes.
That’s correct.
Okay great.
And that was quite a reversal from I think you had a little bit of a loss in volumes even as late as the first quarter so is something that’s changed there in the market or in how you go to market sort of…? In China we have had continuous upward trend.
And in Australia we have also been growing there as well.
Okay.
So the overall Asian paints business being down last quarter in volumes I assume that was areas outside of China that were weak or how do I? Dmitry this is Vince that was marine impact.
Okay.
I thought that maybe we were talking about just performance coatings and architectural coatings last time as well but maybe I am wrong.
Alright thank you.
The marine is in performance coatings segment.
And your next question comes from the line of James Sheehan with SunTrust.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Thank you for taking my question.
In performance coatings you referenced some cost inflation and you have got some price increases out there to offset that when do you anticipate being fully caught up on the cost inflation that you referenced? Yes.
James this is Vince.
We enacted pricing in the first quarter in anticipation of what we were seeing in transportation markets somewhat on the weak retail wage side.
We are complete in terms of cost versus price at this point.
And so we don’t expect much more inflation more than we have today in those two buckets.
And we have modest targeted pricing but not material for the segment overall in the back half of the year.
Alright.
Thanks a lot Vince.
Thanks James.
And your next question comes from the line of Arun Viswanathan with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Hope you are doing well.
Yes thanks.
I guess the first question was just on aerospace it’s been a pretty decent market for you guys for a little while what’s your outlook going forward and do you think you can keep up mid to high-single digit growth rates there? We are still quite optimistic about the aerospace market.
If you look at the commercial mainframe OEM builds from Boeing and Airbus they are quite strong with good backlogs.
We are seeing modest pickup in business aviation and the aftermarket especially with the airline profitability is also improving.
So we continue to see similar trends.
Military has been somewhat muted but overall we are not seeing a trend a change in the trends that we have experienced and we are quite optimistic that the market is going to continue to be – to perform well.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then another question kind of higher level I mean historically your earnings and your top line growth was very tied to global IP but with all the portfolio moves it seems like that’s come down a little bit so if we do see a material pickup in global IP over the next couple of years would you think to see a similar benefit from it as you did in the past or you think they would be less so? No I think we still have – we have obviously over the past couple of years expanded or exploded to the U.S.
commercial construction market residential construction market.
But we still have a close link to global IP so I think the relationship you mentioned still exist.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Eugene Fedotoff with KeyBanc.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just have a follow up on packaging coatings can you talk about volume trends that you are seeing outside of Europe and whether you saw a pick-up in demand before or during World Cup? The volume trends here in North America were slightly positive but modest.
The Asia continues to be a growth market for packaging coatings and that continued.
We didn’t see a noticeable change in the industry for the World Cup.
And you had a lot of other trends going on in South America at the time from volumes currencies and the like.
So we did not see a specific change in demand for the industry due to the World Cup.
Thanks for that color.
And also you mentioned the recovery in general industrial coatings can you talk a little bit more in details about the specific markets end markets that are leading that recovery? Well for our industrial coatings business the strongest market globally has been automotive parts.
We have seen good growth in the global automotive industry as we have indicated but our business has continued to perform well there.
Coil and extrusion markets again they are tied more to construction.
We have seen some growth there as well.
Heavy duty equipment in the developed regions was a positive story although in the developing regions in Asia a little less so.
Consumer electronics what I would call mixed return to growth overall but I would say not at some of the growth trends that we have seen earlier.
So those would be a few of the markets that we have seen improving.
Appliance was also better in all the regions geographically.
Great thanks.
And just a last question on Comex do you think – and I am sorry if I missed that do you think there is a potential upside to the 3% 4% synergies that you initially identified? We just announced the deal a couple of weeks ago Eugene.
So when I think we are still going with our original financial projections.
Thanks a lot.
And your next question comes from the line of Robert Walker with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Alright thank you.
On auto OEM how much of your above market growth can you attribute to new capacity wins versus customer retrofits or other items just wondering kind of how vulnerable the growth rates could be if auto capacity growth slowed? Could you repeat the question again? Alright yes.
The above market growth you are seeing in auto OEM how much of that is attributed to winning higher share of new auto facilities versus kind of de-captivating existing facilities for other customers having a customer retrofitted of a plant? Well I would say that the – thinking of one of the biggest trends here recently in the global industry has been the amount of new assembly plants.
So typically those are the best opportunities to win new business is when a plant has is just commissioning and I would say that we feel that we are winning our share – more than our share as these new plants get commissioned because it’s an opportunity to introduce new technologies.
You see less share shift on let’s say the facilities that have been in existence for a while if they are performing well.
So I would say that there will still be new automotive assembly plants starting up over the next couple of years.
You have seen a number of them in China Mexico.
You have seen a number of new assembly plants announced.
So I would say the trend is still encouraging there.
And I don’t think that all these plants and some of them that were winning business have yet ramped up to full capacity.
So I think there is an opportunity for more growth from some of these new facilities but those will be the two countries that we see the most growth in in terms of new construction.
Alright thank you.
And then a question for Frank in terms of free cash flow generation do you expect a similar pattern to previous years and kind of overall what kind of free cash flow to net income ratio should we expect this year? Well without getting into too much specific on the percentage we do expect a similar pattern to prior years where things do pickup in the back half.
We are spending a little bit more in CapEx this year but all that CapEx is very very accretive in terms of capacity expansion that we expect to get a very quick return on making good progress on working capital as we go through the year.
So similar pattern and it’s always going to be kind of a high double-digit conversion ratio of cash flow to net income.
So it’s safe to assume that.
So do you mean 90% plus or? It’s going to depend on the quarter and on the month but overall it will be in the certainly more than 80% conversion ratio for the year.
Okay thank you.
Thanks Rob.
And your next question comes from the line of Richard O’Reilly with Revere and Associates.
Please proceed.
Okay thank you.
Good afternoon guys.
I also wanted to ask about the Comex synergy target and I guess why only a 3% to 4% not that there is upside to that but it just seems like a low number low percentage.
Can you explain is it because you don’t have a footprint there there is no corporate savings? Rich if you go back to the June 30 call we held this is an asset that from a geographic perspective is tremendously complementary to us but we have no meaningful architectural presence in Mexico.
That limits in a certain degree some of the operational synergies we would get out of the transaction.
So this is more of a plug and play type transaction as opposed to our prior acquisition last year where we had tremendous overlap both administratively and operationally.
So I think – and this is a high-quality asset because it’s well run as well.
So I think those two factors are the predominant reasons why you are seeing the synergy target we put out there which is still a nice synergy target by the way.
And second question a quick question a math question what the business unit you call now specialty coatings and materials the (indiscernible) and optical materials are those volumes within that aggregate coatings volume of 3% are they within that slide there or does that slide exclude that? It would include the overall coatings volume improvement would include specialty coatings and materials you could say the specialty coatings and materials probably has a growth rate above that smaller business smaller component in the total but it is in the number.
Okay fine.
Okay.
So it’s basically the two coating segments excluding the glass segment? That’s correct Rich.
Yes specialty coatings and materials is in the industrial coating segment.
And it’s now in the industrial okay good.
Thanks a lot for that.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes our question-and-answer session.
And with that I would like to turn the conference back to Mr.
Vince Morales.
Please proceed.
Investor Relations</strong> I just want to get in and thank everybody for their time and interest in PPG.
As is customary I will be available today tomorrow and next week for any follow-up questions you may have.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 PPG Industries Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jenada and I will be your operator for today.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Vince Morales.
Please proceed.
Thank you Jenada and good afternoon everybody.
Again this is Vince Morales Vice President of Investor Relations for PPG industries.
We appreciate your interest and welcome you to teleconference to review our third quarter 2014 financial results.
Joining me on the call today from PPG is Chuck Bunch PPG Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Michael McGarry Chief Operating Officer and Frank Sklarsky Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our comments relate to the financial information released on Thursday October 16 2014.
I will remind everyone that we posted commentary and accompanying presentation slides on our Investor Center at ppg.com.
These slides are also available on the webcast site for this call and provide additional support to the opening remarks Chuck will make shortly.
Following Chuck's perspective on the company's results for the quarter we will move directly to a Q&amp;A session.
Both the prepared commentary and discussion during this call may contain forward-looking statements reflecting the company's current view of future events and their potential effect on PPG's operating and financial performance.
These statements involve uncertainties and risks which may cause actual results to differ.
The company is under no obligation to provide subsequent updates to these forward-looking statements.
This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The company has provided in the appendix of the presentation materials which again are available on the website reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
For additional information please refer to our filings with the SEC.
Now let me introduce PPG Chairman and CEO Chuck Bunch.
Thank you Vince and welcome everyone.
Today we reported third quarter 2014 financial results including record third quarter adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of $2.82 and record third quarter sales from continuing operations of $3.94 billion.
Our sales improved 4% a rate of growth similar to the second quarter.
Our higher sales were primarily due to higher volumes which grew 3% in the quarter in comparison to strengthening prior-year results.
We achieved higher volumes in all major regions.
However the regional results remain uneven.
Year-over-year volume growth was highest in North America and Asia both about 4% as volume gains accelerated in both regions versus previous quarters.
European volumes advanced slightly less than 1%.
We continue to benefit from customer adoption of our leading technologies our higher sales were driven by volume growth in aerospace automotive OEM coatings and automotive refinish where the growth rate this quarter matched or exceeded the prior quarter's results.
Our adjusted earnings per diluted share of $2.82 improved 22% versus the prior year.
We once again achieved record earnings in each major region.
Our European earnings were up 17% and North America and emerging regions advanced 10%.
The earnings increase was a result of the improvement in sales along with an improved business mix.
In addition we’ve maintained our ongoing cost discipline in all of our businesses.
Earnings per share growth also benefited from cash used for acquisitions including savings stemming from achievement of additional acquisition-related synergies.
Cash deployed on share repurchases was also a contributing factor.
We repurchased $150 million or about 740 000 shares in the quarter and $450 million or about 2.4 million shares year-to-date.
In the quarter our average diluted shares outstanding were more than 3.5% lower versus the previous year's third quarter.
As I mentioned earlier the pace of demand varied by region.
In North America we benefited from continued moderate economic expansion.
Industrial activity remained solid including higher regional automotive OEM coatings aerospace and overall general industrial demand.
Volumes in our businesses serving these markets were up mid to high single-digit percentages.
Architectural Coatings sales were up low single-digits supported by higher U.S.
sales in our company-owned stores and national DIY retailers and were partly offset by modestly lower demand in Canada.
Also supporting the sales increase were signs of an initial modest recovery in non-residential or commercial construction which also was a factor in our improved flat glass sales during the quarter.
In addition to the higher sales the 10% regional earnings improvement included benefits from additional acquisition related cost synergies from last year's North American Architectural Coatings acquisition.
I have been pleased with our progress on this acquisition and we now expect to complete nearly all of the significant synergy actions by year-end more than one year ahead of schedule.
In Europe our results were mixed geographically within the region as well as by end use market.
Our sales grew about 2% including slight volume growth of less than 1% in comparison with improving prior year sales.
Currency translation was not a factor in the quarter as the three-month average euro exchange rate essentially matched the previous year.
The euro weakened versus the dollar late in the quarter and based on current rates we expect euro currency translation to have a larger impact in the fourth quarter.
In the region PPG continued to benefit from growth in the industrial and automotive markets coupled with improving aerospace demand.
Our Architectural Coatings volumes in the region were down slightly declining 1%.
We had solid architectural demand growth in the UK and Eastern Europe which was offset by modestly lower results in other countries including France where volumes were down low single-digit percentages and were consistent with results earlier in the year.
Also important with respect to Europe is that demand in the region was generally consistent throughout the month of September.
With regard to emerging regions our sales in Asia were up 5% including 4% volume growth.
Growth was broad-based spanning across nearly all PPG businesses in this region and was also led by industrial and automotive markets.
Additionally our Marine new build volumes were up very modestly as this industry begins to recover from several years of activity declines.
In Latin America which is our smallest region representing about 5% of our sales regional volumes grew low single-digit percentages aided by higher automotive demand but were offset by lower results in other businesses.
Strategically in the quarter we completed the sale of a North American flat glass manufacturing facility and our automotive glass equity affiliate sold one of its business lines with both divestiture transactions generating onetime gains.
We also continue to work on customary actions related to our pending acquisition of Comex.
Let me take a few moments to give you an update on the Comex acquisition activities that have occurred since we signed the acquisition agreement.
We submitted a formal filing with the Mexican Competition Commission requesting approval of the transaction within a few days of the acquisition announcement.
Over the past few months we have responded to customary formal and informal information requests from the Competition Commission.
Last week the Commission issued a time extension on their transaction review without this extension the Competition Commission would have been required to rule on the regulatory filing within the coming days.
This extension was anticipated and was included in our original projected four to six months’ timeline.
We continue to anticipate that the Commission will complete their review and that we will close the transaction in the fourth quarter as we previously expected.
Economic growth trends in Mexico remain very solid and we are looking forward to working with Comex's customers and employees.
Looking ahead while we are watchful of the pace of global economic expansion we remain confident in our ability to deliver continued solid earnings growth driven by the ongoing momentum we have established in the many key end use markets.
Additionally we are just now beginning to benefit from an initial recovery in several long cycle industries including North American commercial construction and marine new build activity in Asia which had previously detracted from our overall growth.
The fourth quarter is historically our slowest quarter seasonally and we anticipate normal seasonal trends will occur in our businesses this year.
The fourth quarter is also traditionally our strongest cash generation period and we continue to maintain a high degree of financial flexibility as we ended the third quarter with $3 billion of cash and short-term investments.
Including the pending Comex acquisition we will likely spend at or above the top end of our previously communicated range of $3 billion to $4 billion of cash in years 2014 and 2015 combined on acquisitions and share repurchases.
Our acquisition pipeline remains active and share repurchases are expected to remain an integral part of our cash deployment including additional repurchases in the fourth quarter.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Once again we appreciate your interest in PPG.
And now operator would you please open a line for questions? Chuck maybe you can give us an update – we’ve seen oil prices come off pretty dramatically.
I know you have got a lot of derivative exposure to that.
Can you give us an update or a reminder as to what that exposure is? And then also I know there are some outages around some of the derivatives that you use out there but typically how quickly -- when we see a big oil price move how quickly do we see it actually impact your cost overall? Thanks.
I would say overall historically on our organic raw material purchases when you see it at -- let's call it these wellhead prices you’re going to typically wait at least a quarter or two to see that begin to appear in some of the downstream products.
So it would not be immediate benefit other than in -- we hope to see it a little more quickly in our transportation and distribution costs which have been one of the sources of this low single-digit inflation rate that we’ve been experiencing over the course of the last year or so.
And then maybe as a follow-up I think you had indicated in the U.S.
your stores business for PPG legacy businesses had upper single-digit volumes.
Can you give us an update as to what the Akzo stores that you actually maintained through the full year or roughly for the full year what their year-over-year sales growth was as well? If you're seeing any loss of business there or any improvements there? John those legacy Akzo stores were minus low single-digits.
We have started to put the PPG products into those stores so the momentum has turned around and we saw increased sales out of those stores each month in the quarter.
Hi this is Matt Gingrich on behalf of Vincent.
I was wondering if you could speak more to the inflationary cost pressures that you’re seeing in your performance segment including the higher logistics cost that you noted in the release.
Well I would say that we’re saying low single-digit inflation rates led by wages and benefits followed by distribution and transportation cost that I referred to.
We've seen I would say also very modest raw material increases but these were in some of our organic raw material chains on propylene and ethylene side balanced off by some of what I would say benign raw material environments for our other key inputs.
And then to follow up in regards to your North American Architectural Coatings business I was wondering if you could talk more about how the independent channel performed over the last quarter.
So the dealer network was down very slightly and that has historically been a contracting segment for us and so it is consistent with our expectations.
Chuck a question you mentioned that you've got some long cycle businesses starting to turn non-residential construction North America and then the marine business.
Can you talk about what your exposure to non-residential construction is in North America specifically in the architectural paints business? And I noticed new marine builds are finally showing a little growth.
What kind of trajectory do you see in the recovery in that business? For Architectural Coatings on commercial construction typically is between 20% and 25% of the Architectural Coatings mix here in North America some of that new construction some of that repaint.
So I would say that is the market that has been very quiet over the last few years even coming out of the recession and that’s where we are seeing some improvement both on the Architectural Coatings side as well as what we mentioned as the flat glass business where we’re starting -- where we have more exposure directly to that end use market.
On the marine new build which is about 25% historically of our protective and marine coatings business unit.
I would say that the improvement is early stages low single-digit improvement but as we've been talking over the last almost now couple of years that had a very sharp retrenchment.
So it's good to see the improvement going in the right direction even if it's somewhat modest at this point.
Just as a follow-up on Comex is there any provision to reprice that acquisition given the recent drop in equity markets? To reprice? Excuse me Don what's that? Well any price adjustment that you could see on Comex given that obviously valuations have come down dramatically since you made your first offer.
No at this point we are not envisioning any repricing of the acquisition and their performance as we've monitored it since the time of the acquisition has continued to be quite strong.
Just first off on sort of the macro mosaic Chuck any sort of high level comments as to what you are seeing specifically occur? Maybe conversations with your customers just given the mixed data out there? And then also for 3Q specifically I know you called out volumes during that last conference call for the month of May.
Was there anything unusual for 3Q? No.
So first if we just look at business activity kind of across the end use markets with our customers and again it's been more of a regional mix or a regional story.
So the North American businesses have remained quite strong as we have been talking aerospace automotive OEM we are seeing construction activity that has been I think consistently growing initially residential now we’re seeing it also more broadly on the construction side.
So I would say so the key end-use markets here in North America continue to be strong especially here in the U.S.
What we have seen in the rest of the world is some moderation of some of the strongest growth trends.
We had seen some modest improvement in Europe over the first couple of quarters.
Those trends I would say have continued but probably at a slightly more modest level although the third quarter for us was still consistent with what we had seen earlier in the year.
Asia has been especially China a good story for us especially in these consumer businesses that -- where we look at the end use market growth in an automotive OEM automotive refinish packaging.
These have been solid growth stories in the Chinese market.
We see some improvement starting in India.
South America or Latin America for us outside of that automotive OEM and industrial space not growing as much in terms of construction activity.
So we’re still going through both in Latin America and in Europe some moderation on the construction side and some slightly weaker currencies in both of those markets.
Okay and then just in terms of Performance Coatings did the operating margins come in where you thought they would for the quarter? I'm just wondering why there was a drop off versus the second quarter level.
I think the operating margins were good.
Typically in the third quarter you don't see as strong of margin or sales growth because of August being a slower month in Europe and those three months versus the second quarter in the architectural business is generally not quite as strong.
But I would say otherwise we felt that it was a good performance in that group of businesses.
This is Neal Sangani on for Bob.
Some of the industry data out there showed a pretty significant deceleration in Chinese auto sales in September.
Did you see something similar in that market? And what might the growth look like in China for the fourth quarter versus the strong 10% you saw in the third? We saw some of the data that came out in the third quarter.
First two months of the quarter were quite strong and from a production or build standpoint which is where our sales are tied we continued to see good growth.
We feel have the momentum with some of the strongest performers in China in terms of automotive demand and at this point we’re seeing solid growth at the 5% to 7.5% kind of growth rates which were what we anticipated as we went into the year.
Great and your skeptical outlook for (indiscernible) price hikes in the back half earlier this year looks to have been pretty accurate.
At this point do you sense whether you might see some price inflation in 2015? That’s probably a little early to say but I think right now we’re seeing very consistent flat pricing in some of those inorganic materials.
On a regional basis volume looks like it was the slowest in Europe up less than 1% and yet your earnings increased at the fastest pace at plus 17%.
Can you elaborate on why that’s the case? Presumably costs are part of it.
If things slowdown from here are there additional levers that you can pull on the cost side going forward? Well I would say Kevin first on the volume side we did have a little bit stronger first quarter this year and I think we talked about it early in our calls that we had very favorable weather.
We had we think some things that probably pulled some of that business forward for us.
In the first quarter I would say the Architectural Coatings businesses in the third quarter probably a little weaker in terms of overall end use markets and we mentioned a couple of the Southern European markets including France were a little weaker.
But we still are finishing up I would say the restructuring actions and the costs that we have continued to pull out of that business.
It has been a very benign market in terms of inflationary cost more so than what you have seen generally out of Europe in terms of inflation.
So we think that there are still some things that we can continue to affect in Europe to continue to be more efficient more productive.
And so I would say that even in this very low volume environment we’re expecting to continue to drive more productivity and cost actions.
Okay and then as a follow-up Chuck given the downdraft in the equity markets do you see any potential to accelerate the pace of share repurchases relative to the 150 million that you bought back in the third quarter? We would anticipate Kevin that we are going to be buying at a higher level here in the fourth quarter.
During the second and third quarters we sat out a little bit of those periods from share buyback activities because we were waiting on to see if the transactions would develop or were out of the market.
So I would say that we’re going to be continuing share buyback activities in the fourth quarter at a higher level.
And we're obviously aware of the lower equity values for us and the market in general.
So that could provide an additional opportunity to be a little more aggressive on share buybacks.
Chuck you mentioned FX being a headwind Q4.
Would you care to try to quantify the impact of the weaker euro on your operations both maybe top-line and bottom-line in Q4? So if you look at the euro where we have the most significant impact.
Canadian is somewhat less of an impact but the big impact is the euro and I would say if the rates were to stay where they are now as compared to our plan which is basically in line with where we were last year at this time you are talking about $60 million to $70 million of impact on the top line mostly from translation.
The impact on the bottom line is more muted because we do have that natural hedge with our manufacturing and overhead infrastructure in the same region.
So you’re looking at an EBIT or PTPI impact of single digits millions of dollars on that 60 million to 70 million on the top-line.
And Chuck just in terms nearer term trends especially Europe has October seen a pickup in demand either in the industrial businesses or architectural versus September? I would say as I think I described our third quarter activity as September was consistent with normal seasonal trends coming off a slightly weaker August but a slightly stronger July here in the early part of October.
I would consider the trends to be normal in our European operations.
And I guess normal in Europe is very positive these days.
Hey Chuck you talked before about seeing marine starting to improve.
Can you give us some orders of magnitude? How far down has it come over the past few years? And what sort of a recovery are we seeing there so we can have an idea as to how long that might play out? Well I would say the new build activity which was again about 25% of our protective and marine business unit which let's call it rounding a $1 billion business.
And we were down over 30% in that market and as I mentioned this is just the beginning of what we think will be a modest but longer term recovery.
So we are up in the third quarter low single-digits in terms of recovery.
But it is a positive sign we feel that the market has hit bottom and is coming back.
So the expectation is that you could get back over the next two years 20% to 25% or so to get back to where normalized would be? I think if you look at the longer term trends and you are talking over the next -- this has been probably a trend that's -- the decline has been probably over three years.
So if you look at a longer three to four year period I think we can get back to those kinds of production levels but over that kind of timeframe.
And then you mentioned in the prepared comments about the strong M&amp;A pipeline.
Are there particular regions or product areas that you are preferentially going to outside of Mexico of course? Yes.
Well I would say is I commented earlier although almost all of the acquisition the modest acquisition activity that we have had this year almost all of that has been here in North America and that is similar again to the target market for Comex.
We see good discussions going on around the world probably now more balanced in the emerging region.
So again discussions both in Asia Latin America and Europe where maybe the levels of confidence over the last few years not quite as strong and this could provide us some opportunities going forward to make some key acquisitions over the next year or so.
I guess first question is on aerospace.
Do see the growth rates there slowing at all or is there a chance that they could take actually accelerate when you kind of get more content on the 787? I think if you look at production levels now both at Airbus and Boeing and the backlogs that we see I think you’re going to see a maintenance of this continued trend that we have seen in commercial aviation some improvement we hope in on the defense or military side of this.
Airline profitability had to also been improving so we were expecting and are hoping to see more improvement on what I would call that commercial aviation aftermarket.
So in general I think the trends are positive and growing although commercial aviation build rates I think are at a very good level now and will probably get slightly better from here but I don't see a major step change now with the build rates that they have.
And then on -- packaging has been lagging a little bit relative to the other businesses for a couple quarters.
What is kind of that strategy here to turn things around or is it more market driven? Thanks.
I would say it's both market driven and positioning of our business.
So we’re very committed to the packaging coatings market it’s been one of our best markets.
We are going to be aggressive in this business to make sure that the new technologies that are coming in with the BPA free coatings that we have we think an excellent opportunity to grow our position in the market.
And so we are taking the view that our participation and growth in packaging coatings albeit a mature market overall other than in the emerging regions is going to improve and increase as we go forward.
Chuck one quick question on auto OEM you continue to outpace the industry rate and I think previously you had mentioned that technology is the key driver.
If that’s the case should we expect that outperformance should continue in the foreseeable future? We still feel that we have very good momentum in the business both -- at all layers and in all regions but especially where we have seen a lot of new automotive assembly operations.
We are still very optimistic on the Chinese automotive market.
We think we are still in the middle stages of very good growth in that market and we’re seeing our water-based technologies our compact processes that eliminate one of the primer coating layers our electro-deposition primers that are world class and new over the last two years in terms of corrosion protection and efficiency for the automotive manufacturers.
We see these trends continuing so we feel good about our position and the opportunities to continue to grow nicely in our business on the backs of these technological innovations.
Okay and just to follow-up.
As you talk about that initial recovery in commercial construction I mean how confident are you that this is for real? And are there any risks there for something to go wrong? Well you know I think that commercial construction has been probably lagging for now I would say 5 or 6 years here in North America.
And if you look at the architectural billing indexes many of the commercial construction indicators are beginning to turn around we have discussed kind of the order book and backlog for our flat glass business which is one of the best indicators out there and our improving activity levels in Architectural Coatings.
So at this point here in the U.S.
market I think the trends are there.
Can things occur that derail it? Possibly.
Interest rates are at this point still quite benign here in this market.
Employment levels another important indicator they are up here in the U.S.
So I think the commercial construction market here looks solid.
And in some of the other regions we haven't seen as much of a lag and we’re not expecting as much of a push now in markets like Europe or China from commercial construction although we think the markets are -- have at this point normal activity levels but we’re seeing the opportunity for improvement here in the U.S.
market.
This is George D'Angelo on for Laurence today.
Could you guys provide an update on margins in the Akzo business and where you are seeing that over year-end going? It's consistent with where we saw it in the second quarter so it's low double-digits right now which is a significant improvement from this marginally negative number they had when we bought it.
And just a follow-up I know this is a question you guys have gotten in the past but glass is a non-core business.
Are you guys open to selling it? And if so when would you sell it? Well we haven't really put a timetable on it.
As we have stated in the past on many of our non-coatings businesses we would be open to discussions or transactions that create value for our shareholders but we do not have any discussions going at this point on those businesses.
Just a couple of questions if I may can you give us a little bit of detail you talked about the Chinese market being a strong market for you in consumer products you mentioned auto OEM and auto aftermarket.
Can you talk about the architectural growth both in China specifically but also in Australia and Asia in general? In China in the third quarter we grew low double-digits.
So it was a nice performing quarter for us there.
Australia we grew mid upper-single-digits.
So we had new product launches in Australia did very well there.
So both of those market segments not only grew and also had improving bottom line as well.
That is not just on the architectural side correct? That is on the architectural side specifically.
As far as Australia for our other businesses they also had a very good quarter.
It is growing and I would put it more in the low single-digits rates for those businesses and for our Chinese business as you know for our other ones it predominantly serves a local market.
So it is a growing market.
We had success in all our businesses.
Okay.
If I remember correctly and perhaps I am misremembering but your Chinese architectural business was not growing as strongly in the first half of the year.
If that’s correct and you are seeing low double-digit growth there in the third quarter sort of what changed given that the economic conditions in China probably didn't change for the better? No it was growing in the earlier part of the year as well.
It was? Okay.
I must be misremembering.
All right and then just a follow-up-- It is a small business Dmitry don't forget that.
I understand that.
On the automotive OEM Chuck did a very good job outlining sort of the new products and the initiatives that you have driving your above market sales but if you kind of look at the 3.5% industry sale that you referenced versus a year-ago which was about double that.
How much of that incremental growth if you will above the market is driven by the initiatives that -- the PPG initiatives that Chuck described? And how much of it is you being just partnered with your customers that may be gaining share because of faster relative growth of their brand? Well we have a fairly broad industry representation.
We serve almost all of the global OEMs.
We have done quite well in China which is one market where you see a lot of domestic manufacturers we have done well there and we have seen in some of the markets where we have been well-positioned in markets like North America where you see the truck and SUV markets have been probably the strongest segments.
So that has helped us.
We also have good participation with the Japanese OEMs outside of Japan and especially here in North America and Europe.
And as you see the migration of those Japanese auto builds from a domestic production in Japan exported to the rest of the world they have put more of their production capacity outside of Japan and that has given us a good opportunity to increase our participation in those Japanese OEMs as they globalize their manufacturing footprint.
There have been some I guess changes in ownership in the automotive OEM coatings area and I was wondering is when you look at the evolution of that industry do you think it will be harder for you to take share or easier or the same? Is the industry competitive climate roughly the same or is it different? I would say the industry competitive climate has always been -- I would say has always been there.
It's been what I would call a high competitive intensity fewer players but high competitive intensity.
We see that continuing and if I look at growth rates and participation in markets in Asia as an example I see a continuation of those trends.
Although here again we have been able to do well in these markets despite what I would call large global competitors and I expect that activity to continue Jeff.
Okay and then for my follow-up Europe did slow from 3% to something like flat growth or flat to up growth.
Is this a one-off event or when you look at your European business over the next three or four quarters do you expect it to flatten out? You will be up against tougher comparisons because of weather all things being equal and it seems that economic growth has slowed down and will that change your approach to I don't know removing costs or investing in the business? Well if you look at a couple of the macro events in the region and so for us our European business includes Eastern Europe and Russia it includes the Middle East and Africa.
And we think that there has been some moderation obviously of growth in -- our Eastern European business has continued to be good relative to the overall market.
Russia has obviously weakened some.
The Middle East is a difficult market right now.
And in Africa although it's a smaller part of that overall region for us both with port congestion Ebola and other things there are some macro or geopolitical trends right now in Europe that are going to moderate those growth rates.
So we’re going to focus more on cost reduction productivity as we have and if we see things beginning to weaken we will become more active on cost reduction.
I think as we said Europe for us in September and here in early October has been a -- what we would call normal or consistent trends.
Certainly we weren't in a high growth rate in any of those markets with the exception of what we experienced I think in the first quarter of this year when we got a little bit of favorable weather that helped the architectural business.
So we’re going to hunker down if we need to and work on costs here in Europe to keep this very good earnings trend going even if the growth rates continue to be as modest as they have been this year.
Back in May during your Analyst Day you talked about rebranding in the independent dealer channels.
And can you just talk about how is that rollout going and what kind of growth are you seeing in that particular channel? We are starting that as well as the rebranding in the company owned stores.
And we said in an earlier question that the independent dealer market was very modestly lower.
So I think a minus 1 kind of number to think about.
So it has helped but we haven't rolled it out completely but it is in progress.
And then in the refinish market there is a big consolidation going on with the multi-shelf operators like Service King.
So can you talk to us about what is your position with those customers? We have a very good position with the multi-shop operators.
Service King in particular now -- there is ownership changes I think in that market and with that customer with private equity.
But overall PPG's position in North America with multi-shop operators is very strong.
There has been consolidation but we have continued to benefit from the trends and it is a growing trend.
We think over the next few years to see more consolidation as you move across the value or supply chain in refinish but right now we feel we are well-positioned in this market to take advantage of any acceleration of the existing trends.
Wondering if you could comment on the opportunity in interior can coatings? Could you just size the opportunity for us in 2015? Seize the opportunity in terms of overall market or sales? Overall -- yes the sales that you might expect to generate yes.
Well I would again mention that this is packaging coatings business important market for us.
It's one of our smallest business units however and traditionally we have been less present on the inside of the can.
And if you look overall at the market we’re -- this is probably around on the order of magnitude of less than $5 billion overall market and we think that if you look at the opportunity for us we can probably grow our position by double-digits over the next few years especially with the introduction of new technologies with BPA free.
And just on the Comex process what are the next steps for that? Are you reasonably certain that all the information has been collected and you are just waiting on an answer? Or does there need to be any more hearings? What can we look for? So the way that works is once a week they publish an agenda so they will publish an agenda Friday tomorrow for next week.
All the questions have been asked and answered.
We're obviously waiting on them to put it formally on the agenda.
They have not asked any questions in the past 7 to 10 days.
So we’re in a wait mode right now.
We feel confident that given the fact that we have negligible presence in Mexico that they will look favorably upon this transaction.
Curious about the effect of raw materials obviously you highlighted that with oil coming down that you might see some relief on your raw material for the next quarter or two.
How will that impact your ability to hold price for your products? Will you be able to hold price for a few quarters after that or will you have to give up price almost immediately too? Typically there has been a lag in our industry both on the upside or the downside.
But I would tell you oil at the wellhead price is not a direct raw material input for us.
So I would tell you that it depends on what's happening downstream in the petrochemical change so that you can get a lower oil price but it may take a while and then it depends on what is happening in some of our monomer or polymer costs to see when those oil wellhead prices really translate to either lower gasoline or lower propylene cost.
Understood.
Also would you help us -- give a little bit more color what you mean by active when you refer to your active pipeline? Are you seeing more people come to you? Are you seeing more properties with an attractive price? What do you mean by active? Well active I would describe as; one there is probably more auction activity today.
So if you look at kind of the larger space and I'm talking globally now there is probably now several more auctions or properties that are actively being marketed for sale and they are also good.
We always try to have a consistent dialogue with any coatings companies that may potentially now or in the future want to sell and I would say those discussions have been more active.
But we’re also seeing auction activities that would demonstrate that the pipeline for us or the activity level in the coatings space is there.
Understood and there is just a follow-up.
Would you sense that given what you see today in this activity that a year from now there could be an acceleration in how much M&amp;A you have done? Or is it just an indication that the market has sort of -- that has been dry sort of opening up again? I would say you have seen some transactions announced over the last year.
We have done a number of them probably five or six here almost all in the U.S.
smaller transactions.
I would say that if the pace of activity continues you are going to see over the course of the next year or two probably similar levels of activity and some larger transactions.
And I would say that if you described ours as bolt-ons I would say that you are going to see some slightly bigger transactions even if they are not kind of megadeals.
So I would be surprised if we didn't see more announced transactions both on the part of PPG or potentially others in the market over the next 12 to 18.
A follow-up to the M&amp;A activity with your targeted I guess returning 3 billion to 4 billion through acquisitions and share repurchases if the acquisition pipeline doesn't pan out as planned would that indicate more share repurchases to hit that $4 billion number by the end of next year? Yes.
All right and for the Glass business have you done all the rightsizing of that business? And now the only thing left is for activity volumes to pick up there or are there more levers to pull in Glass? I think that there are still some more levers to pull as we try to improve the overall performance of the assets and I think we indicated in the third quarter although we had improving let's call it operating performance in the flat glass business.
We still struggled on the fiberglass side with our operation so there is certainly an opportunity there to improve the performance of that business which is about half of the overall glass business.
And I think we have some opportunities more broadly to improve the performance and the asset base of those businesses over the next couple of years.
All right and quickly on Comex.
Is there a legal deadline that the Commission has to make a decision on the application? Yes right now they have to respond by the middle of December.
Just to follow-up on the comments around the glass business.
I think you said that natural gas costs were very heavy in the quarter.
Do you expect natural gas costs to turn positive in fourth quarter or should prices stay at around the same level? Eugene this is Vince.
It will still be a slight negative but the first quarter last year saw a significant increase in natural gas costs in the first quarter of ‘14.
So if prices stay where they are today it would be a tailwind in the first quarter of 2015.
And just a question on U.S.
architectural business the (indiscernible) season it seems like is extending a little bit longer versus last year and you are negotiating some store closing also doing some rebranding.
So are you expecting year-over-year growth to accelerate in that business in fourth quarter? We expect to see continued modest growth in our business in the fourth quarter.
But remember it's a seasonally weaker quarter to begin with as the paint season typically winds down.
I just want to again thank everybody for their time and participation today.
If there are any further questions please contact me in the Investor Relations function.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Welcome to the Quarter Four 2014 PPG Industries Earnings Call.
My name is Sally and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the call over to Vince Morales.
Please proceed.
Thank you Sally.
Good afternoon everybody.
Once again this is Vince Morales Vice President of Investor Relations for PPG.
We appreciate your continued interest and welcome you to our fourth quarter financial results teleconference.
Joining me from PPG on the call today is Chuck Bunch Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Michael McGarry Chief Operating Officer and Frank Sklarsky Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our comments and Q&amp;A relate to the financial information released today Thursday January 15 2015.
I will remind everyone that we posted detailed commentary and the accompanying presentation slides on our investor center at our website at PPG.com.
The slides are also available on the webcast site for this call and provide some additional support to the opening comments that Chuck and Frank will make momentarily.
Following Chuck's perspective on the company results Frank will provide a brief financial update and then we will move directly to Q&amp;A.
Both the prepared commentary and discussion during the call may contain forward-looking statements reflecting the company's current view about future events and their potential effect on PPG's operating and financial performance.
These statements involve uncertainties and risks which may cause actual results to differ.
The company is under no obligation to provide subsequent updates to these forward-looking statements.
The presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
In the appendix of the presentation materials are reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
For any additional information please refer to PPG's filings with the SEC.
And now let me introduce PPG's Chairman and CEO Chuck Bunch.
Thank you Vince and good afternoon everyone.
Today we reported fourth quarter 2014 financial results that established new fourth quarter milestones for net sales of $3.7 billion and fourth quarter adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of $2.11.
Our sales improved 6% a figure that includes an unfavorable 4% impact from currency translation.
So our sales in local currencies grew by 10%.
Our sales volumes grew about 4% year-over-year a growth rate higher than our third quarter level.
Although the overall pace of business remained varied by region the growth rate of each major region also improved sequentially.
Our U.S.
and Canada business delivered sales volume growth of about 5% year-over-year.
Our Asia-Pacific region also grew 5% the highest growth rate of the year.
Sales volumes in Europe the Middle East and Africa grew by about 1% after being flat in the third quarter.
Our sales volume growth was broad-based across our business portfolio including our Industrial Coatings segment where each business in the segment delivered solid volume growth.
Sales volumes also improved for aerospace automotive refinish and our architectural coatings business in the U.S.
and Canada.
For the fourth quarter we generally experienced normal seasonal trends in all of our businesses and regions.
Supplementing the company's volume growth in the quarter were acquisition-related sales gains of about 6% stemming primarily from the Comex acquisition which closed in early November.
Comex had partial quarter sales of about $175 million with a mid-teen percentage return on sales reflective of the quality of the business.
From an earnings perspective our fourth quarter adjusted earnings per diluted share of $2.11 improved 26% versus the prior year supported by growth of at least 10% in each of our reporting segments.
The improved segment earnings were driven by higher sales volumes continued aggressive cost management and benefits from the Comex acquisition.
Cash deployed on share repurchases was also a contributing factor to our record results.
We repurchased $300 million or about 1.4 million shares in the fourth quarter which brings our full-year total to $750 million or about 3.8 million shares.
In the quarter our average diluted shares outstanding were 2.7% lower versus the previous year's fourth quarter and 3.7% lower for the full year 2014.
Now let me comment quickly on our full-year results.
On a full-year basis our sales were $15.4 billion up 8% due to higher sales volumes and acquisitions.
Our full-year sales volumes grew more than 4% in the U.S.
and Canada between 3.5% and 4% in Asia and Latin America and about 2.5% in Europe although most of the European growth occurred in the first half of the year.
Our adjusted earnings per diluted share was $9.75 up 27% versus our prior year record.
We have delivered at least 20% adjusted earnings per share growth for several consecutive years clearly illustrating the benefits of our active portfolio management earnings accretive cash deployment and persistent operational focus.
For the quarter and full year I was pleased with our strong financial performance and overall operational execution in what was a modest growth year from a global economic perspective.
Just to comment on a few other highlights for the company in 2014 our earnings improved in each major region by at least 14%.
This includes an improvement of more than $100 million or 21% in Europe despite muted regional economic activity and currency headwinds late in the year.
Most of our businesses continue to execute very well and in several cases we outperformed respective global industry growth rates.
I'm also pleased to report that we have realized one year ahead of schedule a targeted run rate of acquisition synergies relating to our 2013 acquisition of Akzo Nobel's North American architectural coatings business.
After nearly two years of successful business integration we are now shifting to a growth focus for that business.
From a balance sheet management perspective in the fourth quarter we refinanced some of our debt obligations which will result in lower net interest beginning in 2015.
Frank will talk more about this in a minute.
Strategically 2014 was another very successful and eventful year as we continue to enhance our business portfolio.
This includes the first-quarter sale of our ownership interest in the Transitions Optical joint venture for $1.7 billion pre-tax or $1.5 billion after-tax.
Also the Comex acquisition completed in the fourth quarter was the second largest in our company's history.
We are very pleased to now have this high-quality business as part of PPG.
Finally we continued our heritage of returning cash to our shareholders with more than $1.1 billion returned for the year through dividends and share repurchases.
I will remind everyone that we have paid a dividend for 115 consecutive years and raised our annual dividend payout for 43 consecutive years.
We increased our per-share dividend 10% in April of 2014.
Again a very strong fourth quarter and full-year performance for our company.
As we enter 2015 our overall outlook is similar to what we experienced last year.
We anticipate growth rates will remain mixed by region with North American and Asian economies continuing to grow at rates generally consistent with 2014.
Our base case assumption is that European growth will remain subdued overall; however we believe that European economies stand to benefit considerably if oil prices remain at current levels which may stimulate higher growth in that region.
Given our broad geographic reach and full array of coatings businesses we expect to benefit from the continued global growth.
From a PPG perspective we remain focused on new product development operational excellence and continued opportunities to deploy cash for earnings accretion.
As many of you know at the beginning of 2014 we provided a cash deployment target of $3 billion to $4 billion for acquisitions and share repurchases.
That target encompassed years 2014 and 2015.
Our actual cash deployed relating to acquisitions and share buybacks for 2014 alone totaled about $3.2 billion.
Our acquisition pipeline remains active and share repurchases remain an integral part of our capital allocation strategy.
We anticipate deploying an additional $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion of cash on acquisitions and buybacks in years 2015 and 2016 combined with a focus on creating shareholder value.
Let me conclude by saying 2014 was an excellent year for PPG and our shareholders.
We are looking forward to a successful 2015 and now I will turn it over to Frank to review a few 2015 financial assumptions.
Thank you Chuck and good afternoon everyone.
I'll now cover several items that will assist in modeling our 2015 sales and earnings.
We've included in today's presentation materials a summary of these financial assumptions on slide number 13.
First is the impact of the Comex acquisition.
As Chuck mentioned we closed this acquisition in early November 2014 so we benefited from partial quarterly results in the fourth quarter of 2014.
For 2015 we expect the acquisition will add approximately $1 billion in full-year sales.
Incremental sales for 2015 will be $800 million to $825 million reflecting our partial year 2014 ownership.
The Comex business is expected to have a mid-teens earnings before interest and taxes or EBIT percentage return on sales for the year.
However this will vary by quarter due to business seasonality.
The quarterly seasonality of the business differs somewhat from PPG's European and U.S.
and Canadian architectural coatings businesses.
The Comex quarterly sales phasing is expected to be approximately 20% to 22% in the first quarter 23% to 26% in the second and third quarters and 29% to 31% in the fourth quarter.
Next as many of you are aware a variety of foreign currencies began to weaken in the second half of 2014 as measured against the U.S.
dollar.
As a result the company expects that year-over-year currency translation will unfavorably impact sales by $650 million to $750 million and earnings by about $65 million to $75 million.
These figures represent our current assumptions and are based on current exchange rates as of this week.
Again these impacts are currency translation related and given the nature of our business we typically do not incur significant transaction related currency impacts.
The next item relates to the company's pension and other post-employment benefits or OPEB expenses.
We are expecting these expenses to increase by about $60 million to $65 million in 2015.
This increase stems from changes to employee and retiree mortality rate tables that are commonly used by most U.S.
companies.
Also the year-end discount rate that is used to determine OPEB and pension liabilities was lower at the end of December 2014 versus December 2013.
Both the discount rate and the mortality tables represent important calculation variables when computing estimated annual OPEB and pension expenses.
This increased expense will be recognized in our financial results ratably throughout the year.
As Chuck mentioned we expect lower net interest expenses for 2015.
We refinanced a portion of our term debt in the fourth quarter which is the key driver of this decrease.
Included in the appendix of the presentation materials are details of the debt obligations we refinanced.
We expect a total of $55 million of lower net interest expense year-over-year with $18 million less expense in the first quarter and $11 million $14 million and $12 million lower in the second third and fourth quarters respectively.
Next we anticipate that the company's 2015 tax rate on ongoing earnings from continuing operations will be in the range of 24% to 25%.
The comparable rate for 2014 was 23.9%.
The increase relates primarily to higher earnings in Mexico resulting from the Comex acquisition.
The Mexican tax rate is higher than PPG's global tax rate.
Other factors may also impact the 2015 tax rate throughout the year including the regional mix of earnings.
Finally as Chuck mentioned the company anticipates cash deployment of $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion in years 2015 and 2016 combined for acquisitions and share repurchases.
This is incremental to the approximate $3.2 billion that has already been deployed as part of the previous target of $3 billion to $4 billion.
Once again a summary of these financial assumptions is contained in the presentation materials for today's call.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Once again we appreciate your interest in PPG and now operator would you please open the line for questions? [Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi from Baird.
Go ahead sir.
Just in the context of all the macro data all over the world you obviously saw an improvement in core volumes.
Is that just your end-market exposure that leaves you better positioned on a relative basis or share gains? I'm curious on your perspective just because comps were tougher in 4Q.
I would say that I think this reflects our exposure to the end-use markets on a regional basis.
I would say that's probably the largest factor although we have several businesses that have outpaced the global growth rates as we look at them.
Okay.
And just switching to North American architectural just given Lowe's announcement with the HGTV brand just curious on your thoughts as to what your big retail partners are sharing with you in terms of strategy? Are they pursuing a more broad-based set of brands throughout their stores or is this something just a test case and we'll wait and see what happens? Ghansham this is Michael.
First of all I want to say that with the line reviews we did come out modestly ahead so that's a net positive.
I think when you think about the big boxes they are all focused on getting more traffic into the stores.
Once they get that additional traffic in the stores they're trying to convert them at a higher rate and I think that's their strategy and we're certainly looking to be part of that higher retention and growth rate.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews from Morgan Stanley.
Go ahead.
Thank you and good afternoon everyone.
Wondering if you could talk a bit about how we should be thinking about your raw materials as we move through the year just given the move in crude and in ethylene and propylene and how we should be thinking about that both in terms of the cost line potentially in terms of how it might impact the revenue line if you have to give some of it back and just sort of the cadence of it.
Let me give you a little bit of a background.
In the fourth quarter we didn't see the raw material benefits we've seen throughout the course of 2014 the stability overall in raw material pricing and that's where we were in the fourth quarter.
What we have seen here at the end of the fourth quarter and now going into the first quarter of 2015 with these larger oil price declines we are now currently negotiating with many of our suppliers around the world on the impact of these oil price declines on their pricing.
I would say the general trend of the discussions is modestly lower at this point.
We've seen some commodities that have moved more quickly.
These would be products like solvents which are more commodity-like and trade closer between spot and contract pricing.
But I would say that right now we don't buy our raw materials for the most part on indexes so these discussions are really taking place around the world on a variety of commodities.
We have seen a little more weakness if I look at it regionally a little more weakness in the Asia-Pacific region.
Their prices typically respond more quickly.
In Europe we have seen lower economic growth but weakness in currency that's muting some of these dollar based oil declines.
So we're going to see where that takes us here over the first quarter and likewise here in North America business conditions a little stronger and we're currently negotiating with our suppliers here and we're only two weeks into the first quarter so it's a little too early to tell.
I think we will have a lot more visibility by the end of the first quarter.
And with our prices right now we've had relatively stable pricing here at the end of 2014 a few puts and takes but overall pricing is stable.
That remains our base case as we go into 2015 and we'll evaluate that as we see the trends overall in the markets both here and around the world.
Just maybe as a quick follow-up could you just maybe tell us roughly in the raw material basket that's oil linked in one way or another what percentage would you say is pure commodity versus what percentage might be a product that's priced for value rather than has some differentiation to it that's just not necessarily going to move one for one with a propylene or an ethylene price? Well our raw material basket if you look at all of the things we're doing in both the organic inorganic area plus other packaging materials and general purchasing I would say about 20% overall was tied to hydrocarbon pricing broadly.
And I would say that of that mix -- I haven't looked at it quite in terms of commodity versus polymeric differentiated resins but certainly less than half of that total is tied directly to commodity pricing.
So I would say we are typically buying things that are either specified or somewhat differentiated so we're not buying a lot of ethylene.
We're not buying any ethylene anymore and very little of the propylene or other monomers that you could directly attribute to these price declines.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas from JPMorgan.
Go ahead sir.
You talked about revenues from Comex being about $1 billion in 2015.
I was wondering what Mexican exchange rate you're using? I think the peso has maybe fallen about 10% on average and so I would've thought there would have been more of a currency penalty.
Jeff when we announced this deal the currency was 13.2 it peaked at about 14.7 it's trading today at 14.5.
So it's up about 10%.
But despite that all the $0.65 to $0.75 of accretion that we expect on EPS we will deliver.
Jeff this is Vince we've seen growth in the business over that time period that eclipsed most of the currency declines.
And then for my follow-up I think in your financial statements you call out about $36 million in transition costs in the quarter but in the footnotes it looks like there's $52 million in costs.
There is a $21 million inventory step-up $17 million in R&amp;D $14 million in other.
So does that mean that some of these costs were included in operating earnings? No I don't know if you're looking at a pre-tax/post-tax number but associated with the acquisitions primarily Comex is that $29 million that you talked about it's a pre-tax number.
Two-thirds of that is the inventory step-up the rest of it is closing costs.
So that's associated with Comex.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar from Citi.
Go ahead.
Chuck when it comes to your pricing of your products historically you said that industrial customers look for a price break quickly compared to architectural business.
So I was wondering if you can talk about that dynamic of industrial versus architectural pricing.
Well I would say P.J.
there is no real standard in terms of when we're going to have discussions with either industrial or architectural customers.
Some of it is related to either bidding or negotiating policies when we've reached agreements.
So I would say at this point that it's difficult for us to say with these movements in raw material oil pricing that things that we can say hard and fast rule when we're going to be able to reflect any advantages that we get from lower raw material prices or when we'll have discussions with our customer base across the board.
Okay.
And then my second question is on OEM.
You've been growing faster than the market for many years and now one of your competitors is also claiming to be growing and gaining share.
And if the overall pie is not growing do you think somebody else is losing share? No I would say that as we reported in the fourth quarter we continue to perform well versus a global industry growth rate.
We think over time we have very capable competitors in this space and I think over time our growth rate should reflect overall industry growth trends on a long term basis.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Duffy Fischer from Barclays.
Go ahead.
A question on cash flow if I just do the quick math of it you talked about between $1.5 billion and $2.5 billion paying out either from acquisitions or buyback.
Your dividend is running at about $360 million so let's say that grows a little bit.
The dividend plus that say high end at $2.5 billion gets us to about $3.3 billion but your cash flow from ops this year without Comex was $1.8 million so over two years that gets us somewhere north of $4 billion of operating cash flow.
So it seems like there is a gap where you either build $1 billion in cash or I wouldn't think pay down debt with that.
So can you just walk through the triangulation of the cash flow generation over the next two years in the $2.5 billion number? Yes Duffy this is Frank.
So we ended this 2014 with about $1.2 billion in cash and we expect to generate over a $1 billion in both 2015 and 2016.
Remember that's an amount that's after CapEx and after dividend.
So what we're saying is without any of these additional actions when you take that $1.2 billion and end up with something north of $3 billion by the end of 2016 and we intended to deploy $1.5 billion and $2.5 billion of that on acquisitions and share repurchase.
So the difference on the cash flow number that you and I are quoting is really the dividend and the CapEx.
And then if we just walk back a year ago seemed very optimistic on the acquisition front.
Obviously at that time you didn't know you were going to [Technical Difficulty].
You know that fell in your lap but we haven't seen other acquisitions that obviously were on your plate at that same time.
So what happened with those and I guess why weren't we able to or is it just a timing issue to do some more work on what was obviously your target list at this time last year? Well Duffy we did announce in the fourth quarter the acquisition -- the agreement for an acquisition with REVOCOAT or AXSON the automotive OEM material supplier that has not closed yet but that was announced in the fourth quarter and we still have a number of discussions and negotiations going on.
So we remain confident and optimistic that we'll be able to deliver more acquisition growth here in 2015 and beyond.
So I feel pretty good about it and we did get the other one announced that we haven't closed obviously but I think that was a positive step and that will be a good opportunity for us going forward in our Industrial Coatings segment.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from David Begleiter from Deutsche Bank.
Go ahead sir.
Chuck just on your gross margin can you talk about the 2015 versus 2014 thoughts given one the addition of Comex and two obviously the big drop you will see in raws? In the past you've seen a pretty big uptick in the gross margin off of sharp declines in crude oil.
Well I would say at this point David that we're looking to have maybe small incremental improvements in the overall gross margins with not only the acquisition of Comex but also what we're seeing in our other businesses with some headwinds out there in terms of currency and the like.
But we think it's going to be stable to slightly up in terms of margin performance.
Obviously we're going through this negotiation phase and we don't really know where raw materials and others have settled out.
But I think there are some opportunities for improvement here but right now I would say we're looking for stable to just slightly higher margin opportunities.
So just on the trends in January any destocking that you see amongst yourselves or your customers? This year we have an early reporting date today so we haven't seen as much of a trend.
There were some things happening in the fourth quarter with individual customers and inventory management but I would say it's a little too early to say.
I think what we did note in our recorded documents is that weather patterns looks like so far more of a normal winter here in North America but we also benefited in the first quarter last year from very good weather in Europe.
So right now it's a little too early for us to see any significant trends overall for our business.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Bob Koort from Goldman Sachs.
Go ahead Bob.
Chuck you guys noted the mid-teens operating margins in Comex and I guess I would've thought seasonally maybe it would've been a little bit lower than that.
I think your guidance is for mid-teens in 2015 but you note there is seasonality.
So is there something different about the Mexican paint markets from the U.S.
paint markets in terms of that seasonality? Bob this is Michael.
I think Frank covered some of this in his opening remarks but think about 20% in Q1 25% in Q2 and Q3 and 30% in Q4.
Generally the mid-teens in the fourth quarter it's a seasonally stronger quarter for them so we'll start a little bit slower in the first quarter but we'll build up and we have some good opportunities there.
Their resin plant is not fully loaded so we're looking at supplying our own Mexican operations with that.
We've looked at some synergies as well.
So I think right now we'll be trending toward that $30 million to $40 million synergy number that we gave you as well.
And Michael I know your beating stick has a little blood on it from marking up those TiO2 companies in the last few years.
Can you give us a sense if there is any more room to rift or substitute or get some more price relief there or do you think we've come closer to the end of those trends? I think our view of the market hasn't changed it's still oversupplied.
You have billions coming on with the new chloride plant in China.
We've looked at the preproduction samples; they are getting better more consistent it will be up and operational late in Q1 early Q2.
When you look at the industry in general we still plan to take out TiO2 get more formulation 1% to 2%.
We think our other folks that we compete with have similar type programs.
We saw Comex had a similar program.
So the trends that you see I think will continue.
Cost component of those substitutes which may be petrochemical-based doesn't reduce some of the likelihood of moving away from TiO2? I don't think so.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Don Carson from Susquehanna International.
Go ahead sir.
Yes two questions.
First on going back to auto OEM and I think for over a year now you've been growing above industry growth rates.
What exactly is it that enables you to do that? Is it your eco technology which is quite differentiated from others? And Chuck why is it that you think you'll eventually fall back in line to just growing at industry levels? And then just a follow-on on your glass business you seem to have an improving outlook there both from a volume and raw materials standpoint.
Is now the time to monetize glass or do you think that there is further improvements to come? Well on the auto OEM side first Don I would say that I think we've been benefiting from some technology developments especially as they apply to new plants in the developing regions.
So we were well-positioned there to take advantage of brand-new plants that were converting to newer technologies.
So I think it was a good fit with the technologies and position that we had and we've been growing nicely with some of the most successful companies on a global basis.
So we were well-positioned with some of the customers that we’re growing the fastest so that we have been the beneficiary there in what has been overall a very good period for global automotive growth not only here or in China but in general we've seen good growth trends for the industry and we think that we're positioned to do that over the next couple of years.
But as we look at the competitive arena these companies that we're competing with either globally or on a regional basis are capable organizations so that I would say that over time we would expect that the growth trends for our company would be similar to what we're seeing in the global industry growth trends.
And the second question is the glass business; yes the flat glass business and we've been talking about this for the last several quarters.
We've finally seen some improving trends there.
We had obviously one disposition of one of our glass plants here in North America to Fuyao and we think that business in particular is positioned to improve results as we go through 2015.
As we have talked about in the past these businesses are let's call them less core and we continue as we did with this sale to Fuyao we continue to look for opportunities to create shareholder value in these businesses.
So if we see the right opportunity or the right transaction in either this flat glass business or the fiberglass business we will certainly proceed and the timing at least if these trends continue will certainly be better than some of the things that we've faced over the last couple of years and we said we were going to be patient.
So we're going to wait and see.
This is still early days in the recovery but very good trends here.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy from Bank of America.
Go ahead Kevin.
Just a question for Mike I was wondering if you could provide an update on your execution against your plans to increase store count in the U.S.
and Canada as you had outlined back in May in Dallas.
What have you done so far and how much do you see ahead for 2015? Sure Kevin for 2014 we increased our store count by 35 through acquisition and 17 new.
So that's a total of 52 plus 13 in Canada and then we also grew stores in Europe and of course with Comex they also added 174 concessionaires of which 32 of them were in the November/December timeframe.
For next year for 2015 that is we have a count between 25 and 50 for the full year.
And then I guess a broader question.
On slide 5 of your deck you illustrate trends by geography and it just strikes me that in Asia and Latin America you've had a very steady pattern of acceleration there.
I was wondering if you could provide a little bit more color as to what's driving that either by country or product line.
So page 5 in Asia if we start there Kevin -- the big growth driver for us has been China and we've had a number of end-use markets that have continued to perform well for us automotive OEM the refinish business the protective and marine coatings had good growth in industrial and businesses or segments like automotive parts.
So we have been well-positioned in Asia and in Latin America I would say the biggest trend has continued to be the Mexican automotive and industrial end-use market where we've continued to perform well and that's not including this Comex acquisition.
So let's call it the core or legacy PPG business in Mexico has continued to perform well.
The South American market has been a little spottier especially with the currency weakness but most of that growth in that region has come out of our core legacy PPG business in Mexico.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Roberts with UBS.
How much of the pension cost increase is interest expense and how much is this mortality rate change and what triggered that since I don't think you've done that before? It's about half-and-half between the impact of the interest rates and the impact on mortality.
The mortality tables do not get updated that often but every several years folks that publish these things for corporate America do that and those came out in the fall.
Folks like Mercer and other consultants they go back-and-forth with this thing and negotiate what they think the most reasonable assumptions will be and then they get published to the world and so that's why it's rather infrequent on that element.
The other element the interest is really based every year on the December 31 rate that's associated with a basket of debt securities that matches the maturity of our liability payouts to our participants.
And that rate which is about 4.8% at the end of 2013 dropped to about 4% even at the end of 2014 which nobody would've expected at the beginning of last year but that dynamic had an impact of $30 million of the $60 million of what we're looking for in terms of a headwind for 2015.
But that mortality rate change then will be an industrywide adoption that Mercer has now rolled out across most companies? Yes you're going to see that amongst a number of companies because we almost all of us use the same tables.
Okay and then secondly the specialty coatings and materials segment last quarter I think it was up -- not segment -- but the specialty coatings and materials SBU within Industrial Coatings I think it was up double-digit last quarter and now it's mid-single.
Is that just a more difficult comp that's there or what caused the deceleration there? There was no deceleration.
I would say we have a variety of -- that's called specialty coatings products and optical products that are in some cases tied into the electronics material value chain.
So this can cause some lumpiness in terms of quarterly sales because of seasonal trends for equipment electronic equipment and alike but there was no underlying business weakness issues that was just more of a seasonal pattern.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Frank Mitsch from Wells Fargo.
It's Sabina Chatterjee in for Frank Mitsch today.
Just going back to the cash question how should we think about the pace of the $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion program? It's also a pretty wide range so if you could just talk us through the factors that put you perhaps at the high versus low end that would be great.
I think that if you look at the entirety of everything we've always taken that balanced capital allocation strategy and we've said that acquisitions and share repurchase are really the two pieces of that and the allocation between those two will depend upon the acquisition pipeline and the pace of execution of that acquisition pipeline.
So in any given quarter you might see more of one less of the other.
We've said consistently that share repurchase will continue to be part of our capital allocation strategy.
So chances are we will be in the market on a relatively consistent basis on that element but what might drive the number of higher versus lower would be again at any time we might be in the market with share repurchase but also could potentially have an acquisition come over the transom and reach completion in any given quarter.
As we also said before we really don't have a limitation in terms of our cash domicile because we have enough tax-planning strategies to have the cash where we need it when we need it to execute this magnitude of returning cash to shareholders or doing acquisitions.
Okay and then on that topic of acquisitions you mentioned a pretty active pipeline.
Where are you seeing the greatest opportunities either by product or region? Well as you saw Sabina in 2014 we were fortunate that here in North America we were able to get a couple of smaller deals done in architectural and protective and marine coatings and then the big one here in the fourth quarter at Comex.
So I would say that we're still seeing discussions and opportunities in every region maybe for different reasons but many of these companies the small to medium sized companies that have been the core acquisition targets they are moved by in some cases either succession planning issues or concerns around market weakness and alike.
So for different reasons we're seeing discussions going on around the world.
So I would say that we think as you saw after all these deals that we did in North America in 2013 2014 and the announcement that we had in the fourth quarter around REVOCOAT that's a European acquisition.
So I think that shows you that we're engaged around the world and I would say that the patterns probably will continue this year.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Arun Viswanathan from RBC Capital Markets.
Go ahead sir.
I just had a couple questions.
I guess first off it appears that maybe one of the bigger risks that people are worried about here is Europe and in general industrial.
So maybe you can talk a little bit about both first off general industrial globally and then also as it relates specifically to Europe.
For us I feel that our general industrial business performed well in 2014.
Not every end-use market was as strong it depended on the region.
Most of the businesses were strong here in North America.
In Europe you still had some growth in automotive and automotive parts for a number of our industrial businesses are still some of the strongest end-use markets.
Some markets specifically here in the U.S.
you see the construction market is stronger so we've performed well there.
So I would say as we looked on for the full year of 2014 our Industrial Coatings or general industrial business did well overall even if not all the markets were growing at a consistent basis over all the regions.
And in Europe we saw some weakness there overall in growth rates especially compared to some of the other regions but we've worked hard in Europe to become more productive focused on our costs.
The automotive business in Europe hasn't been a strong growth market but it has grown low single digit percentages and we've been able to take advantage of again our technology and service capabilities.
So we feel pretty good about the business overall and going into 2015 as well.
And then on the performance side just wondering about aerospace you've been clipping at higher single digits there.
Is there any -- what's the outlook given potential for deliveries on both the OEM side and then also for aftermarket? And then if you have any comments further on refinish as well that would be great.
Thanks.
This is Michael.
We still see very positive trends in the aerospace business.
So I don't think that's going to change going forward.
Our refinish business we had I would call mixed results.
The U.S.
was by far the strongest and when you look at the trends that are driving that to lower gas prices that's a positive unemployment dropping that's a positive.
Truck rate going up that's a positive more congestion that's a positive.
So I think we're going to continue to see good volume in our refinish business but they are doing well in our light industrial and our commercial transport side.
So overall we're still very bullish on both of those businesses.
Thank you.
The next question is from Kevin Hocevar from Northcoast Research.
Go ahead Kevin.
I'm wondering if you could provide us an outlook for your U.S.
architectural paint business either by channel or by contractor and DIY market for 2015.
I would tell you that if you start with the macro we're looking at housing starts being up 100 000 so that should be a positive.
We're looking at the commercial market continuing to grow.
The backlog is still there with our commercial painters.
The dealer segment has been a declining segment so we would expect that to decline 1% or 2% again.
The big boxes should have modest growth as well so I think overall I think you can probably draw a picture of what that overall trend line looks like.
Okay.
And then just as my follow-up you mentioned if lower oil prices are sustained it could help stimulate EMEA growth.
I was wondering if you're seeing any signs of that at all right now in any of your product lines maybe those tied closer to the consumer or is that more of just potential to happen down the road? I think it's more a potential.
I think that's going to drive overall consumer spending if this continues.
The shortest term impact in our business directly we do sell into the oil and gas business in a couple of our businesses notably fiberglass for pipe or protective and marine has a component of their business which is directly tied to the oil and gas industry.
We haven't seen -- in the fourth quarter we didn't see any declines there for the most part but we're watching now sometimes maintenance rates actually go up a little bit during periods of lower activity.
But I would say we're watching that let's call it limited exposure to that market and I think the longer-term benefits of these lower gasoline prices here or in Europe we think they should start showing up here as we go through this year.
Certainly you're seeing it at the pump with the prices and that's going to keep more dollars in the pockets of the ultimate consumers and give them more opportunities to increase spending across many many categories.
As you know in the coatings world we're exposed to a broad range of end-use markets.
So we think that should be positive for us and the industry.
Thank you.
Next question comes from Jim Sheehan from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Go ahead Jim.
In your commentary on industrial coatings you mentioned consistent year-over-year global auto OEM industry growth for cash for the first quarter.
I'm just wondering is that consistent with the fourth quarter trend or the 2014 full-year trend or if maybe you could be more specific.
Well I think we feel that 2015 is shaping up similar to the growth rates that we saw in the fourth quarter.
Those were maybe slightly lower than the full-year 2014 but we're still looking for a positive growth here in the U.S.
of North American market China as well.
Europe is going to we think still grow but at a very modest level.
So I would say it's closer to the growth rates that we saw in the fourth quarter.
And what's your outlook for global industrial production that's in your assumptions? 3% to 4%.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Nils Wallin from CLSA.
Go ahead sir.
Just on volumes in Europe versus earnings growth one of the lowest volume growth regions but obviously one of the biggest earnings growth regions.
Clearly you have taken a lot of cost out of that business.
Is that earnings growth entirely due to operating leverage or is there some other mix effect in there and can that continue to grow at that pace with provided volumes stay at these low levels? It's definitely primarily the operating leverage and in the slide deck you saw where we stand in terms of the volumes versus where we were pre-recessionary levels and we're still high teens below peak levels.
So there is ample open capacity capacity utilization capability in the EMEA region so that we can still accrete earnings at that 30% to 40% for every dollar to the bottom line.
And as Chuck made some comments on the general industrial business as that improves as we continue to do well at high single digits in the aerospace business in that region and as things improve in the packaging sector we also expect to accrete margins at a nice level because there is ample open capacity and good fixed cost leverage throughout 2015 and probably beyond.
And then just as a follow-up more on M&amp;A certainly in the last year and a half Akzo and Comex transactions were pretty unique opportunities immediately accretive which isn't always the case.
How are you thinking about the opportunities going forward? Do all of them also look to be immediately accretive and what's your appetite for maybe not having an immediately accretive transaction? Well I think a lot of the deals that we've been looking at are the small to medium-sized acquisition opportunities and there depending on the levels of synergy we can see accretive transactions and so that's not necessarily a hard and fast rule for us and it has certainly played out in these recent transactions but it just depends on what we feel is the best opportunity.
Many of them we think we should be accretive over that first year or two after the acquisition but not always in the first quarter or so.
So we will continue to look at all of them although we like the immediately accretive ones.
It makes the discussions go a lot easier with our shareholders and analysts.
Thank you.
The next question is from Dmitry Silversteyn from Longbow.
Go ahead Dmitry.
2015 I think as of January French law mandates the absence of BPA in food packaging and cans and things like that and this was an event that you and others in the industry have looked forward to.
Now that it's here sort of what impact do you expect it to have on your European packaging business and your packaging business overall in 2015? As far as France we are getting inside-the-can wins we’re running commercial batches.
It is going well; the customers are pleased with it.
We also have BPA non-intent coatings commercially running in this space as well and those customers are happy as well.
So this is going to be a trend that's going to continue probably slowly.
It's not going to just jump right up.
This is an area that we gave up line time in 2014 so that we could position ourselves to grow as a once in a generation change inside the can.
As you know we have very little share inside the can so these are all positive moves for our packaging business.
And I'm sure you saw that we had that positive volume in the fourth quarter as well.
So I think it's looking up for us.
Okay.
So to sort of extrapolate Chuck's comments on 2015 being more like or possibly being more like the fourth quarter of 2014 should we expect stronger growth in the packaging business throughout the year as well? I think we'll see continuing volume growth modestly throughout the year.
And then my follow-up question broadly on EMEA you've delivered very positive growth in the first half of the year.
It slowed down a little bit in the second half of the year but you still came out a little bit ahead.
Is it possible for you given what's going on with the economy now and while you're waiting for the potential low oil prices to kick in to perhaps better economic activity later in the year but is it possible for you to sustain positive volume growth in Europe in 2015? Is that part of your expectation going in? I think it is possible for us to have positive volume growth.
If you look at the GDP forecasts for Europe they are not robust but they are slightly positive so we can hope at this point to see positive volume growth.
We're going to really also closely focus on our costs and productivity in Europe going forward.
If we see the trends not improving as we've shown in the past we will go after additional cost-reduction opportunities there or anywhere else in the world to keep this momentum going.
Dmitry the only thing I'd add to that Chuck is absolutely right.
The team over there is optimistic that we can look at modest growth consistent with 1% to 2% GDP industrial production projections over there but keep in mind we're about 15 percentage points plus down on the exchange rate versus where we were last year.
Current rate is about 117 on the euro versus high 120s low 130s last year at this time.
No no I absolutely understand the foreign exchange portion.
I was just looking at the price volume/mix organic growth.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Christopher Perrella from Bloomberg Intelligence.
Go ahead Christopher.
Could you just outline your outlook for growth in the Mexican architectural paint market for 2015? We're looking at the economy growing between 3% and 4%.
We have higher expectations than that for our PPG Comex business so I think you could probably take 1.5 times that as much as even two times that.
We're really seeing that they've done well.
All right and how much of the synergies have you already captured with the Comex acquisition? It's very small.
We said we'd get $30 million to $40 million and we fully anticipate getting all of that.
Thank you.
The next question is from Richard O'Reilly from Revere Associates.
Two quick questions both follow-ups the first is on the raw material comments that was a good explanation you gave Vince.
On the basket of goods the other 80% of that how much would be tied to like diesel fuel for shipping resins for packaging? I mean there must be great opportunity for savings there.
Rich our freight costs for the corporation are somewhere between 7% and 10% of our total cost bucket.
A portion of that just a portion of that is diesel-related.
We do expect diesel prices to roll through the transportation bucket at some point but it's a portion again of 7% of our total cost bucket.
We also have another call it mid-single digit percentage from packaging materials.
Some of those are oil-derived some of those aren't.
Again as Chuck mentioned as we get further and further out from the oil wellhead some of those take much longer to work their way through the system.
Okay.
And the second question is I think you still own a piece of the Auto Glass venture and the equity owners must have owned it now for several years.
Do you know of any change in their thinking of their ownership structure? We sold 62% of that on September 30 2008.
We did sell a small portion of that the insurance and services business earlier this year which we did net out a gain.
Right now our partner is Kohlberg.
They continue to look at everything.
I would tell you it is business as usual.
But the sale was actually in 2014.
For the insurance and services.
For the extra okay fine.
So business as usual.
Good thank you for those answers.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Vince Morales for closing remarks.
Thank you.
Once again we would like to thank everybody for their interest in PPG.
If there are any further questions please contact me in the Investor Relations function.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2015 PPG Industries Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Tawanda and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Vince Morales Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Tawanda and good afternoon everyone.
Once again this is Vince Morales Vice President of Investor Relations for PPG Industries.
We appreciate your continued interest in PPG and welcome you to our first quarter 2015 financial results overview.
Joining me on the call today from PPG is Chuck Bunch Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Michael McGarry President and Chief Operating Officer and Frank Sklarsky Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our comments relate to the financial information we released today Thursday April 16 2015.
I will also remind everyone that we posted detailed commentary in the accompanying presentation slides on our investor center at ppg.com.
These slides are also available on the webcast site for this call and provide additional support to the opening comments Chuck will make momentarily.
Following Chuck's perspective on the company financial results for the quarter we will move to the Q&amp;A session.
Both the prepared commentary the presentation slides and discussion during the call may contain forward-looking statements reflecting the company's current view of future events and their potential effect on PPG's operating and financial performance.
These statements involve uncertainties and risks which may cause actual results to differ.
The company is under no obligation to provide subsequent updates to these forward-looking statements.
The presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures the company has provided in the appendix materials which are available again on our website reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
For additional information please refer to PPG's filings with the SEC.
And now let me introduce PPG's Chairman and CEO Chuck Bunch.
Thank you Vince and good afternoon everyone.
I want to thank you for your interest in PPG.
Today we reported record first quarter 2015 financial results from continuing operations.
We achieved record first quarter net sales of 3.7 billion and record first quarter adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of $2.37.
Overall we continue to deliver strong financial results and I'm pleased with our sales and earnings per share growth in the quarter.
Our adjusted earnings per share were up 20% versus the first quarter record established last year with each of our reporting segments growing earnings by at least 10% in local currencies.
As I will discuss in a few minutes our strong performance was despite the fact that we faced some difficult prior year sales comparisons.
As a global company we were also impacted by unfavorable currency translation and continue to see variation in economic conditions among the major global regions.
Contributing to our record first quarter results were the benefits from our recent strategic actions and cash deployment.
This included both acquisition related earnings and a reduction in our share count stemming from cash deployed on share repurchases.
We have also continued to work diligently on other company specific actions.
This included a debt refinancing we recently completely which reduced our net interest expense in the quarter by nearly 50% versus the prior year.
In addition we have continued our strong legacy of cost and productivity improvements which you have come to expect from PPG.
Finally several of our businesses have continued to deliver strong and above industry growth rates as we benefited from our leading technologies and excellent customer service.
Again we achieved excellent quarterly results that were aided by specific actions we have taken strategically operationally and financially.
Now I will discuss some specific business trends for the first quarter.
Our net sales and local currencies grew by 8% while sales reported in U.S.
dollars were up 1%.
Foreign currency translation unfavorably impacted sales by 7% offsetting acquisition related sales growth of about 7% in the quarter.
Our sales volume growth was modest increasing about 1% year-over-year and reflects overall subdued global economic activity and a difficult comparison with strong prior year growth rates in certain regions.
Regionally our highest coatings growth rate was in emerging regions which in aggregate grew at about 6%.
This is up versus recent quarters as each of our businesses delivered emerging region volumes growth year-over-year.
This improvement was driven by a performance in Asia and specifically China.
In Latin America demand was mixed by country and also by end-use market.
Volumes at our U.S.
and Canadian coatings businesses declined slightly decreasing 1%.
Sales volumes this quarter were compared against sales in last year's first quarter that included 7% volume growth which is a difficult comparison.
Last year's volumes were favorable across many of our businesses reflecting strengthening regional economic conditions coupled with pipeline fills of new products at several of our major architectural coatings customers.
Despite the modest volume decline in the first quarter this year overall demand conditions in the region were generally favorable.
Most of our businesses continued to experience modest but consistent growth.
From a seasonal perspective in the region overall retail activity was weak in February but did recover and ended the month of March strongly.
We expect increased economic growth and higher PPG growth rates in this region in the coming quarters.
In Europe the Middle East and Africa or EMEA our volumes grew by 1%.
This was also in comparison to strong coatings volume growth in the previous year's first quarter of 4% which was very high relative to the economic conditions in that region.
The previous year sales benefited from very favorable weather conditions that allowed for an early start to the architectural paint season.
The region experienced a more normal weather pattern this year.
Strong performance from our automotive OEM business offset the lower year-over-year architectural coatings results.
We remain optimistic regarding the European auto market given the pace of regional auto sales during the first quarter.
As with previous quarters overall demand throughout the region varied considerably by country.
Most businesses delivered growth in the region with particular support from the U.K.
Ireland and certain Central and Eastern European countries.
Conditions remained weak in other countries such as France and also in our business in Africa.
Overall for the EMEA region we remain constructive on economic growth in the coming quarters.
We expect consumer spending in the region will benefit from the lower cost of oil.
Weaker European currencies are anticipated to stimulate higher exports and this is being coupled with overall Central Bank stimulus actions.
From a PPG perspective we significantly lowered our cost structure in the region and as we experienced over the past several quarters we expect excellent earnings leverage on any future volume growth.
With respect to currencies as I mentioned earlier unfavorable currency translation impacted our overall PPG sales by about 7% which equated to about $260 million in the first quarter.
This is primarily attributed to a weaker euro but included impacts from other currencies as well.
Based on current exchange rates we anticipate a full-year unfavorable currency impact on our net sales of about $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion and about a $110 million to $120 million unfavorable impact to earnings.
This is an increase from the figures we provided in early January when we reviewed our 2014 full year results and reflects further weakening of many major international currencies against the U.S.
dollar throughout the first quarter.
We expect the largest unfavorable currency translation impact for the year to occur in the second quarter given the seasonality of our businesses.
As a reminder our second quarter is traditionally our highest seasonal quarter of the year.
Based on current exchange rates we expect the quarterly currency translation to reduce sales in the second quarter by $350 million to $375 million.
From a segment perspective our performance coatings segment contains roughly two-thirds of our EMEA sales exposure as it includes our large architectural coatings EMEA business.
A last but important point with respect to year-over-year sales comparisons our 2014 acquisitions added about 7% to our first quarter sales.
This was primarily from our Comex acquisition which we completed in November but included other smaller acquisitions as well.
We remain very excited about our Comex acquisition.
The performance of the acquired business over the first five months has been excellent.
The business grew by more than 10% this quarter versus the prior-year pre-acquisition quarter and we remain on track for a high single-digit volume growth for the full year.
We expect to achieve the previously communicated acquisition related cost synergies with action plans well underway.
In addition we are now looking to fully utilize their very well established concessionaire distribution network from the sale of other legacy PPG products in several areas including light industrial coatings and protective coatings within Mexico.
We plan to provide updates throughout the year on the acquisition and our progress on these potential sales synergies.
Moving to our first quarter earnings performance our 20% adjusted earnings per share growth continues a strong multiyear trend for PPG.
Over the preceding three full years beginning in 2012 we have grown adjusted earnings per share by 20% 31% and 27% respectively.
This is a reflection of our transformed business portfolio and strong operational execution.
For the quarter by segment performance coatings sales grew 2% and segment income was up 6%.
Contributing to the results were the benefits from the Comex acquisition partly offset by unfavorable currency translation.
Sales for the industrial coatings segment were down 2% as strong volume growth of 5% was offset by a 7% unfavorable currency impact.
Segment income was up 6% on the volume improvements and improved manufacturing costs.
Glass segment sales were flat with higher selling prices in both businesses along with positive flat glass product mix offset by unfavorable currency translation.
Glass segment income rose to $30 million versus $4 million in the prior year quarter.
Results were aided by the improved product mix and lower manufacturing costs including the benefits from our 2014 sale of a flat glass manufacturing facility.
Additional segment details are available in the presentation material.
Overall our businesses performed well.
However we remain focused on our costs and are initiating restructuring actions focused on productivity measures in certain businesses or regions along with securing the synergies we committed to with our recent acquisitions.
We have approved and will record a restructuring charge of $135 million to $140 million in the second quarter.
We anticipate the restructuring actions will be completed by the end of 2016 and expect full year pretax savings of $100 million to $105 million in 2017.
Partial year savings in 2015 will be approximately $15 million to $20 million pretax.
While these are difficult actions we need to continue to aggressively manage our costs.
Lastly we continue to work on balance sheet optimization and earnings accretive cash deployment.
As I have previously mentioned we refinanced some of our higher cost debt in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Additionally this quarter we issued about $1.3 billion in long-term euro-denominated debt at an average interest rate of 1.1%.
We ended the quarter with $1.2 billion of cash and short-term investments maintaining strong financial flexibility.
Also we remain active with respect to acquisitions.
We completed the previously announced acquisition of REVOCOAT an automotive specialty materials manufacturer.
We also announced during the quarter that we submitted an offer to acquire the majority interest in an aerospace and automotive sealants business and are currently working through the customary works council and regulatory review processes.
We have an active M&amp;A pipeline and while we remain disciplined this remains a priority for cash deployment.
With respect to our shareholders we repurchased $200 million of stock in the first quarter.
Also today our Board approved an increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.72 per share we have raised our annual dividend for more than four decades and are proud of our track record.
The Board also approved a two for one stock split that will be effective in June of this year.
So as you can see we have remained active on all fronts.
Now I will quickly summarize in the phase of somewhat subdued economic activity in the quarter we delivered record first quarter financial performance supported by continued and aggressive operational execution.
We had excellent contributions from our recent cash deployment including the Comex acquisition.
We have continued to optimize our balance sheet and have kept focus on rewarding our shareholders.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Once again we appreciate your interest in PPG and now operator would you please open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of John McNulty with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
A quick question on Comex.
I guess you had indicated that you saw volume growth it was about 10% year-over-year organically.
And I guess I'm wondering what's driving that because it certainly seems a stronger than the general end markets down there would imply.
John this is Michael.
The Comex business has been performing on all levels they have – the GDP down there is around little bit around 3% and we have been growing.
We expect it we told you in the last call we grow probably 1.5 to 2 times that we have outperformed that that's been both government sales as well as the cohesion with our other PPG products.
So all in all I would tell you they’re doing a very good job and they had a early Easter promotion as well at segment augmented sales.
Great thanks.
And then maybe a question with regard to the restructuring plan and where the $100 million to $105 million of savings are coming from can you give us a little bit of clarity as to where you do see the biggest buckets in terms of opportunities there? John this is Frank.
So a little more than half of the actions are focused on some of the markets that have seen some subdued economic conditions so that will focus on Europe and some other areas of challenging economics.
So some of that savings will be in area of administrative backoffice increased shared services parts of the supply chain in terms of manufacturing productivity warehousing efficiencies things like that.
But if you look across the spectrum of the 100 to 105 savings it really does run across all regions all businesses and all functions.
The other thing that we are focusing too as we stated in that release is that part of the restructuring is focused on the acquisition synergies achievement and that was we always plan to do that.
So that's also part of it.
Great thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of David Begleiter with Deutsche bank.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Chuck on raw materials did you see any material benefit in Q1? And what's your expectation in terms of Q2 for gross margin expansion given lower raws? We saw very modest improvement in raw material pricing David in fact if you look across all the corporation in both our fixed and variable cost we had inflation that was just slightly negative less than 1% and so we still have not seen the full benefits of the raw material price reductions that we anticipate later this year.
We think the second half of the year we will be able to pull through some of these raw material price reductions in a more meaningful way.
I think we’ve talked about first quarter working through higher cost inventory levels as an example and getting those savings pull through from our suppliers we don’t have index prices as a rule with either our suppliers or customers.
So we focused on that and we think as we go through the year but certainly in the second half we are going to see more raw material benefits from our raw materials.
Very good.
And just in Asia and China you noted some acceleration in China.
That's perhaps against what we're seeing in terms of growth slowing.
So what are you doing well in China and Asia overall? I think for PPG we’ve been well positioned with several of the more consumer oriented markets not as focused on exports or construction we have exposure to those businesses.
And I think our strongest of markets in China were automotive OEM which is a domestic market in China those sales have continued to grow above - slightly above the what their overall GDP growth has been stated as so high single digits for automotive growth.
And we’ve been well positioned there with some of our new technologies compact processes we have done well in that sector packaging coating would be another example of a consumer oriented end used market that has grown faster than some of the export oriented or construction related business.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
Please proceed.
First off Chuck are you sensing a new level of optimism from your customers in Europe correctly? Or are your comments on lower energy costs and the pickup in exports from the region more your expectation on a go-forward basis? And also any early cycle businesses in the region that are starting to improve that you are particularly excited about? Yes Ghansham it’s good to hear from you I would say in Europe we have been probably waiting for recovery for several years and we remain cautious on how the markets are trending.
But I have been encouraged and this is not just a personal view it is our team and they have been pessimistic or as cautious as I’ve been but especially on the automotive side of the business you had seen sales growth accelerate here in the first quarter especially in Southern Europe.
So we’re talking now about kind of high single digit sales growth that we haven’t yet seen translated into production production increases or production growth which is where we have our sales and earnings.
And our team feels that if these sales levels continue that we’re going to see higher growth rates in automotive as we go through the year.
If you look at consumer confidence indicators they have also turned up in Europe and I think they’re combination of yes we’re facing some weaker currencies there but the combination of some of the central bank actions with some of the earlier cycle markets like automotive is starting to move I am a little more optimistic in the recovery here after the 2008 2009 recession automotive was one of the early movers after it really went down quite drastically.
And then it was the construction markets here in North America that took a little longer to recover and I would say that seems to be the case a little bit with us at least in France and Southern Europe we’re not seeing the construction markets bounce back yet.
But automotive we’re all more optimistic and that I think bodes well not only for that end used market but for a number of other industrial production end used markets.
So I’m a little more optimistic even with the weaker currencies and in fact that is probably going to be one of the contributing factors as we go through this recovery in the overall economies there.
And then just as a follow-on on North American architectural is it your view that pricing is sort of stable in the market? Just curious on what you are seeing from a competitive standpoint just given all the promotional activity in the channel.
The pricing is flat in the marketplace.
Is that your expectation that it stays flat for the year? Take the expectation is that it will remain flat.
Okay thanks so much.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Yes good afternoon.
Chuck it looks like we have some nascent momentum in vehicle miles driven.
Are you seeing any benefit in your refinish business yet related to that? Or would you expect any as the year progresses? Hi Kevin.
I would expect it’s a little early if you looked some of the winter activity last year we ended up having a pretty good year even though of the automotive refinish market started off quite slowly last year as well.
And so I think you were going to see some improvement in automotive refinish as we go through the year but the first quarter is a little too soon to get the benefit from what was pretty sharply cold winter here in the early months.
We saw obviously some improvement in the second half of March when things finally got a little better but we won’t see that yet in refinish it’s probably as we go through the second quarter and into the second half of the year.
Okay great.
And then the second question if I may on the glass business -- or a two-part question.
Can you comment on how much of the cost relief there was fixed versus variable? Just trying to get a sense of how durable it could be through the year.
And then second piece does the improved profitability influence your thinking on potential monetization of that business Well I would say that there has been improvement in our flat glass business in a number of let’s call it P&amp;L areas so fixed cost obviously we got helped by the lack of a big cold repair that we had last year in our Wichita Falls Texas plant.
We also completed the sale of Mount Zion facility in Illinois in the third quarter so the absence of those two elements helped so those were fixed cost improvements.
We also saw pricing and demand improvement too.
So I would say that the numbers that you’re looking at are sustainable of these are not one-offs and I think we have changed the direction of the business we’re at little bit of an inflection point as you know this is a commercial construction business and that market has improved.
Glass supply and demand is much more imbalanced we’ve gotten some pricing we’ve done well in the marketplace natural gas cost and others have been under control.
So I think we have some elements here for a sustained performance at this level and I think for us as always with this business we are – we will listen if there are opportunities to create value for the shareholders in any transactions and at this point I think we’re – we are just continuing to execute on opportunities in front of us in the marketplace for the business and we’re optimistic that this can continue.
Fair enough.
Thank you Chuck.
Okay Kevin.
Your next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Congrats on a nice start to the year.
I wanted to come back on the raw material question.
I know that one of your competitors was talking about seeing a roughly mid-single-digit type of improvement here in the middle of the year and actually accelerating towards year-end.
Are those the sort of figures that folks should think about with PPG as well? I’m not sure I haven’t listened or seen any of the reports on any other industry or competitive activity.
I would say as I indicated we do expect more help as we go through the year and in the second half I would say my comments would be that sounds a little on the aggressive side.
We’ve seen the oil prices move back up a little bit here and I would say that we expect some help but it not to the magnitude that you mentioned.
All right.
That's helpful.
And I noticed that packaging was a nice mid-single-digit type of improvement there.
What portion of that would you ascribe to BPA-NI? And what's your sense of the competitive balance there? And how should we think about that part of your portfolio? I think for us it is certainly a good sign and some of those volume gains were in BPA non-intent or BPA-free coating.
So I think it should give you some confidence as an investor that we’re performing and delivering on the technology challenges for the BPA-free material we feel pretty confident that we’re well positioned and I think you’re going to continue to see conversions in the food and beverage industry overall on the this technology.
So I think it bodes well for us although I would say we see other competitors active in this basis well but I think we feel positive with volume growth that you’ve seen and I think it’s an indication that our technology is going to be is going to deliver growth in the market.
Thank you so much.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
I was wondering if you could talk on the North American architectural about -- do you have the confidence that there was no underlying issues around the big box distribution channel? And have you seen any changes in DIY versus contractors? That's my first.
And then second can you talk a little bit about how your PPG-owned stores and Akzo -- or Glidden stores with the rebranding -- if there's any changes in what you've seen in dynamics there.
Thanks.
Bob this is Michael starting with the company owned stores we merge that the network together so you can’t really pull out legacy Akzo versus the old PPG and as we said in our opening remarks they were up mid single digits.
So we were happy with that and when we look at the big boxes we had some pipeline fill last year especially with the stain side we have nice stain position and that’s an early win there we did not have that pipeline fill in this year.
Overall we think when we look at the sell out from the big boxes it is progressing at a normal rate obviously the slow start to the paint season given the weather but we saw acceleration starting in mid March.
More your second question Bob that we covered.
Yeah that was the… It was just around whether or not you've seen any variation in DIY versus contractor trends.
And then in your own big box business whether there's any regional -- or of any underlying trends or it was really just an inventory management and tough comp issue.
No I think it was all – I think the inventory is a one-time and we’re seeing no material differences and how it goes out in the marketplace.
So we’re happy with what we’re seeing and the dealers and the contractors all performing what I would say as a reasonable marketplace.
Your next question comes from the line of Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Can you give a little bit more detail on how much of a lift you should have next year from not having the pipeline adjustments in the North American architectural? Hi Laurence this is Vince.
Pipeline adjustments for last year so it is just not recur so we actually have pipeline fills or higher levels of activity in the first quarter of 2014 and that’s what created the difficult comp.
And then the price mix can you give a little bit of regional flavor how that was doing in Europe and Asia? Prices generally for the company in all regions were basically flat the only favorable mix I’d say we had from an overall perspective was in our flat glass business where we moved up as commercial construction glass is more a value added product versus residential glass.
So we are moving up the spectrum as we saw more commercial construction into the market based on demand.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas with JP Morgan.
Please proceed.
Can you talk about the progress of your titanium dioxide chloride technology in China -- whether it's being well commercialized or well developed or whether it isn't? Hey Jeff this is Michael.
The plant is in the startup mode.
We expect to get commercial quality product in the second half of the second quarter and we will be looking at that.
So far what we have seen we have been pleased with everything and we’re happy so far.
Okay.
And as my follow-up question when you think about the changes in suppliers at Lowe's where they've gone from two paint suppliers to three do you think that that's a one-off event at Lowe's? Or do you think it's part of -- or it could be part of a larger industry trend as the coatings industry consolidates? Jeff I don’t know that we want to get into specific customers on this.
Certainly Lowe’s made decision and we would expect the other folks to try their own business.
So we will wait and see how that works out.
And just as a reminder as we said on the first in January you know with respect to our own center customers for calendar year 2015 we picked up a little bit more product.
Okay great.
Thanks so much.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Just a question on Comex.
Just looking at your comments on exceeding your net sales range from January I guess that's in the face of probably some challenging FX there.
Could you just talk about what the dynamics are that allowed you to exceed the range? Hi Michael again.
I think we have a strong market share down there.
We have increased the number of concessionaires and when we bought the business from 3740 we are up at 3 900.
We are adding a concessionaire every other day and that gives us additional penetration to the marketplace.
We also have the strongest brand in Mexico and the government there some election spending or actually some elections later in the year and the local governments are spending some money to help beautify their local areas.
So that’s also positive.
I think there are number of factors that are driving this.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
I’ll leave it there.
Let me just add to what Michael said.
So we – our anticipation in Comex as we are going to have a total opening of concessionaires this year somewhere between 116 to 119 new locations.
Again as Michael said one every other day.
Your next question comes from the line of Don Carson with Susquehanna financials.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Chuck a question on the trade-off between FX and raws.
You outlined that FX will be almost twice what you thought it would be on the January call.
You are a little more optimistic on the raw material outlook perhaps not as much as one of your competitors.
But do those two largely balance each other off? That is more raw material cost reductions offsetting that increased FX headwind? Well if you look we were down 7% in currency at least at the top line and we were down much less than that on raw material side.
Although not all the currency impacts our bottom line.
So certainly I think they are offsetting to a certain extent and we think that unfortunately currency is going to be more of a headwind here in the second quarter if these currency trends continue and in the second half it’s a little early to say what we’re going to see on currency but we think we will get little more help on raw materials.
So we’ve got some let’s call them countervailing trends here.
They didn’t offset indirectly the same ways in the first quarter and it’s going to be how we see this thing play out both on currencies and very unpredictable.
We think there is a broader trend in raw materials but not in a relatively moderate way.
And Don just one.
This is Frank.
Keep in mind that on the cost savings side I think we do get in our cost structure – including those savings we anticipate to get now through 2017 due to restructuring program that’s real economic benefit and structural benefit to our structure whereas on the currency side only about 10% of that goes to the bottom line because of the natural hedge we have by making our product generally where we sell it.
And that’s a not really an economic exposure as much as it’s just a translation exposure from the foreign currency into U.S.
dollars.
The transaction exposure which would be the real economic impact is very limited and we do hedge a portion of that transaction exposure where we buy in one currency and sell in another currency.
But that’s very very limited.
So we just want to clarify that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Please proceed.
Yes hi good afternoon.
I have a question on automotive refinish.
Can you talk about the dynamics there as one of your new competitors seems to be gaining some share? So just talk about what the dynamics there and what kind of organic growth are you seeing in refinish? P.
J.
automotive refinish in the developed markets is a relatively mature market.
And we have I would say a very incomplete industry growth data in terms of the actual refinish market.
But I would say that for us in terms of the market trends this has always been a competitive market there are few large global players we feel that as PPG we’re holding our own in the developed market regions and we’re continuing to grow in the developing markets like China and India where these are the fastest growing car parks and automotive refinish markets.
So yes it’s a competitive market we got a few large global players we don’t see that competitive intensity decreasing but we feel as PPG we’re well positioned and certainly maintaining our leadership in the industry.
If I can add just Chuck’s comments if you look at the technology in the marketplace everything is moving toward a water based technology.
I think from our observations we’re the leader in that technology both in the U.S.
and in Europe.
So I think we’re well positioned from a technology perspective as well.
Thank you.
And then I want to go back to Lowe's and just Lowe’s introduced this new HGTV brand.
And I know Olympic is at a lower price point.
But what is the risk that a person who walks into a Lowe store to buy Olympic paint could trade up to buy HGTV.
I mean do you see any possible impact there? P.
J.
I think it’s too early to speculate and I think Lowe’s would like to be the one comment on that.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of James Sheehan with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
On your architectural coatings sales in the US if you exclude the impact of the pipeline fills what would sales have done in percentage terms in the first quarter? James this is Vince.
So if you look we had good volume growth as Michael mentioned in the company owned stores and comparable growth in the independent distribution market and that was just offset with the – I will call it the negative year-over-year comps with respect to the pipeline fill.
The store – the sales in DIY were positive and at the door and we feel good about that going forward.
The other thing that was impactful for that business from a sales perspective was currency in Canada was negative we have a big Canadian business.
Volumes in Canada were positive but currency was negative.
So again we’re pleased with our performance to-date early in the seasons as Michael mentioned and we did our kind of a different weather pattern weaker in February stronger in March.
Okay.
And on your commercial construction comments on the glass business you have often talked about that flowing through into the coatings business over time.
Are you starting to see that pick up in coatings on the commercial construction side? Yes Jim this is Michael.
We’re starting to see that it's a little early because as you know glass goes in the building it’s generally can be anywhere from 12 to 18 months before the paint goes in and upon the size of the building.
So it's a little early but we certainly expect that to flow through as well.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of John Roberts with UBS.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon.
Frank does free cash flow get as impacted by foreign exchange as earnings? Or are there things you can do with working capital and capital spending some of the offsets in the free cash flow to sort of dampen out the foreign exchange on free cash? Yes we were irrespective of FX we're always looking at ways to improve working capital obviously Q1 is usually the weakest from a cash flow perspective as you build a little bit of working capital perhaps some of the payables from fourth quarter and build up over the working capital and where receivable as things pull up for second quarter.
But we do have initiatives underway and we've made a lot of progress in terms of reducing pass to receivables we have aggressive targets and try to streamline our inventory levels as well as complexity in each of our businesses during the year we’ll see progress more progress in the latter half of the year.
And then payables are in pretty good shape.
Yes you do see some impact on the translation but actually I think we're going to have adequate initiatives to offset and make some progress on the working capital and move through the year.
Okay.
And then just secondly is your strength in automotive OEM new wins as strong as the strength that you're currently seeing in the existing business? It's balanced between what you have in some markets where we did well such as Europe these are - I think - we’re seeing a ramp up of some of the customers that have been maybe most affected by this kind of long recession in Europe so that we’re customer based in Europe you don’t have as many new plants there.
So these are your traditional customers that are now starting to do a little better as we see this pick up in sales especially in some markets like Southern Europe where Fiat is starting to grow faster.
And in Asia and in China and India for example that's a combination of new wins but primarily these are new plants that are going in with global and domestic competitors both there and in India.
So I’d say that’s more of a combination of new plants and existing market growth.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Arun Viswanathan with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
I guess I just wanted to clarify first if you can give us some guidance on what interest expense would look like for the rest of the year with the euro refinancing.
Sure.
The interest expense was down and of course the numbers we gave was on a net basis went from $35 million to about $18 million in the first quarter as we look out through the rest of the year interest expense will be down between the $20 million to $25 million per quarter.
Our weighted average interest rate in our portfolio right now we've got debt about $4.6 million weighted average interest rate about 2.5%.
And Arun so we did refinance as we said on our press release and Chuck's comments in the fourth quarter we also did put in a $1.3 billion of debt in March.
So we had no interest cost for that in January February so there will be a step up in Q2 of $4 million to $5 million verse Q1 partially rated to that.
So mid-20s – mid to low 20s would be a good number on a go forward basis.
And that’s a net interest expense offset against interest income and the cash balances.
Okay.
Great thanks.
And then just taking that a step further you guys obviously have quite a bit of balance sheet flexibility here.
Can you give us a little update on the M&amp;A pipeline? I know you completed two in the first quarter.
Anything else look interesting maybe in industrial coatings in Europe right now? We have an active M&amp;A pipeline we don’t have any mega deals out there those don’t come along very often but we have some good discussions going on.
We announced the agreement although we have not closed yet on the French aerospace acquisition Le Joint Français or LJF from Total so that’s one that we are continuing to work and we hope to be able to close that in the second half of the year.
And we have some other deals that we’re currently discussing and we hope that we’ll be able to announce some things as we go through the year but it’s an active pipeline still we think good opportunities.
Great thanks.
And if I may just one more on the Comex opportunity.
Is there any way you could quantify the revenue opportunity now selling some of those legacy PPG products? Thanks.
Arun Vince again.
We’re suddenly working closely with the concessionaires on what products they like what products we’re actually selling in the market.
We really need to go through a paint season to fully understand the acceptance of the products and its different obviously by geographic region in Mexico so we do want to give some sidelines for you guys.
At some point it’s just too premature right now to do that.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Good afternoon and thanks for taking my question.
Industrial coatings revenues were down but profitability was up year-over-year.
Would you help us understand what happened there? Did you take some low-margin business out or did you take some costs out? Just curious as to how you achieved such a solid result.
This was productivity and we continued to perform well in the businesses that are in industrial coating so lot of cost down restructuring benefits from prior years and good growth of profitable business in our automotive OEM industrial coating segments.
And then Nils the 2% decline I think in sales revenue really was 7% negative currency 5% positive OEMs for the segment so that 5% volume dragging along nice incremental margin as we’ve talked about in the past for the reason Chuck just mentioned.
So I think that really hastened our improvement.
Yes understood.
Understood.
I guess last year Europe saw something like a 20% earnings growth on volumes that were starting to improve.
Now it sounds like in general you are becoming incrementally positive on the region some recovery.
Should we expect that type of -- or better type of earnings growth in Europe on a constant currency basis for 2015? Well I would say that remember we should still see earnings growth improvement in Europe primarily related to our industrial coating segment.
So we have not yet seen strong improvement on the construction side of or the performance coating side of the business.
But we think there will be some modest growth there and we’re obviously working on these restructuring actions that should help us late in the year.
And keep in mind too that any incremental volume should accretive to at a pretty nice margin closer to the PC margin than the EBIT margin because the fact that we’re still 15 to 20 percentage points below peak volumes so we don’t have to add much of anything in terms of fixed supply chain cost to get that volume and in fact we continue to find streamlining opportunities on the administrative side.
So any volume we do get – when we get in the commercial spaces on should accrue good margin.
Understood.
And just one more if I may.
I noticed in the commentary the $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion of potential cash deployment over the next 12 to 18 months was removed.
Was that deliberate? Although you had obviously highlighted continued cash deployment issues or goals -- so was that deliberate? Have you changed your view about how much cash will be deployed? The cash flow is still working as it did when we made that disclosure and that disclosure and guidance still does apply.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Thanks Nils.
Ladies and gentlemen we do have time for one final question.
Your final question comes from the line of Kevin Hocevar with Northcoast Research.
Please proceed.
Hey good afternoon everybody.
On the auto OEM side of things you continue to really significantly outperform the industry which seems to be the norm at this point.
So I'm wondering if you could comment on what's driving that.
I know technology has something to do with it.
Is the gap not closing between the competitors? Do you continue to innovate and they are not keeping up? Are you are aligned with the right customers? Wondered if you could just comment on that.
I think we’ve been – it’s a combination of both of those.
I think technology and service our performance with existing customers has gone extremely well with the new technologies.
We are the largest automotive OEM competitor in the space.
We have a broad geographic or global footprint.
So we’re able to I think deliver a value around the world whether you’re talking about North America or Europe or Asia or China any of those markets.
So I think we’ve been very well positioned both from a technology service and we have a very broad based customer – customer array.
And in China as an example we’ve seen both the global OEMs as well as the Chinese domestic players growing and we’ve been positioned on both sides of that so I think it’s a combination.
Okay.
And then just quickly on the US architectural paint business.
I noticed the independent dealer channel was up to mid-single-digits which is kind of strong for that channel.
So just wondering if you had any new business wins or it just happened to have a good quarter.
No we had no significant new business wins but I do think we got a fast start to the year.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Kevin.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Morales for closing remarks.
Thank you.
Once again I want to like to thank everybody for all of their interest in PPG and their time and attention.
If there is any further questions on financials please call me in Investor Relations function.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining today's conference.
That concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
And have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2015 PPG Industries earnings conference call.
My name is Chris and I will be your conference moderator for today.
[Operator Instructions] And at this time I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Vince Morales.
Sir you may proceed.
Thank you Chris and good afternoon everyone.
Again this is Vince Morales PPG's Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer.
We appreciate your continued interest in PPG Industries and welcome you to our second quarter 2015 financial results teleconference.
Joining me on the call from PPG today is Chuck Bunch Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Michael McGarry President and Chief Operating Officer; and Frank Sklarsky Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our comments relate to financial information released Thursday July 16 2015.
I will remind everyone that we posted detailed commentary and relating presentation slides on the Investor center of our website at www.ppg.com.
These slides are also available on the webcast site for this call and provide supplemental support to the opening comments Chuck will make shortly.
Following Chuck's perspective on the company's results for the quarter we will move to a extended Q&amp;A session.
Both the prepared commentary and discussion during this call may contain forward-looking statements reflecting the company's current view of future events and their potential effect on PPG's operating and financial performance.
These statements involve uncertainties and risks which may cause actual results to differ.
The company is under no obligation to provide subsequent updates to these forward-looking statements.
Today's presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The company has provided in the appendix materials of the presentation which are again available on our website reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
For additional information please refer to PPG's filings with the SEC.
And now let me introduce PPG's Chairman and CEO Chuck Bunch.
Thank you Vince and good afternoon everyone.
I want to thank you for your continued interest in PPG.
Today we reported record second quarter 2015 financial results.
This included record second quarter net sales of $4.1 billion and all-time record adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of $1.67.
Our adjusted earnings per share in the second quarter were up $0.25 or 18% versus the prior-year record.
Year-to-date our compounded adjusted EPS is up 20% over prior year which is on top our compounded EPS growth rate in the past three years of about 25%.
This consistent and continued performance reflects the benefits of our portfolio transformation the tangible customer benefits from our leading products and technologies our continued diligence on aggressive cost structure management and the measurable benefits from our ongoing cash deployment.
Overall I am pleased with our consistently strong financial performance as we continue to manage through inconsistent economic conditions in major global regions and in various end-use markets we supply.
In the second quarter our aggregate company sales volumes grew 1% year-over-year similar to the first quarter reflecting modest global economic growth.
Regionally in comparison with last quarter our growth rates improved in Europe and the U.S.
moderated in Asia and remained unfavorable in South America.
From a segment perspective we achieved all-time record segment income in both coating segments and our glass segment delivered the largest year-over-year earnings improvement.
This record business performance was despite significant currency translation impacts the sales and earnings stemming from weakened foreign currencies.
These currencies principally the euro as well as others in the Americas and in emerging regions unfavorably impacted our sales by about $320 million or more than 7% and reduced our pre-tax earnings by $40 million or about $0.11 per share.
Absent the foreign currency impacts our adjusted EPS would have been up 25% year-over-year.
Based on current foreign currency exchange rates we expect the unfavorable foreign currency translation impacts to moderate beginning in the third quarter as foreign currencies begin to weaken in the second half of 2014 and due to the seasonality of our businesses.
Given these factors we now expect currency translation to reduce our full year sales by $1 billion and pre-tax earnings by $100 million.
These ranges are slightly more favorable than our prior forecast as we lower the projected unfavorable currency translation impact on sales by about $100 million and on pre-tax earnings by about $10 million contributing to our record coating segment income in the quarter with volume growth in several of our businesses including automotive OEM packaging and automotive refinish coatings.
We grew at or above industry growth rates in these businesses driven by customer adoption of our leading technology.
In addition we have maintained our aggressive operational and cost focus as we achieved lower manufacturing and SG&amp;A cost year-over-year.
To that end we initiated an additional proactive restructuring plan targeting further system-wide productivity and cost reduction actions.
We anticipate full year savings from this program of $100 million to $105 million when fully implemented in 2017 with $15 million to $20 million of these savings expected in 2015.
Cash deployment was also a significant driver of segment income growth in the second quarter.
This includes sales and earnings from our recent acquisitions of Comex and several smaller companies.
Let me comment quickly on Comex.
We remain very excited about this acquisition.
The performance of the acquired business over the first eight months has been excellent.
Businesses sales grew organically by a high-single digit percentage in the quarter versus the prior-year pre-acquisition quarter and we remain on track for full year high-single digit percentage organic sales growth.
During the quarter we increased our initial Comex cost synergy targets and now expect to achieve $45 million to $50 million in annual run rate savings by the end of 2016.
In addition we announced new acquisition related revenue synergy targets which include capitalizing on the extensive Comex Mexican distribution platform for legacy PPG Industrial and Performance Coatings products and further leveraging the Comex and PPG participation in Central America simply stated both strategically and commercially Comex remains well ahead of our original expectation.
We also announced or closed several other acquisitions during the quarter.
In addition to acquisition spending we deployed $150 million of cash in the quarter for the repurchase of 1.3 million shares of PPG stock.
We remain committed to and on track with our previously announced earnings-accretive cash deployment targets.
Year-to-date we have closed or announced business acquisition with an aggregate purchase price of about $400 million and we repurchased $350 million of PPG stock.
Looking ahead we anticipate global economic growth to continue but to remain uneven.
We are working to continue to capitalize on the modest growth aided by our global footprint and participation across each of the major coatings product categories.
Additionally we anticipate increased financial benefits from a lower cost structure and higher earnings leverage on incremental volume growth.
In summary we once again delivered record financial performance in the quarter.
This performance was broad-based across segments and regions as customers continue to adopt our leading products and our strategy execution and cash deployment are yielding benefit.
We remain focused on operational execution and aggressive on cost management.
Finally we expect disciplined earnings-accretive cash deployment to continue.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Once again we appreciate your interest in PPG.
And now operator would you please open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Chuck just on the gross margin in the quarter can you talk about the year-over-year growth maybe I had a little bit higher assumption I know a lot of things go into it.
But talking about the benefit you see from raw materials and should we see a bigger gross margin expansion in Q3 versus Q2? Well as we stated David volume growth has still been muted.
We are still seeing positive growth across the regions and businesses but as we've talked we have some uneven performance across both regions and businesses.
So volume growth has not been as high as a full economic expansion would deliver.
The raw material cost as we've stated are modestly lower than the previous year.
So we're talking about low-to-mid single-digit decreases depending on regions.
And combined with other cost inflation and modest volume growth we're seeing accretion in margins across all our segments.
So we're pleased with the performance but again we're looking for a little more consistent economic performance and currency stabilization to deliver higher volume growth as we go through the year.
And Chuck just on there has been some discussion over China auto decline rate that that market is slowing.
Discuss your exposure both in China as well as via exports to the China auto OEM coatings market? Well China it's the largest automotive OEM market in the world.
The builds are still expected to be over 20 million this year and have growth.
We've seen over -- certainly the first quarter we were talking about 7%-plus kind of growth rates for the full year and we saw that in the first quarter.
We saw those growth rates moderate a little bit here as we went through the second quarter.
So now as we look at some of the forecast for the full year we're still looking for solid volume growth in builds in China but more in the area of 3% to 5% maybe not at that 7% level that we came into the year with.
We continued as you know to outperform in terms of volume growth and we're still optimistic globally on the automotive OEM market.
We've seen a very solid performance here in North America continued strength.
And we are also seeing especially in Western Europe as part of our EMEA region we've seen a return to growth here in the first half.
And we expect that trend to continue in the second half of this year.
So we remain optimistic and quite positive on the global OEM automotive market even if we have pockets out there like Brazil or Russia where we've seen lower builds here in 2015.
The next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo Securities.
Good afternoon gentlemen and I guess congratulations are in order.
Congratulations Michael on the move up; and congratulations Chuck on the pending retirement and obviously a hell of a decade run as CEO; and of course Vince congratulations on your recent promotion; and Frank congratulations on these results.
I think I pretty much covered everything there.
One of the things in looking through the release that I didn't see was any mention of weather impacts on your North American architectural coatings business.
Did you notice any material impact due to the above-normal wet weather? And what impact may that have come Q3 Q4? First of all appreciated.
Second Chuck is not going anywhere.
So don't be so quick about that comment.
I would tell you that overall the performance in architectural you saw our comments about low-single digits.
We do have some impact from weather it would be highly speculative for us to try and tell you how much that was.
We were pleased.
Our DIY business did have a good quarter.
And I would tell you that at this point hopefully things from a weather standpoint will get better.
But we do run a global architectural business and I tell our team whether you might have challenges in one area you probably have opportunities in the other.
So all-in-all I'm pleased.
And also staying with the North America you mentioned packaging was a fast grower auto OEM was among the faster growers.
But auto refinish was also mentioned as getting strong growth.
Can you talk a little bit more about what you're seeing there? What's driving that and where do we go from here? Well Frank I'll take that and I think one of the key indicators for growth in the automotive refinish business is miles driven.
And so we had I think with these lower gasoline prices here and around the world especially in North America you are getting higher miles driven and that is helping this business.
We also had some of this weather that if we talk about it in the first quarter we had severe winter; the second quarter some of this rainy weather it will drive additional economic growth.
And our business has continued to perform very well across all of the different distribution channels and collision shops.
Our team especially with the water-based technologies and those continuing conversion rates where we feel that we have industry-leading technology that continue to drive our growth in the business and help us maintain a leading position.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Chuck I wanted to ask a little more and you have a chart in there that Vince and team put together showing the volume changes sequentially you saw for the last year-and-a-half and maybe the Latin American piece in particular is really quite jarring.
Do you think this is a one-off issue? Are there particular end-markets that maybe went to the stinker here? And what's the outlook as you look forward for volume in those emerging markets? Well we have I would say in this chart if you look at the deceleration of some of the growth I have mentioned a couple of the markets that were unfavorable.
So all of South America including Brazil was unfavorable in terms of volume and several other emerging markets.
And I gave the example of Russia as an example where we saw a contraction here in the first half of the year.
I would say that our volumes in China and India continue to be positive.
Although we have seen with this discussion on automotive OEM and a few of the other industrial markets we've seen positive volumes in China but certainly not at the level that we had last year.
So I would attribute this more to the negative growth in a couple of emerging regions but China was also lower overall especially on the industrial and construction related side.
And you had mentioned some changes in raw materials.
I was wondering if you could talk about what's gone in pricing.
Are there any extremes in your pricing or is generally flat pretty accurate across the entire portfolio? This is pricing of the raw materials we buy or the pricing on our end-use markets? Yes I guess I'm more curious about your big tough mean procurement guys on the customer side seeing what's happened in deflation and maybe asking for their pound of flesh? Well as we've talked we're trying to make sure that we're getting the benefit of any raw material declines here in our coatings raw material space.
As I mentioned cost overall have come down in raw material cost.
And we continue to have these dialogs because as we went through the second quarter what was happening is we had oil prices coming back up as we started the second quarter and moved through.
But recently over the last few weeks to a month we've seen now those trends reversing.
So we continue in active discussion with our raw material suppliers.
We expect them to share that throughout their value or customer chain.
So we're looking for benefits to continue and potentially get a little stronger as we go into the second half of the year.
And Bob our selling prices to our customers as you saw in our presentation materials we've had flat selling prices which was our base case coming into the year.
There wasn't much on the way either side of that for any big customer group or any big business differential.
So flat pricing is what we predicted and it's pretty holistic through our portfolio.
Our next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W.
Baird.
It's actually Mehul Dalia sitting in for Ghansham.
In packaging would you say growth momentum has accelerated for you? And do you have any customer feedback that you can share on your non-BPA offering as it relates to Europe? Our packaging business continues to accelerate with wins both in the U.S.
as well as Europe.
And it's being driven by our new technologies or our BPA-free technologies.
And the customers are quite pleased with the new technology as we roll it out.
And what do you estimate the market growth was in Mexico year-to-date? And can you split your Comex sales growth between comparable stores versus maybe new stores by concessionaires year-to-date? Sure.
Let me just tackle Mexico.
So the GDP in Mexico has decline moderately.
It's closer to 2% range versus where they originally had it closer to 3%.
Our business as you saw in the commentary growing high-single digits.
We've opened up 80 new concessionaire locations already.
For the first six months we have a target to open up a 170 locations.
So we are certainly growing quicker than the market.
We've also launched some new products that we think will also be very favorably received in the marketplace.
And then in Central America we've launched Glidden in a number of locations in Central America that has also been favorably received.
So we're happy with what we see there.
And just one last one in the release you called out early 2Q weakness in Industrial Coatings.
What do you think was behind that? And how are volumes in Industrial Coatings as a whole trending in 3Q thus far? So the biggest challenge in Industrial is the heavy-duty equipment market.
I think we called out that it's a down low-double digit so that's a challenge.
I would say the rest of the business is doing relatively well but that's an area that we're paying close attention to.
Our next question comes from the line of PJ Juvekar with Citi.
A question on your Lowe's business.
As HGTV paint was introduced by Sherwin has that had an impact on your sales at Lowe's? PJ as you know it's difficult for us to comment about a specific customer like that.
We did call out that we had positive low-single digit comps in DIY segment.
We have very strong relationships with all our DIY customers and I would say there were no surprises in the second quarter.
And then Henan Billions is producing chloride TiO2 that's based on your technology but I guess there are some reports that people are saying that maybe that technology is not working as well as people thought and the plant is not running at full rates.
I was just wondering if you could give us some color on that.
I'm not sure where that's originating.
I'll just tell what we know.
The plant is mechanically complete.
All phases of the plant have been operational.
We have samples from the plant and both in China as well as in the U.S.
We are fully working with them.
We think the plant will be producing regular commercial grades sometime late in the second half of the year and I would tell you we're on target with everything we've projected so far.
Our next question comes from the line of Arun Viswanathan.
I wanted to I guess delve into the North American architectural business a little bit more.
You cited low-single digits but weakness in the dealer channel.
So was your stores business up mid-single digits? And are you starting to see some benefits of the overhaul and restructuring over the last couple of years and potentially some share gains? Arun I would tell you that our stores were in the low-single digits.
The dealers in the first quarter were up and in the second quarter were slightly down.
So through the first six months the dealers are actually positive.
We're doing slightly better than that in Canada.
And I would just say that we certainly don't want to spend a lot of time talking about the weather but it certainly was not helpful at all.
Arun the dealer channel is our smallest channel so on a averaging affect it has the smallest impact on the total business.
And what about the share gains any thoughts on if that could continue or if you could saw any of that or how do you look at the contractor channel? I mean are you guys getting any uplift there? I don't think there's many meaningful shares change in that regard.
And then final follow-up I guess in Europe you had some comments that you did see some slightly better sequential improvement in architectural.
Maybe you can just help us understand what's going on there and then also in your Industrial businesses in Europe? So starting with architectural France is our largest market so our retail business in France has now positive comps.
However our larger trade business has negative comps but much less so it's getting back almost near flat now.
Strong performance in the U.K.
and Ireland and although the Benelux was flat in Q2 we did see a noticeable pickups earning in late May.
So I would say that's good.
Central Europe was also had solid growth.
As far as the industrial businesses we've already talked about automotive doing better than the builds.
So that was the positive comp force.
And anything else on general industrial in Europe? General industrial I would call that relatively flat to no significant positives or negatives that I would call out.
Our next question comes from the line of Nils Wallin.
You noted strength in protective and marine globally but obviously also you saw some gains too in the U.S.
so it's kind of a two-part question.
Since you didn't break out it between protective and marine is it right to assume that it's mainly coming from the protective side? And then the second part unfortunately a weather question is how is it doing so well in North America given the weather impact that probably had some negative comps for you? On the protective side yes there is more wins on the protective side than the marine side but our China business did very well on the marine side so a nice win there.
Overall in the U.S.
and Canada good strong wins on the protective side.
Also I would tell you we have launched a number of new what we call advantage products and fire protection as well as we did the Hi-Temp Coatings acquisition earlier this year that has also driven some growth.
We've been able to leverage that globally as well.
And so overall even though the oil business is down net-net we are up in that segment so we're pleased with how we're performing in that regard.
And Nils the only thing I would add to that is Europe also had a decent performance.
There is some additional dry-dock work taking place in some of the ports in Europe so that had some sequential and year-over-year improvement too.
And just more I guess a question for Frank.
It sounds like this year you've already done around $750 million or so in the cash deployment.
Does that mean that $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion you're halfway there or is this $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion you're talking about incremental to the $750 million you've already done so far? We still want to maintain that guidance of $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion for 2015 and 2016 combined.
I guess what we would say is we've closed or announced $400 million in acquisition so far there's still additional pipeline there so I anticipate more activity over the next 18 months.
I've done $350 million of share repurchase so as you say kind of closed announced or repurchased $750 million the guidance we would give is the overall guidance is still in place what we would have expected that at a minimum to achieve at least that midpoint of that guidance for the two-year period so we're very comfortable with where we are.
Continued good pipeline in the M&amp;A space and also that share of purchase will continue to be part of our capital cash allocation strategy so we're pretty comfortable with the guidance and off to a good start on that.
And just sorry if I may is the pipeline levered or exposed to any particular market more than any other? There are variety of opportunities across the regions and across our portfolios as you can see with some of the things we did the closed or announced so far this year it runs the gamut between our various businesses and its taken place in a couple of different region so we have a pipeline that really spans the globe and spans the different segments.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
I'm sort of surprised that your gross margins aren't higher in that your cost of goods sold is down about 1% for the year in the quarter.
And you would think that with your raw materials down low-to-mid-single digits you would be doing better than that.
And if you compare your results to your Cleveland competitor I think their gross margin expanded 250 basis points.
And even if you make some adjustments for acquisitions and you go back a year you still see a much larger gross margin progression.
Is that the right way to look at it? Are there advantages to being in North America? And if you are more global you have some impediments? Are you satisfied with your gross margin? I think from our perspective we're trying to drive continuous improvement in all of our financial metrics.
This year unlike most years we have a lot of puts and takes in our numbers.
We have a very large acquisition.
We have a lot of currency differences on both sales as well as cost of sales.
You alluded to some changes in raw materials.
So we've got a lot of puts and takes so I don't know that in comparison year-over-year gets really difficult without each of those buckets.
And we're not displeased with our performance.
We'd certainly like to be as profitable as possible but we do feel that we're executing very well operationally as well commercially on the sales front.
And I think if you look at the what we call our EBIT margins EBITDA margin as we all refer to it for the business overall we'd like to focus on that ROS that business operating ROS.
And if you look at it that way we're over 150 basis points better Q2 over Q2.
It's really a combination of a number of factors whether it'd be all the inputs and the cost of goods sold some favorable and of course we do have some annual modest improvements in salary and in wages across the globe.
So good manufacturing productivity improvement G&amp;A improvements some benefits from the acquisitions that we've done as well as some currency headwinds that Vince referred to.
But overall when you look at the overall ROS for the business a nice improvement and there are some puts and takes between COGS and SG&amp;A but on balance pretty pleased with the improvement.
And then secondly last year in the first half your North American business was maybe up in order of magnitude 5% and this year it's roughly flat.
What is it about North America this year that's so much weaker than North America last year in the first half? I think Jeff you have a continued improvement of automotive OEM but not at the same acceleration.
It continues to be positive.
So that is one of the businesses continued growing but not at overall 5% level.
The other as we talked in the release Jeff general industrial was much more benign this year than it was last year.
And we did as we this is a Q1 comp math so we did have some architectural pipeline fills last year for new product wins last year that we're maintaining this year.
But the pipeline fills or stocking for our customers did not recur.
So do you think this is a 1% volume year for PPG or do you think that you can do -- are business conditions improving or are they sort of steady-state? I would say the businesses are steady-state.
There is still positive economic growth here.
We have talked about some of the weakness in the overall market in architectural due to some weather events here in actually the first half not just the rain in the second quarter whereas most of the underlying economic indicators are still positives.
So we have maintained a positive outlook for the second half of the year and I think you'll see continued volume growth from last year in the U.S.
and Canadian region.
Remember Jeff there is one other minor factor too and it's in the Glass business which is impacting that 1% of that effectively sold our Mt.
Zion facility whereas you can see that the mix is greatly improving our business.
So even though the volume and the topline is lower in that business the profitability is greatly improved.
So yes that was not a huge factor but a factor contributing to that year-over-year change in the growth rate.
Our next question comes from the line of John Roberts with UBS.
Frank you just mentioned the Glass business.
And again the volume was down due to the plant closing but it didn't seem to be affected much by weather.
And given that's a U.S.
OEM construction business I would've thought it would be one of the most affected businesses by weather? Well again we're running at decent utilization levels so profitability greatly improved; one plant coming out of the system mix is improved and as with commercial construction still not at back to levels pre-financial crisis.
So very optimistic about the way that this looks for the rest of the year and looking forward if we can get continued improvement on the commercial side that business will continue to perform well.
Not as sensitive -- Not as sensitive John to whether its paint is you'd still put up glass in like all inclement weather.
Actually could you give us a little granularity on the auto OEM paint strengths either is it largely more new wins or is it better sell-through of previous wins? Or any regional color that you can give us on the outperformance now? Well we've continued to do well in our regions here and in the greater Europe as well as Asia.
I would say that either it is more overall market growth which has continued.
In Europe especially in Western Europe you've seen growth of what we would call some of our customer base especially among a broader base of the European manufacturers than we have been seeing over the last few years and we have a good exposure across all of the manufacturers in Europe.
So we're seeing some improvement in some of those European based manufacturers the French and Italian manufacturers in particular they've had a better performance.
And in China I would say there we continue to win more than our share of new plant startups in China especially and so that's where we've continued to outperform the market.
And that is more technology driven.
The new compact processes that we've talked about over the last few years.
The Chinese market both the domestic manufacturers and the global manufacturers in China are starting new plans with the most modern technologies of today.
And this is where we are best positioned.
Our next question comes from the line of James Sheehan with SunTrust Robinson and Humphrey.
I was just wondering about the slowdown that's occurring in emerging markets.
Do you expect this to impact growth in aerospace in the near and medium term? I don't think that's going to have a material impact.
Certainly the general aviation market isn't help by the challenges in Russia or China; two markets that we're starting to emerge to buy general aviation planes.
But overall the aviation industry is doing quite well.
In fact they're returning their cost to capital.
Right now their profitability is up and people are traveling.
So I would say that it's not going to be a material impact.
We also did see a decent growth in Asia-Pacific region aerospace in the second quarter.
In addition to that one of the things that's up-up continued to drive outperform are some of the new technologies that we are deploying out to some of the major aircraft manufacturers.
And I would add for a final comment that we do another acquisition that closed July 1 Cuming Microwave.
It's a business does classified defense products for radar-evading for both airplanes and as well as land vehicles.
And that would be a contributor to the business in the third quarter as well.
You noted some positive impact from working capital in the second quarter.
Can you just comment on where you see working capital in the second half? We continue to focus in on a couple of key areas.
One past-due receivables we're making some good progress there but more importantly in the area of supply chain efficiency and inventories.
However we saw several days improvement on the Performance Coatings space in the first half.
And we have some additional improvements that we have targeted for the back half of the year.
So I think it's safe to assume that we'll continue progress that we've made I think in the back half of the year.
And expect that to continue to improve because we still know there's a little bit more in terms of number of days in the cash conversion cycle that we can improve on as compared to peer group.
Jim we've had consecutive years of 100 basis point improvement in our operating working capital.
And that's our target again this year.
We're made some improvement but we're not where we want to be by yearend.
Our next question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Just one question for me would you mind breaking out the FX impact to gross margins in the quarter? Well we have -- from an FX perspective we had $40 million of negative EBIT in the quarter pre-tax EBIT.
And most of that's going to be in the COGS line.
There's some offset in the G&amp;A line within the regions but since we make most of the product where we deliver it the vast majority of that impact that $40 million to the bottomline is going to be in the COGS.
Our next question comes from the line of Mr.
Don Carson.
Just going back to FX and sort of the interplay with ROS so FX is about $0.25 year-to-date if I add up the first two quarters are you still thinking it's going to slow down in the second quarter and maybe be $0.35 $0.40? And from a ROS standpoint you had mentioned in first quarter you didn't see much ROS benefit as you worked down high cost inventories.
What benefit did you see in the second quarter? And as that accelerates in the second half what sort of multiple would you expect that to be of the FX hit? So Don just sticking with the currency translation we had our biggest impact we believe in Q2 for multiple reasons.
One it's our highest quarter seasonally especially in architectural Europe.
And secondarily the currency rates began to weaken last year the euro began to weaken last year dollar currencies in Q3 so if you will the comps currency-wise are bit easier in Q3.
Seasonality is the bigger factor there.
So we do expect moderation from the second quarter level in the back half of the year and in Q4 the euro was markedly down versus Q3 last year.
So again weakening euro and other currencies last year give us reason for moderation going into the back half of this year.
Frank I don't know if you wanted that or comment on that as well? I mean that's under the assumptions that the rate stay where they were at the end of Q2.
They weakened a little bit this morning based on some of the news out of Europe.
But under the assumption that they stay where they are we expect sequentially an improvement both in Q3 and Q4.
And on your raw material question I think Chuck mentioned earlier that we saw some benefit in Q1.
That benefit expanded a little bit in Q2 and we expect a modestly improved benefit in Q3 and Q4.
Then just a follow-up on acquisitions.
What sort of in the average EBITDA that you've been paying? And how has that changed over the last year are you seeing more competition for these properties and thus higher purchase multiples? Well I would say that the purchase multiples for our deals they do vary depending on growth rates region performance of the business.
I would say that on average this year we have not paid at the same level as we paid last year.
As an example we did pay as you know the announced multiple of around 11 for Comex pre-synergies.
And these are smaller deals in various regions.
So I would say the multiples are around the same over the last 18 moths or so.
I think it's again somewhat dependent on where we finished I mean the types of deals and what are the quality and the size of the businesses.
Our next question comes from the line of Eugene Fedotoff with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your European volumes were up 2% year-over-year.
And in the past you sort of commented on incremental profits or incremental margins for Europe given that you took some cost out there in the past couple of years.
I was wondering if you can provide similar color for this quarter.
We're still holding to the general guideline that incrementals on European volume in the 30% to 40% range.
That's really because of plenty of headroom in terms of the manufacturing capacity and not only steady but generally reduced SG&amp;A as we complete our restructuring program around the globe.
So that 30% 40% is still a pretty good rule of thumb.
And then just a follow-up on the protective coatings in North America.
I don't know what your exposure is like if it's significant probably not to the I guess oilfield market or are you seeing any decline in the served markets due to the lower oil prices in North America and globally? Yes certainly the oil market is softer but the beauty is that we've been able to capture share in that segment and that has been a positive for us overall.
We do see oil weakness in Columbia Mexico Russia some other places as well but net-net this has been a good market for us.
And just a last follow-up on Comex sales growth high-single digit in the quarter and year-to-date.
So it sounds like you should be or is that the right expectation you should be towards the higher end of your mid-to-high single-digit sales growth guidance? I'm sorry.
Could you repeat the question? I'm sorry.
Sure.
Given high-single digits and Comex sales so far I believe you said you expected sales to grow mid-to-high single-digits for 2015.
So is it fair to assume that it's likely going to be at the high-end of that guidance? I would tell you that historically what we told we will grow 1.5x and 2x GDP.
We are outperforming that right now.
I'm comfortable that the team will continue to perform at the upper end of that guidance.
And just as a reminder for everybody the seasonality of the Comex business architectural Comex business is a little different than the seasonality of our U.S.
and Canadian businesses.
For us what we said is Comex is about 20% in Q1 25% in Q2 Q3 and 30% in Q4 in terms of their sales phasing.
And that again is different than U.S./Canada business and Western European business we have.
Our next question comes from the line of Christopher Perrella with Bloomberg.
A question on the China business.
With Asian or Asian volumes mixed but up were there any end-markets where you saw declining volumes in the quarter over in Asia? Could you repeat the question? Were volumes down in any particular coatings end-markets in Asia in the quarter? Coatings end-markets heavy-duty equipment in our industrial business was down as we alluded to.
Electronics again in our general industrial business was flattish.
Those would be two markets that were on kind of the weaker side of the spectrum.
And what was packaging demand in Asia for you guys in the quarter? Was it up in line with the market or below market growth? Every one of our businesses was up in mid-to-high single digits.
Every one of them feed into packaging in the market.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Reitzes with Broad Arch Capital.
Just trying to piece everything together.
I want to ask a question.
It sounds to me like Europe is going to be better in the third quarter U.S.
should be at least where it is or maybe a little better and Asia will be better but at a less of a growth rate.
Is that what I heard you guys say? That's the first part of my question.
I think that's a fair characterization.
And the second part is that currency will not hurt you as much in the third and fourth quarters as it did in the past.
So maybe you got a little bit of a tailwind even though currency was still hard but you get maybe a little bit of a tailwind from currency moderation is that fair? It will still be a headwind in absolute terms on a year-over-year basis but less so than it was in Q2.
So Q2 is the peak headwind Q3 a less so and Q4 will be less so just based on the sequential year-over-year comparisons based on the euro.
And of course that also depends on the fact that currency stay by where they were or they are now.
If it continues too weaken significantly it will be more of a headwind.
But we still think that overall Q2 will be a peak quarter and it will improve sequentially after that.
So when you take a look at the one other business that people have been nervous about and it sounds to me like Chuck was more optimistic is that people have been a little bit more nervous about auto sales in China or auto builds.
It sounds to me even though you're looking for less growth you're still looking for 3 to 5 instead of 7 in China in the back half of the year is that also fair? I think for the full year we're looking at mid-single digit so certainly down from 7 right now.
3 to 5 for the year we think is good.
And we've seen a few blips in Chinese market over the last few years but we think it will still be positive for this year.
And one last question just putting the whole thing together.
Do you think if where you are today versus where you were in the beginning of the year is Europe where you thought it was better or worse? Just making sure we understood the question Bob.
You said Europe? At the beginning of the year when you were looking at your forecast for Europe or what you thought the tone of business was you had a view then.
Right now is your view that business is better than what you thought in the beginning of the year worse or about as you thought at the beginning of the year? Well I would say on balance it's slightly better.
It is better in automotive OEM and actually there was some improvement in automotive refinish.
It's the construction markets especially the big one we have in France have really not started to move.
So I guess maybe that's meeting our expectations.
But net-net I would say the automotive business is a little bit better.
And as we've seen here in the recovery in North America since the great recession it was really led by the automotive business.
So now I'm a little more positive as they have a weaker currency lower oil prices a lot of quantitative easing.
So we're net-net more optimistic about Europe.
But the businesses we're seeing the most tangible improvement are the automotive.
Our next question comes from the line of the Dmitry Silversteyn with Longbow Research.
A lot of my questions have been answered already.
But I'd just like to follow-up on a couple of points if I may.
First of all getting back to the raw material pricing and the discussion that you've offered in the answer to the previous question about [technical difficulty] coming back and maybe asking you to share in some of the bounty that you're seeing on the raw materials side.
It didn't sound like that was something we should expect in the second half of the year.
If we assume that raw materials sort of stay at these levels and oil prices stay at these levels is it likely that pressure from customers is going to get more intense in the industrial markets in 2016? Or do you still expect to sort of operate in the benign environment where you get to keep all the benefit you have realized to date on the raw material prices? We'll certainly I can add that we don't anticipate that we will keep all of the benefits.
And typically as we've discussed whether prices on the way up or on the way down we usually wait for a quarter or two as these things settle out and we fully realize either the impact of raw materials on up or downside.
And those are usually shared through the value chain or supply chain with our customers.
So we're in regular dialog now with the suppliers and with the customers.
So we do not expect that we would keep all of the benefits from a raw material changes.
Again Dmitry our raw materials are down modestly low-single digits so just to be clear on that number.
And there are other factors that go into our pricing too like different kinds of value-added formulations new products for our customers as well as there are other cost inputs associated with labor and other non-labor items.
So overall as Vince said before a flattish environment overall for pricing that was the case in the previous couple of quarters.
We expect that for the rest of this year and probably into first half of next year.
I'm going to get in the 10-Q but just for modeling purposes can you update us on what the CapEx spend was in the quarter or for the six months? We had in our presentation materials total for the year about $160 million with about $90 million in Q2.
And then just sort of a general question.
You talk about the incremental leverage that you'll be able to obtain after having the cost particularly in Europe but also in other geographies as you've integrated acquisitions and took capacity out and rationalize your footprint and so on.
I guess my question is I am not growing 22% volume how do you actually drive margin in your business as to a higher level? I understand incremental margin but you need volume to get it.
So if you're growing at 1% to 2% it's not going to be enough for you to drive the margin to generate earnings growth of mid-teens let's say? Dmitry just to make sure I want to make sure I spoke correctly.
So our cap spending year-to-date was $160 million.
$160 million and $90 million in the quarter I got it.
I just want to make sure of that.
I apologize for interrupting you.
I want to make sure that was clear.
But in terms of our driving incremental margin profitability I think we continue to look for ways to be aggressive with our cost.
We continue to identify opportunity as we integrate these acquisitions and we're typically bringing in lower than our operating margin or EBIT margin.
And we continue to look for synergistic opportunities across our portfolio of businesses in terms of sales.
So those are all -- again we do have a challenging environment in certain markets but we typically look for other opportunities to make sure we're maximizing our profitability with things we control.
And again along with the working capital improvement there are also efforts underway to improve the efficiency of the supply chain.
So the supply chain efficiency there is manufacturing productivity there is SG&amp;A improvement associated with the restructuring program as well as the volume leverage we get from any incremental volume.
And then final question and I guess that that's sort of revisiting maybe a question that was asked earlier.
But at the beginning of the year you talked about a scenario of kind of slower first half of the year for European markets and then a pickup in the second half of the year as the benefit from inflation of the currency and/or energy costs and things like that.
Your European businesses in the first half I think did a little bit better than that.
Is your expectation for the second half of the year equally bullish sort of less bullish? Are you seeing [technical difficulty] more confidence and demand or is it a little bit less bullish? Well Dmitry you've been breaking up a little bit on the connection here.
But I'd say we feel here we talked maybe with a question from Bob Reitzes we talked about Europe being a little bit better than our expectations especially in automotive.
Here in North America we do feel I think about the same in terms of the positive outlooks that we're seeing in automotive and the construction markets.
As weather held that back we're looking at maybe some interest rate increases the impact of the strong dollar and the weakness in the oil and gas sector here in the North America.
I think overall it's probably helping us a little on the raw material side.
But I would say North America is certainly not exceeding the expectations that we went into the year with some areas a little bit better.
So I'd say it's consistent but I would say that we and I in particular probably felt that lower oil and gasoline prices were going to be more of a stimulant for the economy.
And I think we've seen a little bit of improvement in consumer confidence but I wouldn't say from a retail sales level or other areas of GDP and we've seen an out performance as a result of lower oil and gasoline prices.
So I would say it's about where do we thought it would be.
We have no further questions at this time.
I will now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Morales for any closing remarks.
End of Q&amp;A Thank you Chris.
Just want to thank everybody once again for their interest in PPG.
And we'll be available on the Investor Relations department for any further follow-up.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentleman that conclude today's conference.
Thank you so much for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter PPG Industries Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jasmine and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Vince Morales.
Please proceed.
Thank you Jasmine.
Welcome everybody.
This is Vince Morales PPG’s Vice President Investor Relations and Treasurer.
We appreciate your continued interest in PPG and welcome you to this teleconference to review our third quarter 2015 financial results.
Joining me on the call today from PPG is Michael McGarry President and Chief Executive Officer and Frank Sklarsky Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our comments relate to the financial information we released on Thursday October 15 2015.
I will remind everybody that we posted detailed commentary and accompanying presentation slides on our Investor Center at ppg.com.
The slides are also available on the webcast site for this call and they provide additional support to the opening comments Michael will make momentarily.
Following Michael’s perspective on the company’s results for the quarter we will move to the Q&amp;A session.
Both the prepared commentary and the discussion on the Q&amp;A may contain forward-looking statements reflecting the company’s current view of future events and their potential effect on PPG’s operating and financial performance.
These statements may involve uncertainties and risks which may cause actual results to differ.
The company is under no obligation to provide subsequent updates to these forward-looking statements.
This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The company has provided in the appendix of the presentation materials which again are available in our website reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
For any additional information please refer to PPG’s filings with the SEC.
And now let me introduce PPG’s President and Chief Executive Officer Michael McGarry.
Thank you Vince and good afternoon everyone.
I want to thank you for your continued interest in PPG.
Today we have reported our third quarter 2015 financial results.
Our results included third quarter net sales of $3.8 billion and third quarter record adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of $1.61.
Our adjusted earnings per share in the third quarter were up $0.20 or 14% versus the prior record quarter.
Our continued strong performance was achieved despite unfavorable foreign currency translation impacts which were larger than originally anticipated due to further weakening of emerging region currencies during the quarter.
We more than offset the currency headwind with continued benefits from our acquisitions including consistently strong performance of Comex ongoing and aggressive actions that further reduce our overall cost and continued cash deployment.
Overall we performed well this quarter against a more dynamic and uneven economic backdrop.
We have continued to deliver solid compounded adjusted EPS growth as a company including over 20% in the last 3 years.
This consistent performance is a tangible measurement of our global coatings business platform our ability to innovate and commercialize customer-driven products and technologies and our continued aggressive cost management.
Additionally we continue to benefit from disciplined earnings accretive cash deployment.
Our third quarter sales volume declined by less than 1% year-over-year down slightly versus our second quarter performance.
The lower results reflect overall moderation of global economic growth during the quarter and transitory customer inventory management.
Our Industrial Coatings segment grew volumes supported by continued automotive OEM volume growth in all major regions.
We delivered higher volumes in Asia despite lower industry production in China.
Also growth continued in Europe and North America supported by growing demand in these regions.
Additionally we continue to benefit from initial industry adoption of our new can coating technologies and our packaging coatings business.
We are in early stages of an industry-wide technology conversion and we have demonstrated excellent progress in securing an initial leadership position during this once in a multi-decade industry conversion.
Within the industrial segment growth was partially offset by slight volume declines in our industrial coatings and specialty coatings and materials businesses.
A result similar to prior sequential quarter as overall general industrial demand remains tepid in all major regions.
Performance coating sales declined – volumes declined due to lower architectural coatings demand stemming from a weaker Canadian economy coupled with inventory management by most of our U.S.
and Canadian national retail customers approaching the tail end of a modest painting season.
Overall architectural coatings industry demand was modest in the third quarter following a weaker than anticipated second quarter due to poor painting weather conditions.
So essentially we do not experience a large-scale snapback in the quarter.
This left most of our large national retail customers and independent distributors with high inventories as we began to wind down the paint season.
So their late third quarter order patterns were reduced commensurately.
Volumes in our other performance coatings businesses were up slightly.
Regionally for the company higher volumes were achieved in Europe with growth trends slightly ahead of the previous quarter as we continue to see broader but still modestly incremental improvement in the region.
Year-over-year volumes grew in Asia as well.
China volumes were soft early in the quarter including customer inventory management but stabilized with demand improvement later in the quarter.
Volumes in the U.S.
and Canadian markets were lower year-over-year primarily due to architectural coatings customer inventory management.
Mexican volumes excluding acquisition-related benefits remain very solid while South American demand weakened in comparison to previous sequential quarter and year-over-year.
As I mentioned we incurred notable unfavorable currency translation impacts to sales and earnings stemming from weakened foreign currencies.
These currencies primarily the euro unfavorably impacted our sales by about $310 million or about 8% and reduced our pre-tax earnings by about $45 million or $0.12 per share.
Absent the foreign currency impacts our adjusted earnings per share would have been up over 20% year-over-year.
Based on current foreign currency exchange rates we expect the unfavorable foreign currency translation impacts to moderate somewhat in the fourth quarter as foreign currencies began to weaken in the second half of 2014 and do the seasonality of our businesses.
Given these factors we now expect currency translation to reduce our full year sales by about $1.1 billion and pre-tax earnings by about $120 million to $130 million.
This range is slightly unfavorable to the forecast that we provided during our second quarter earnings conference call with most of the change already recognized in our third quarter results.
As you would expect from PPG we have maintained our aggressive operational and cost focus as we achieve lower manufacturing and SG&amp;A cost in comparison to last year.
Our year-over-year SG&amp;A cost as a percentage of sales were down about 100 basis points during the third quarter.
We continue to execute on our previously announced restructuring plan and anticipate full year savings from this program of $100 million to $105 million when fully implemented in 2017 with $15 million to $20 million of these savings expected in 2015.
Cash deployment was also a significant factor of segment income growth in the third quarter.
This included sales and earnings from our recent acquisitions including Comex and several smaller companies.
Since the end of the second quarter we closed on Cuming Microwave Chemfil Canada IVC Industrial Coatings and Le Joint Francais our abbreviated LJF.
We will benefit from these transactions in the fourth quarter.
In addition to acquisition spending we deployed $150 million of cash in the quarter for the purchase of 1.5 million shares of PPG stock.
And our repurchase pace year-to-date is ahead of last year.
We remain committed to accretive – earnings accretive cash deployment.
And year-to-date we have spent $900 million in this regard.
Including six business acquisitions with an aggregate purchase price of over $400 million coupled with $500 million of stock repurchases.
We had previously announced a cash deployment target of $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion focused on acquisitions and share repurchases for the combined calendar year 2015 and 2016.
We have now narrowed the range and are targeting at least $2 billion to $2.5 billion over that time period.
Looking ahead we anticipate a resumption of PPG volume growth in the fourth quarter supported by global economic growth the absence of customer inventory management and the benefit of including Comex in our organic figures following the acquisition anniversary in November.
Lastly we continue to have a variety of PPG specific earnings drivers that are not directly tied to the pace of the economy most of which I have already spoken about.
In summary these include the benefits of completing our restructuring actions attainment of remaining synergies from the ongoing integration of our acquisitions the ongoing effects of continued cash deployment and our proactive cost management.
Before we conclude our prepared remarks I want to provide some context around the few key initiatives I will be working on in my new role as CEO.
These initiatives are summarized on the slide titled PPG Path Forward in the presentation material supporting today’s teleconference.
First and foremost we are committed to maintaining an unwavering focus on our customers.
To do so we will continue to invest in customer driven innovation and technology.
Technology development has been the backbone of PPG for many many years and we have been to gain valuable share of our customers’ wallet as technology in our industry has continued to shift and support the changing customer and environment demand.
Recent examples include our compact process and automotive OEM a new array of coatings and sealant technologies that we serve – we develop to serve today’s composite aerospace market our industry leading water based refinished coatings and new coatings for the inside of food and beverage cans just to name a few.
We aim to use these technology shifts to expand our innovation leadership in markets in which we participate.
Also we intend to maximize the transfer of these technologies across all of PPG’s business as faster.
Additionally we need to increase our customer intimacy and service capabilities so that we are able to deliver higher organic growth.
This requires us to make it easier for customers to do business with PPG.
This includes from the time they or we develop a potential concept involving either coatings technology or application all the way through the purchase order to our final product shipment and providing technical support to service our customers to launch the new technology in their facilities flawlessly.
This is an end to end customer approach that has focused on building long lasting mutual beneficial relationships and is aimed to drive in a higher organic growth rate.
PPG has been very good operationally as the 34 year veteran of the company this is one of the disciplines that was instilled in me and continues to be in part with all associates from day one on the job and it remains with us today.
No stone goes unturned and looking for way to reduce costs and we will maintain this aggressive cost managing approach.
In addition we will make it even more dynamic so that we will continue rapidly adjust our cost structure to constantly match regional and end use market demand by further verbalizing our cost structuring.
This will include more shared service cost centers of excellence that were centralized costs allowing us to take advantage of efficiencies and technologies and is possible due to our global scale.
This will improve our cost structure in the various regions and field locations around the world.
Strategically we have made significant strides in transforming our portfolio in the past several years.
We are now in a position to optimize and extract the full scale advantages of our global coatings platforms.
This includes improvements in nearly every facet of our business including further distribution and supply chain advantages due to our breadth and depth of products and services we buy make and sell.
Naturally given all the effort we have put into transforming our business portfolio we will maintain our rigor on our business portfolio to ensure continued shareholder value creation.
Also we remain fiscally prudent and shareholder friendly to other trades that have long been embedded in PPG’s DNA.
From a balance sheet perspective we want to remain investment grade and maintain adequate financial flexibility which has served us so well over the years.
We will certainly invest organically to keep our existing businesses healthy and keep our discipline with respect to acquisition evaluation.
Additionally we intend to reward our shareholders and we recommend sustainable dividend increases to our Board of Directors.
We intend to be efficient with all our assets including cash and we will return excess cash to shareholders.
Lastly I am honored and excited to be CEO and I look forward over the coming weeks and months for spending more time with our shareholders and continuing this dialogue on the path forward.
Thank you for your time and once again we appreciate your interest in PPG.
Now Jasmine would you please open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Michael you highlighted in the release moderating global economic growth can you talk to what regions and what end markets you are seeing that moderating growth? Sure.
We can start with automotive as you know you saw that in China.
The good news is in September you saw a little bit of an improvement there and the order book for August continues to look modestly better.
You would also see some heavy-duty equipment being another area that continues to be a little bit weak.
From a regional perspective we see some – a little bit of uptick in Europe.
And obviously the Latin America particularly Brazil seems to be getting weaker instead of better.
So overall I think those would be some of our initial comments David.
Very good.
Michael just on raws in your gross margin nice expansion in Q3 where do we stand on the realization of some of the lower raw material costs through your COGS? David we have been very consistent.
We have told you throughout the year that about a third of our raw materials are tied to oil.
We get savings quicker on items closer to the oil well like solvents.
We get those in 30 to 60 days transportation typically 60 to 90 days.
We typically work with our suppliers of both through the propylene and ethylene derivatives savings.
And there is lag a little bit more in six months to nine months.
We see more raw material deflation in 3Q than in 2Q.
And we will continue to work with our suppliers to get further savings in 4Q and going forward.
Thank you very much.
Thanks David.
Thank you David.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
This is Chris Evans on for Bob.
I was hoping you could provide some additional granularity on the North American architectural volume decline are you guys seeing any trends outside of the destocking there? Chris what I would tell you is that we had a wet June and people were anticipating a stronger paint season.
We have been very consistent in saying that we expected the paint season to be in that low single-digit range.
I think our assessment has been relatively on target.
So we saw the major retail folks both in the U.S.
and Canada start to destock late in the third quarter.
The good news is I will tell you that we think it’s transitory because as I look at our sales through the first 14 days of October the sales are very consistent with what we saw in the fourth quarter of last year.
So that leaves me to believe that this is transitory effect.
Thank you guys.
Thank you Chris.
And our next question comes from the line of Duffy Fischer from Barclays.
Please proceed.
Yes good afternoon folks.
Question just if you would take a step back on your volumes the chart that you provided optically obviously doesn’t look good.
The whole industry is struggling a little bit.
But when you look across your businesses would you say you are gaining or losing market share in – so the question is are your volumes kind of worse than the market or in line with the market would you guess? Well I guess Duffy I would first say that it’s a difficult question to answer given that there is not a lot of industry data that you can rely on.
So I would say it’s conceivable that in the U.S.
stores business we might have ticked down a fraction.
But certainly I don’t feel that way in Canada.
And we are gaining share in other places like Mexico.
We are gaining share in Europe.
We are gaining share – so I would tell you that since we run a global architectural business overall net-net we are doing pretty well.
Duffy if you go to some other markets outside of architectural you will see auto is up versus the industry packaging we believe is up versus the industry and we think our protective business is up versus the industry although the other side of that coin is marine.
And marine for the industry is down and we are managing the declines with the industry.
Okay.
And then one area that it looks like you have an exciting new product you call it compact.
I think the industry will call it wet on wet.
But it seems like you have gotten two big wins in that space recently.
One how big does that market become over the next 2 or 3 years and then is it conceivable that this could be like eco where you would get a strong majority of the wins going forward? Yes Duffy I would tell you that this has been a recent trend.
We have been outperforming the industry for quite some period of time now.
So the industry was up 1% in Q3 we were up 5% in Q3.
So again we have significantly outpaced.
We have told people that it’s not probable that we would outpace the industry for an extended period of time.
At some point you have to revert to the means but our technology we think is the best.
Our technical service has certainly been outstanding.
And we have been winning more than our fair share of new plants.
So that’s good.
And then ultimately when they start to refurbish some of these older facilities and they want to save money and reduce the footprint size this compact process will also be another winner.
So we think this is a long-term sustainable win for us going forward.
Thanks to the outstanding work of our R&amp;D team.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you Duffy.
And our next question comes from the line of John Roberts with UBS.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon.
Was Comex up high single-digits in the quarter? I know it was up high singles for the first half.
So I am just wondering whether it slowed down and still maintained high single for the nine months but was decelerating in the quarter may be? No John Comex has performed very well all year very consistent at the at market sales.
What we do see with Comex is the peso devalued 20% plus and so that’s been taking away some of the top line.
We have made up for that with growth in both at market as well as new concessionaire store openings.
Okay.
And could you comment a little bit about the M&amp;A pipeline and whether valuation expectations have come down with the multiples on the publicly traded paint companies? Yes John the way I would answer that is its too early for the multiples to come down to the last 30 or 60 days where you saw the stock market come down.
Our pipeline still continues to look very good.
We are active looking at a number of properties.
And I see no difference in that regard versus what we have had in the past.
Okay thank you.
Thank you John.
And our next question comes from the line of P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Hi Michael.
I have a question on this inventory management by retailers.
You saw that in third quarter what’s your confidence level that you think it’s behind us? You said first couple of weeks it is good.
And then secondly on that was it a particular retailer or was it across the board for everyone that destocking took place? Was there any impact on pricing because of that? P.J.
we had a little hard time hearing you.
Let me try to repeat the question.
You asked I think what’s our confidence about Q4 no carryover into Q4 to destock and how broad was the destocking.
Is that correct P.J.? Yes that’s correct.
And if there was any impact on pricing of paint because it is destocking? The third part will be okay.
Alright.
So we will take the pricing one first.
As you know we have been telling you consistently that pricing our model shows pricing flat for the year.
We still see that happening.
And if you are thinking about next year we’ll see pricing flat pretty much into next year as well.
As far as why we think it’s a transitory effect on inventory not only have we looked at our own inventories but we have also obviously talked to our customers.
And they are also of that same opinion.
So I think that’s a way to think about it besides just the fact that we are looking at our order book and it was broad.
I won’t say all but I will say it was very broad.
And P.J.
you may have missed earlier but Michael mentioned that the first two weeks of October our order patterns are consistent with that same time period last year.
Okay thank you.
And then just on Canada you mentioned that volumes were down.
Can you just give some order of magnitude? How much were volumes down in Canada? Thank you.
So for us just to frame this for everybody we purchased – when we purchased the AkzoNobel North American business in 2013 we acquired the number one position in the country of Canada.
At that time we said the business was roughly $500 million and a very concentrated paint season just from a weather perspective.
And that business was down similar to what you are seeing the total segment – total architectural business be down so high-single low double-digit range.
And that’s more structural P.J.
we do see weakening in the Canadian economy.
Yes.
We have had two quarters in a row of GDP down in Canada.
You there P.J.? Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Thanks very much.
In your commentary you said that your cost-cutting program is lowering cost annually by about $20 million.
So let’s call it $5 million a quarter.
But your SG&amp;A and R&amp;D costs in the quarter were down $52 million.
And so I assume that I don’t know $47 million of that is currency.
But your overall current – that is you had a $47 million currency benefit in SG&amp;A.
But you said that your currency net hit was $40 million.
So does that mean that the gross margin was penalized by about $87 million or $90 million in the quarter due to currencies? Yes.
First of all let’s take the various categories.
And if you look at corporate cost it’s correct to say corporate costs went down by about $20 million.
And the majority of that was stock-based compensation obviously reflecting the equity markets.
And that will – it includes both the Q3 effect and the catch-up from the first half.
That won’t really repeat in the fourth quarter.
And I would suspect that that corporate cost line will be back up in the $50 million to $55 million range versus the low $35 million that you saw in the quarter.
What you are correct in saying that there is a currency benefit to our cost structure in total that applies to both COGS and SG&amp;A around the world.
So what we said was while currency impacted the top line by $310 million in the quarter and impacted the bottom line by about – the operating income line by about $45 million in the quarter we expect that overall currency impact in the fourth quarter will be less than that but at today’s rates about $250 million in the top line and about 10% of that on the operating income line.
But in terms of we can’t really give you detail right now on the specific currency impact on every portion of the income statement but that’s how I would frame it for Q3 and what we expect for Q4 as well as the corporate details.
Okay.
And then secondly many companies when they report earnings provide a full balance sheet and a full funds plus statement.
Are there reasons why you in the gathering of your information that it’s difficult for you to put that together? And what was operating cash flow for the quarter? So Jeff as you know we are a very early reporter.
We do think that provides very quick transparency to our shareholders.
We do file our Q within a week or so.
And we have all those details.
So I think the reason why just we would like to get the EBIT information sales and EBIT information out as quick as possible.
And all I will add to that is the fact that if you look at where we started the quarter and we ended the quarter we obviously picked up a couple of $100 million over $200 million in cash balance and that’s a combination of the earnings and then take off of that obviously CapEx our acquisition spending but also a good performance on working capital as we continued to work on collecting past due receivables as well as some initiatives we have around bringing inventories down.
So still very diligent over managing the cash flow and as a result we have a pretty decent Q3 in that respect.
So what was the operating cash flow number in the quarter? You will see that when we file our Q very shortly you will see all the details around that would rather wait until you get the whole statement before we dissect that.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Jeff.
And our next question comes from the line of Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Hi good afternoon gentlemen and congrats on another record quarter.
Thanks Frank.
But I think – I was thinking maybe I should wait until I see the Q to get super excited but I will take your word for it.
Michael I think you mentioned that North American order patterns or maybe Vince for the first couple of weeks of October were similar to what you were seeing last year so that gives you confidence that we are not seeing the destocking.
Obviously Asia was a big concern for folks and you said that it started out soft in Q3 but then it got better can you talk about the pace of business so far in October in that part of the world? Yes.
So Frank let me give you a couple of things as I go about here.
And I will start with the automotive side because there seems to be a lot of concern about the automotive piece.
As you know they have reduced the tax on small engines in China and they announced that tax rate in September.
And that took effect October 1.
And so it was not being inconceivable that people deferred purchases of small cars because you know that the tax rate was going to drop from 10% to 5% on October 1.
So we saw September sales in China were actually up about I think 3% if I remember right.
And in October we have a pretty good view of what’s happening with our customers.
Our order book looked pretty much just in time delivery.
And we are seeing moderately improved deliveries to our customers.
Of course we are performing better than the industry.
So we are still expecting automotive sales in China to be up modestly in that 1% to 3% kind of range.
If you look at our other businesses there was some initial destocking after the Tianjin “explosion”.
Most of that has worked its way through the system now because what happened is people were concerned about holding inventory for things like marine coatings refinished coatings all that has been moderated.
And we see those order books continuing to get better.
So I would tell you that starting mid-September we started to see that improvement and it’s continued in early part of October.
Alright that’s very helpful.
And I do appreciate the raising of the amount that you are going to spend on other M&amp;A or share buyback.
You raised the lower end there and I think in response to Mr.
Robert’s question you said that you are not really seeing the multiples come down on the M&amp;A front so would that suggest that we might preferentially go towards the share buyback route.
And having said that and asking the question obviously the stock is materially below the 52-week high or even though the last yearly average how are your thoughts about splitting between those two uses of cash? Frank let me clarify.
I said yet.
The acquisitions hadn’t yet reflected that.
So let’s be clear on that.
Secondly we have always said that acquisitions are always preferred.
They are more accretive than buying back our stock.
So that’s always our first preference.
But we are going to protect the shareholders value.
And if we don’t see the acquisitions coming through then we will take that money and buyback the stock.
So we want to continue to do both and our first preference is always acquisitions.
Frank and I think it’s safe to assume that as we go through the fourth quarter you can expect that we will continue to deploy cash in the quarter to either one or both of those initiatives as we did $900 million through the third quarter.
So we are already on pace to exceed have to midpoint by the end of this year so all the more reason to raise that range.
But we will continue to deploy cash in the quarter.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Frank.
Thank you Frank.
And our next question comes from the line of Arun Viswanathan with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Thanks guys.
So I guess I just wanted ask you your confidence level on a couple of things.
So going forward Q4 and 2016 you have a lot of organic growth initiatives do you expect that that would potentially drive a positive kind of volume growth picture in general industrial or auto OEM or are those kind of more dependent on market development? Arun I would tell you that we are expecting continued organic growth.
Let me give you some reasons why we believe that.
First of all as you know we sold our one glass facility and that was in – in the end of the third quarter last year.
So you will start to see that as a positive.
Comex will then flip from an acquisition to organic growth in the fourth quarter.
We close on that in November.
We continue to see positive growth in our automotive business.
Packaging continues to do well.
Our refinished business with the water-based technology continues to grow and that’s a slower growth given the fact that that’s volume challenged market with the new technology out there.
But we are continuing to grow in that regard.
And the one area that I would say is still a question mark is where we are in the cycle is heavy-duty equipment it’s been down.
I would expect that to at some point reach the bottom.
And then that would start to turn.
And we talked about packaging being very good as well.
So I think overall you are going to see a return to more organic growth.
And the other thing going in our favor quite honestly is the fact that inventories in the system are at very reasonable levels whether it’s the U.S.
automotive business of 160 days at current sales rates.
Packaging as Michael said we will continue to pick up new business from our technology based offerings there.
And then I mean in China because of the recent production rates have been below recent sales rates those inventories are coming back in line in the field too.
So we don’t really have to go through anymore rationalization of inventories if things stayed reasonably healthy in the end markets that includes U.S.
architectural.
Okay great.
And just looking at the slides it looks like obviously North America was challenged in Q4 a lot of destocking there.
But you sounded slightly more positive on Europe can you just help us understand a little bit more detail on what you are seeing in Europe? Yes.
So we will start first of all with the automotive business.
As you know sales have been better than builds.
And that’s obviously a good thing going forward.
We are also seeing a pickup in a number of countries.
Southern Europe is obviously coming off a very low base.
But it’s getting better as well.
And then we saw a pickup in our architectural business in the Benelux.
And of course we have always seeing good growth in Germany as well as the UK.
And although the Eastern European region has been a little choppy mostly up that’s been good.
The only one that’s really down of course is Russia.
Russia continues to be down nearly 30% in a number of segments.
So that economy is clearly challenge.
And then we have been gaining share in the protective market in Europe as well.
So that’s been a positive force all along.
And then the last thing I would say is that our – we are building a new silica plant in Europe and that facility will be starting up.
And we have a very good demand for the new products industry leading new technology coming out of that facility.
And Arun the one area we haven’t talked about previously in the call is South America.
For us it’s about 3% of our sales.
We do see challenges in South America as Michael alluded to in his prepared remarks.
We don’t see that returning to growth certainly in the near-term.
Okay.
And just to clarify you said in the past recently that around 10% or so of your businesses are the ones that are kind of in that challenged area.
Is that still a fair characterization or is there any kind of sensitivity around that? Again I would say South America about 3% of our sales.
We have framed architectural Canada for you at about $500 million.
Those will be the two very sensitive.
If you combine Russia Ukraine Africa you may be get another 2% or 3% max.
And of course the Comex business is doing extremely well and then it will be translated to organic growth.
For 2016 they continue to open stores at a very healthy pace.
So that will also help us out in the organic growth rate.
And I guess Arun this is Michael.
The one thing I would add at the end is France.
France is still a challenge market for us.
But at some point we do feel confident that’s going to have to turn around.
And so I would tell you that’s probably why we are more optimistic when you put all these things together.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon and thanks for taking my questions.
Back on North American architectural you didn’t mention performance at the stores so what did volume do in your company-owned stores? Yes.
Same-store sales were modestly negative.
We have come off of a I don’t know 7 or 8 positive comps in a row including Q1 Q2 of this year.
Most of that was Canada.
We have talked about the modest paint season.
And then I would remind you that our PMC most of our PMC in North America runs through our stores.
As you know the oil business has been certainly under a lot of pressure.
And so that’s the way I would characterize that.
And PMC just for everybody is protected on marine coatings.
So if we remove the store numbers from the other channels in North American architectural does that mean that those other channels were actually down more than high single-digits? Slightly more because the stores were just slightly negative.
Okay thanks.
And then just on Canada I mean obviously we understand GDP issues there but housing still continues to be strong.
So what – is it some other channel that’s affecting the demand for architectural paint? No Nils.
I mean we have said for many many years that architectural typically tracks closer to GDP than anything.
And there is a house build market and a house repaint market.
The repaint market is typically 5 times to 6 times larger than the house build market.
So the repaint market is not trapped I guess in new home sales.
And that’s the one that drives the volume at the end of the day.
We would say that paint in Canada is 80% repaint.
Understood.
That’s helpful.
And then just finally Michael you did speak about leveraging your asset base.
Obviously you have got some pretty significant size in your assets across the globe and doing that through distribution and supply chain? What does that – what would that translate in terms of margin accretion over a three or five-year period? I think that’s a little early to answer that question.
I think the way to think about it is we have major shared service facilities in Europe and Asia.
Now with the Comex one we will be able to add additional one in Latin America.
We are starting up.
We have put in a new resin facility in Brazil.
We have a new facility that we expanded actually in China.
So that will drive lower cost in our automotive and industrial businesses there.
And then we are also moving more of our production in Europe from West to East.
So that will add additional benefits.
So I think that’s the way I would get you to kind of frame your question.
Thanks very much.
Thank you Nils.
And our next question comes from the line of Ghansham Panjabi with Baird.
Please proceed.
Hey guys.
Good afternoon.
Michael I know it’s early but looking out to 2016 can you just give us some of the various puts and takes related to some of the bigger businesses in your portfolio just from a fundamental standpoint maybe starting with the North American architectural and then also auto OEM? Okay.
North American architectural I would say that we are going to probably have the same opinion we had this year which is low single-digits growth for that business.
So we are going to continue to stay there.
Automotive it continues to be a very strong market for us.
That’s been a good one.
Our refinish business in North America we are gaining share with our water-based technology.
That’s a positive.
Aerospace has been moderating growth but continues – we continue to get new content on the planes and with the acquisitions that we have added that Cuming Microwave would be one.
That would be another positive.
When you move to Europe I would tell you that again I would say that it’s probably going to be modest in that low single-digits kind of range.
We continue to do well in our automotive space there.
Our packaging space continues to pick up business.
So that’s good for us.
When you look at some of the other businesses probably the bright spot is our protective business.
We have a new industry leading technology on fire protection that has really done very well.
On the negative side obviously you have – you are still going to have the challenges in Russia.
We don’t see that going away moving to South America.
As Vince mentioned earlier we see that probably bottoming out.
So we don’t – we are not really excited about what we see down in Brazil but we are aggressively taking cost out in Brazil.
So it’s not going to be a negative from that kind of standpoint.
And then moving over to Asia Southeast Asia has performed okay.
India has been really solid.
I would say they are in that 6%.
So if you ask what has the highest growth in Asia right now? It’s India.
And then we still remain – because our business in China is predominantly for consumer-oriented stuff stays and what we make in China stays in China it’s not for the export market.
So we are optimistic that China will continue to resume its growth.
We know the Chinese government is very interested in the economy growing.
They are taking a lot of right moves to have the economy growth.
And we have benefited that it’s been one of our best markets and we expect that to continue to do well going forward.
Don’t forget the… Great that’s helpful.
And then specific to packaging can you just sort of parse out the strong growth that you are seeing there geographically? I mean it seems like you have seen a fair amount of success with the BPA non-intent.
Is that spreading globally? And did that start to materialize in 3Q? Well the BPA non-intent win started in Europe.
They have continued into the U.S.
As you know or you may know California has this proposition 65 out there.
They have not taken a firm position yet.
But our guess is that our folks in the U.S.
will be much more interested in the BPA non-intent coatings going forward.
So that trend will accelerate.
And as you know we only had 3% market share inside the can.
And so since this is a once in a generation or multi-generation for some of these things opportunity we are going to be at a higher presence inside the can than we have ever been in the past.
So that would be a positive for us overall.
Okay.
And then just one final one for Frank if I could just on working capital Frank for ‘15 just given how dynamic the raw material environment has been how should we think about that for 2015? Thanks so much.
Yes.
Our goal on working capital obviously is to bring that down by 100 basis points a year.
We have seen a little bit of slow pay recently but we will get that back down by the end of the year.
And we do have some relatively aggressive inventory goals for the teams.
We are making great progress on that.
But that would be our overall goal is to keep bringing that down by about 100 basis points.
And it’s probably the largest opportunity in inventory by keep working on the receivables.
Payables are in pretty decent shape.
I was just going to add one more thing to what Michael was saying on the growth prospect for 2016.
Remember a lot of the acquisitions that we have done this year at $400 million worth of cash deployed in acquisitions the revenue associated with that is only a small portion of what the full year impact is or will be for 2016 so in between $400 million and $500 million of revenue associated with acquisitions excluding the base Comex business.
That’s over and above the base Comex business.
We will hit in full stride next year.
And you can make any assumptions you like in terms of the profitability of those businesses but that’s also going to be accretive to our top line along with the EBITDA that goes with that.
Okay perfect.
Thanks so much.
Thanks.
Thank you Ghansham.
And our next question comes from the line of Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Hi guys.
This is Matt Gingrich on for Vincent.
I was wondering if you could speak to the phasing of sell-through in U.S.
quarter on a month-by-month basis? On a month-by month basis I would tell you that we started to see the destocking start in August and by the middle to the end of September it was over.
So that's the way I would think about that.
Okay great.
And then in terms of how sales trended in your dedicated paint stores what did you see there? Actually in the dedicated paint stores it was pretty I would say consistent through the quarter.
Although near the end of September our comps were marginally better than what they were earlier in the quarter.
And then they have started to be in October as I mentioned virtually identical to what we had in the 4Q of last year.
Would that be mid single-digits? Yes – no it’s low single-digits positive.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you Matt.
And our next question comes from the line of Don Carson with Susquehanna.
Please proceed.
I guess a question going into next year what kind of gross margin momentum you think you have from raws because obviously in the first half of the year you are going to have some relatively easy comps.
You are still expecting some good gross margin expansion in the first half of the year? Don I would tell you that we are going to continue to work with our suppliers to pull through the savings.
And so I would say it’s going to be modest.
Our goal here is to continue to pull those through.
We still see weakness in the TiO2 market.
We still think it’s oversupplied.
And then clearly we haven’t talked about Henan Billions.
Yet surprisingly we have made it 55 minutes in the call and not one question about it.
So I will go ahead and since everybody is interested and tell you that the first set of samples we got from the particle size was too large.
The second set of samples we got from them were too small so now they are dialing it in.
We expect to be buying commercial quantities of TiO2 from Henan Billions sometime late in the fourth quarter.
So overall I would tell you we are still feeling like there is more savings to come.
Plus as you know we will have incremental restructuring savings in predominantly Europe but also Brazil and Australia from our restructuring program.
That incrementally throughout the year will add up to about $60 million to $75 million.
Obviously it accelerates as it goes throughout the year 2016.
But that will be another positive.
Thank you.
Thank you Don.
And our next question comes from the line of Jim Sheehan with SunTrust.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Could you talk about your exposure to commercial construction and what you are seeing in both your coatings and your glass businesses in that market? Yes.
Commercial construction is obviously more important to our glass business than it is to our coatings business.
Commercial construction has been slightly better.
What the challenge there is actually the fabricators who make fabricate glass window units are I would call them full.
They are – their backlog on fabricated units continues to be 6 8 10 weeks.
So that’s been a challenge for the market.
I would tell you that our glass business as you can see has done pretty well.
We have gotten price.
We already had two price increases in that business this year.
So that’s been a positive.
And we continue to expect improvement again next year.
And in EMEA you had some positive volumes there.
I think auto OEM was particularly strong could you just comment on what your volume growth was in architectural coatings in Europe? Architectural coatings were flat in Europe.
And of course that varied.
And also up in the UK up in the Benelux down in France mostly up in Eastern Europe but not every Eastern European country was up so net-net flat because France is our largest architectural coatings market.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Kevin Hocevar with North Coast Research.
Please proceed.
Hi good afternoon everybody.
A question on the – going back to the cash deployment bumped up to the low end of the range and $2 billion to $2.5 billion and you say at least $2 billion to $2.5 billion so implying it could go above that.
I guess what would it take for you to go above that range would necessitate M&amp;A or if the stock price was attractive enough would you consider repurchasing above that level? As Michael said the pace of share repurchase obviously depends upon the not only the pipeline of M&amp;A but also the timing of which you actually deploy and close the deals.
I guess what we are saying is we are confident enough in the cash generating capability of the business and we are very comfortable upping the midpoint of that range so that we are now at $2 billion to $2.5 billion.
And the fact that we have already kind of exceeded the pace of the prior range by the end of the third quarter and expect to continue to deploy cash in the fourth quarter.
But as we lookout in 2016 we got a good pipeline of M&amp;A.
So the chances are we will be doing more deals next year and be supplementing it with share repurchases because we are starting of the year – we ended the third quarter with $1.4 billion of cash.
Q4 is generally a good quarter for cash generation.
And so we have the confidence that we will continue to deploy and we would earn value for the shareholders.
And we will just continue that into next year and see where it goes.
But we could do more share repurchase.
Our preference is to do M&amp;A.
That will be the first priority.
But you will see both of that as we go through the fourth quarter and more primarily M&amp;A in the 2016 timeframe.
Okay great.
And just also you mentioned an expectation to resume organic growth in the fourth quarter and FX impacts to mitigate a little bit.
And also you closed LJF after the end of the second quarter.
So do you think that the top line decline that we saw in the third quarter is kind of it will stop there and will resume top line growth in the fourth quarter? Yes.
Kevin I do believe that’s going to happen.
We closed LJF on October 1.
We had four acquisitions that basically closed in the third quarter plus we will have Comex that flips into the organic side.
So I think that’s all positive.
Okay good.
Thanks guys.
Thank you Kevin.
And our final question comes from the line of Dmitry Silverstein with Longbow Research.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for fitting me in here.
A couple of questions a lot of them have already been addressed.
But I just want to understand on the China impact from the automotive how – like how long do you typically read the sales number in China.
In other words we are seeing sales decline in the Chinese auto I am assuming production is declining this quarter to adjust for that.
So the fact that you didn’t see much of a decline in the third quarter is that just a delay and you will see some of it in the fourth or are you more real time with the sales number at the retail level? Well Dmitry the sales to the customer decline in June July August and then turned back positive in December.
They were up 3%.
Builds inventories were coming down in that same period.
Right now inventory is basically at the same level it was last year.
So they are in very good shape from that standpoint.
We think they are about a little bit over 40 days which is typical for them.
And then right now as I mentioned earlier on the call the October sales are trending up.
We basically supply in real time.
We get orders let’s call them 28 days in advance of what I would call a pre-look and then they are firmed up 14 days in advance.
So right now we have a pretty good feel for how October is going to turn out.
And I think overall we would tell you that it should be marginally up.
Got it.
So would you describe in terms of your sales cadence in June July August and September was pretty much what we saw at a retail level in China.
So is that just coincidence or are you – or is there is no lag between demand for your coating products for automotive and the sale of automotive to a retailer? No Dmitry.
We are very closely aligned because they did take inventory down.
Have they not taken inventory down I think we would see that lag effect but the industry took inventory down commensurate with the sales decline in real time.
Got it.
Okay.
So that’s good to know.
Second question on the – excuse me on the raw material benefit you talked about taking six months to nine months to get some of these propylene ethylene derivatives which I am assuming you are mainly talking about resins here down in price it’s been about that long since oil really started to selloff and since propylene and ethylene pricing started to tumble.
So are you starting to see lower prices in resins on a year-over-year basis that’s going to help you with the declines in TiO2 to really drive your margins certainly into the first half of next year? Well as we said we expected modest benefit with the benefit to grow throughout the year.
We are seeing that in our numbers.
As we said in the past the benefit is muted in non-U.S.
region simply because oil is traded in dollars around the world.
So when you go to Europe or you go to some of these emerging markets the currency deltas have eaten into most of the raw material impact.
So again we are pulling this through our value chain.
We feel we are doing a good job at it.
We do have another quarter here to go and we are certainly talking to our suppliers on a daily basis.
So as Vince is saying here as you see the raw material benefits come through the pace of that may not change significantly going from Q3 to Q4 to Q1 but it will be more evident to the bottom line because there will not be so much offset from a currency headwind as that mitigates starting in Q4 versus what we have seen is very high levels recently.
Right.
So you say you are not so much looking at acceleration of benefits as the diminishment of the headwinds that will make those benefits more apparent? The other thing we would mention though is that where you do see a bit of a headwind on raw materials because of the exchange rate is places like Brazil really the small percentage of our revenue in Canada because the exchange does cause some of those U.S.
dollar based inputs to be a little bit higher.
Okay.
And then one final question on pricing architectural market in North America you talked about pricing being essentially flat and the similar expectations for 2016 which makes sense.
In terms of the coatings side of the business as opposed to the architectural side of the business both in North America and globally which tends to be dealing with customers that are looking for some pass-through of raw material prices.
What’s the pricing environment like in some of the general industrial coatings and perhaps some of the automotive aftermarket and some of those areas let’s say outside of high-value proposition like automotive OEM coatings? Are you starting to see either lower prices or more customer insistence on price pass-through or are they still happy with getting the product from you at the price they got it last year? Dmitry I really don’t want to get into parsing each of the different businesses because we roll out new products and we have older products.
What we have been consistent in saying is that the pricing environment is flat and we expect that to continue.
Not just in paints but in coatings as well? Correct.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Dmitry.
That concludes questions.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Vince Morales for closing remarks.
I just want to once again thank everybody for their time and interest in PPG.
Both Scott Minder and myself will be available to take questions after the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
So you all have a great day.
Good afternoon and welcome to the PPG Industries’ Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Andrew and I will be your conference specialist today.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After today’s presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Scott Minder Director Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
This is Scott Minder Director of Investor Relations.
We appreciate your interest in PPG Industries and welcome you to this teleconference to review PPG’s fourth quarter and full year 2015 financial results.
Joining me on the call from PPG are Michael McGarry President and Chief Executive Officer Frank Sklarsky Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Vince Morales Vice President Investor Relations and Treasurer.
Our comments relates to the financial information released on Thursday January 21 2015.
I will remind everybody that we posted detailed commentary and accompanying presentation slides on the investor center of our Web site ppg.com.
The slides are also available on the webcast site for this call and provide additional support to the opening comments Michael will make momentarily.
Following Michael’s perspective on the Company’s results for the quarter and for the full year a brief financial update from Frank we will move to a Q&amp;A session.
Both the prepared commentary and discussions during this call may contain forward-looking statements reflecting the Company’s current view of future events and their potential effect on PPG’s operating and financial performance.
These statements involve uncertainties and risks which may cause actual results to differ.
The Company is under no obligation to provide subsequent updates to these forward-looking statements.
This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The Company has provided in the appendix of the presentation materials which are available in our Web site reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
For additional information please refer to PPG’s filings with the SEC.
Now let me introduce PPG’s President and CEO Michael McGarry.
Thank you Scott and good afternoon everyone.
Today we reported fourth quarter and full year 2015 financial results.
For the fourth quarter our net sales were 3.7 billion and our adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were $1.23.
While our net sales were flat with prior year our sales in local currencies increased about 7% with higher sales volumes year-over-year and continued benefit from acquisition-related sales.
These sales increases were offset by persistent unfavorable foreign currency translation impacts.
For the quarter the unfavorable currency translation impact totaled about $250 million of sales and approximately $25 million on pretax income.
Our sales volume growth in the quarter of nearly 2% represented our highest growth rate of the year.
This solid volume growth stemmed from our ability to gain larger share of our customers’ wallets through their adoption of new or leading PPG technologies.
In addition we benefited from broadening improvement in European demand as our volumes in this region steadily improved in each quarter of 2015.
We grew coatings volume to 1% a year from the first quarter and steadily improved to 3% in the fourth quarter.
We also return to solid mid single-digit percentage growth rate in Asia as demand in that region improved remarkably in comparison with a weaker third quarter.
Volume trends in the Americas were mixed with countries but consistent with the prior levels.
We achieved organic growth in the U.S.
and Mexico that was offset with lower year-over-year sales volumes in Canada and several South American countries.
Our sales volume growth was broad-based across our business portfolio led by Industrial Coating segment which grew by mid single-digit percentage.
We delivered sales volume gains in all our business units within the segments including in our general industrial business where we reversed the negative sales volume trend experienced in the second and third quarters.
Also the automotive OEM industry growth rate improved sequentially and year-over-year and our automotive OEM Coatings business continue to grow at a rate above the industry average.
Brand analysis segment our Packaging Coatings business continues to benefit from industry move to new interior can coatings.
Customer adoption of Innovel our new interior can coating technology remain strong supporting our mid single-digit percentage growth in that business.
In the Performance Coatings segment automotive refinish protective and marine coatings and architectural coatings EMEA grew sales volumes.
Growth in architectural coatings in Mexico and the U.S.
was offset by weaker demand in Canada Brazil and China.
Aerospace Coatings sales volume declined in relation to a strong growth in the prior year and due to year-over-year differences and certain customer order balance.
This was the first decline in aerospace volumes in quite some time and we expect the business to return to growth in 2016.
Finally Glass segment sales volumes grew slightly principally due to higher flat glass demand supplementing the Company’s volume growth in the quarter for acquisition-related sales gains of about 5% coming primarily from the Comex acquisition which we completed in November 2014.
For the fourth quarter we generally experience normal seasonal sales trends in all our businesses and regions.
Lastly overall selling prices were flat which was consistent with our expectations communicated at the beginning of the year.
From an earnings perspective our fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share of $1.23 improved 17% versus the prior year.
We accomplished this despite the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation.
We delivered higher year-over-year income in each reporting segment due to our improving sales volumes and an unwavering focus on cost supplemented by earnings accretive acquisitions.
With respect to costs and addressing to achieving our acquisition-related cost synergies we also realized initial benefits from our previously announced business restructuring.
We will continue to recognize additional restructuring related savings in 2016 as we implement these actions.
In addition to cash deployed on acquisitions we also repurchased $250 million of PPG’s stock in the first quarter.
This brings our full share repurchase total to $750 million or about 7 million shares.
In the quarter our average diluted shares outstanding were 2.3% lower versus the previous year’s fourth quarter.
Now let me comment quickly on our full year results.
On a full year basis our sales were 15.3 billion consistent with the prior year despite 1.1 billion of negative foreign currency headwinds.
Our full year sales volumes grew about 1% led by a modest but broadening growth throughout the region or throughout the year in Europe.
Our adjusted earning per diluted shares was a record $5.69 up 17% versus our prior records and consistent with the adjusted EPS growth rates we achieved each quarter this year.
For the quarter and full year we’ve pleased with our strong financial performance and overall operational execution and which was a modest year from a global economic growth perspective.
Over the year we continue to execute on our strategic objectives.
First and foremost was the successful integration of Comex acquisition.
Now that we have lapped the acquisition’s one year anniversary let me say that Comex performance has been excellent on virtually every measure.
Specifically the business grew organically by high single-digit percentage in the first year of acquisition.
We were successful during the year in capturing our targeted cost synergies.
In addition during 2015 we added revenue synergy targets and began to work toward achievement of those increased objectives.
These additions include the sale of PPG legacy products through the Comex concessionary network but incremental sale synergies in Central America.
Lastly Comex has maintained a space of opening up a new concessionary store location about every two days.
They have added almost 190 locations in total for the year and I am proud to note that we recently reached a milestone of 4 000 store locations in Mexico.
While this was a great accomplishment we had still considerable organic growth opportunities ahead of us.
In addition to the Comex results we also completed six smaller acquisitions throughout 2015 with the purchase price of over 400 million.
During the year we continued our legacy of strong cash generation with about 1.8 billion of cash generated from continuing operations.
We also maintained our heritage of returning cash to our shareholders delivering about 60% of the cash generated for the year or about 1.1 billion through dividends and share repurchases.
I will remind everyone that we have paid a dividend for 116 consecutive years and have raised our annual per share dividend payout for 44 consecutive years including a 7% per share dividend increase in April 2015 again a very strong full year performance for our Company.
As we enter 2016 we anticipate global economic growth will continue but at a varied pace and mixed by major economies.
In the Asia-Pacific region growth will most likely remain varied throughout the year but solid on a full year basis.
Some of this 2016 year-over-year variation will be due to uneven 2015 regional volume patterns.
A primary driver for growth in Asia is increased consumer spending which is beneficial to PPG as this effects the majority of our products sold in the region.
With strong growth in Asia and our quarter book for the first month of 2016 looks solid.
Economic expansion in North America is likely to continue at a modest pace comparable to 2015 supported by multiple sectors.
We anticipate continued improvement in construction markets in the U.S.
and for Canada to stabilize a lower activity level realized in the second half of 2015.
Overall industrial activity is expected to remain modest but positive in comparison to the lower than anticipated 2015 level.
We continue to expect solid organic growth in Mexico supplemented by revenue related acquisition synergies.
One item specific to PPG in 2016 is that we will continue with our multi-year U.S.
architectural coatings branding initiatives.
During 2016 we will be working with our major national retail or DIY customers on various modified branding initiatives.
As a reminder in 2015 we’ve rebranded our U.S.
Company-owned store network to PGG Penns.
Moving to South America where our business is relatively small at about 3% of total sales.
Demand in that region is expected to remain erratic and subdued.
In Europe we expect the economy to build on the broadening growth rates achieved in 2015 which would be beneficial to PPG at nearly 30% of our total sales are in that region.
Favorable end-use market trends are expected to continue in 2016 particularly in automotive OEM coatings and industry build growth rates in Europe and in aggregate globally are expected to be positive for the year.
Given that we have substantially reduced our cost structure in Europe.
We expect incremental margins in that region to be in the 35% to 40% range.
From an overall PPG perspective we remain focused on delivering higher organic growth including continued commercialization of our innovative industry leading coatings technologies.
Over the past several years we have deployed many new or leading technologies for our end-used markets.
These include our compact process technology and automotive OEM coatings which has been widely adopted by customers as it reduces their facility construction cost and ongoing operating cost.
Our water based automotive refinished coatings which is now the leading water based product in the industry.
We’ve converted more auto body repair shops at waterborne coatings than the rest of the entire coatings industry combined.
Our new Innovel interior can coatings realized growing customer adoption over the past year.
This allowed us to deliver mid single-digit percentage growth which is well above the packaging coatings industry growth rates but more to come in 2016.
And several new products in our Aerospace business and end-used market that is driven by new technologies that fit our technical strengths and capabilities this is the primary reason why we have a leading position globally.
In addition to organic growth we will continue to be aggressive on cost and productivity initiatives.
As those of you who know us and followed us over the years this is a never-ending quest for PPG.
We are always looking for better ways to improve our cost structure.
Finally our balance sheet remains strong as we ended the year with cash and short-term investments of $1.5 billion.
We intend to continue creating shareholders value through earnings accretive cash deployment.
We remain on-pace with our prior commitments to deploy between $2 billion and $2.5 billion of cash in the years 2015 and 2016 combined including the $1.15 billion we deployed in 2015.
We expect coatings industry consolidation to continue in 2016.
Our pipeline remains strong as we continue to vest potential acquisitions around the world.
Share repurchases as well remain an integral part of our capital allocation strategy.
Let me conclude by saying that 2015 was an excellent year for PPG.
We delivered 17% adjusted earnings per share growth despite fit currency headwinds and uneven regional economic growth.
We are looking forward to another successful year in 2016.
And now I’d like to turn it over to Frank to review a few 2016 financial assumptions.
Thank you Michael and good afternoon everyone.
I am going to cover several items that will assist in modeling PPG’s 2016 sales and earnings.
We have included in today’s presentation materials a summary of these financial assumptions on Slide Number 12.
First is the carryover impact from the six acquisitions we completed throughout 2015.
As we’ve discussed in the past these acquisitions are expected to achieve full year sales of about $400 million in 2016.
We realized about $150 million of sales in 2015 for these acquisitions and expect an incremental 250 million in 2016.
This incremental revenue will be classified in the acquisition category until each acquired entity reaches its respective acquisition anniversary day.
After which time the energy’s performance will be include in normal operating organic results.
These acquisitions will typically achieve at or below the segment average margins and may be comfortably integrated into PPG.
Next we will continue to experience the impact of foreign currency translation headwinds that is measures against the U.S.
dollar.
As a result the Company expects that year-over-year currency translation will unfavorably impact sales by $550 million to $600 million and approximately two-thirds of this impact will be in the first half of the year.
Pretax earnings will be impacted by about $70 million to $80 million with similar phasing for the year.
These figures represent our current assumptions based on current exchange rates as of this week.
Again these impacts are currency translation related given the nature of our business we typically do not incur significant transaction-related currency impacts.
The next item relates to the Company’s pension and other post-retirement benefits or OPEB expenses.
Following an increase in 2015 we are expecting these expenses to decrease by about $20 million to $25 million in 2016.
This decrease stems from our adoption of a spilt discount rate methodology for measurement of pension cost components.
Probably offset by slightly lower expecting return on assets.
We expect slightly higher interest cost in 2016 including impact of our placement of long-term debt at the end of the first quarter of 2015 along with the changes in the cash balances.
As a result we expect a total of about $20 million of higher net interest expense year-over-year and we provided our quarterly net interest estimates on the presentation slide.
Next we anticipate that the Company’s 2016 tax rate on ongoing earnings from continuing operations would be in the range of 24.5% to 25.5% the comparable rate for 2015 was 24.5%.
This increase relates primarily to our regional earnings mix.
Finally as Michael mentioned the Company still anticipates cash deployment of 2 billion to 2.5 billion for the year’s 2015 and 2016 combined for acquisitions and share repurchases.
Once again a summary of these financial assumptions is contained in the presentation materials provided for today’s call.
This now concludes our prepared remarks.
Once again we appreciate your interest in PPG.
And now operator would you please open the line for questions.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator instruction] The first question comes from John Roberts of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Mike normally M&amp;A multiples decline when high yield debt market rates rise that private buyers kind of get back out of the market are you seeing anything yet in your -- because you indicated you are still engaged with a number of potential acquisition targets are you seeing any drop in evaluation multiples finally? John I think the way I would answer that is we don’t see as much competition from the private equity side.
But we haven’t seen any reduction in interest level from the strategics.
So at this point in time I think it’s a little early.
Now we’d be happy if it moves that direction as you know but right now we’d just wait and see.
And then just very little commentary here on raw materials given the massive drop that we have had in the base petroleum raw materials for your suppliers? Yes John consistent what we have said previously.
We saw modest benefits in 3Q and 4Q.
We’ve not lapped those benefits yet.
We have always said it takes six to nine months for us to pull through any savings.
And yes before you ask we expect our selling prices be flat for 2016 similar to 2015.
So we work with our suppliers on a regular basis we expect to be priced fairly and we have a whole purchasing team down there that knows that’s top of my mind.
The next question comes from Bob Koort of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Michael you have mentioned some rebranding though the DIY channels is that going to be at both your major partners and what are you going to do exactly there and is there -- you mentioned that you had already rebranded the store base is there some savings that offsets that 15 million in incremental spend? Well Bob as you know we started the rebranding of our stores in 2015 that was very successful.
That work has been completed so there is no carryover cost if you will from for that.
We do have agreement with our retail partners to begin some newer brandings.
I don’t want to get in the specifics because you have to wait until you see it on the shelves but we also have some new wins for 2016 that will require replacing some products on the shelves.
So all those costs are front loaded into Q1 prior to the paint season and so it makes sense it’s a onetime cost we wanted to make sure you were aware of.
And if I follow-up I know you’ve talked about reinvigorating organic growth of the Company following a lot of M&amp;A work.
Can you give us any updates on what you’re doing or some specifics maybe some anecdotes of successes and what’s on the horizon? Well I think you started to see some of this this is work that’s been underway for quite some period of time.
We have a lot of leading technologies that we were focused on but maybe there are some additional regional opportunities for us in emerging regions that’s one.
You’ve seen the significant adoption pickup rates in our Packaging business.
That’s been a good one you have seen in our Refinish business more water-based sales there and of course in our Automotive business you’ve seen the most recent acquisitions that we’ve done in REVOCOAT where those products are applied in the paint shop they had limited customers a limited geographic scope and we’re going to take that out globally and get some shares there as well so we’ve worked hard on trying to commercialize all this faster and I think that’s where the focus has been.
We also had some new wins that we’ll be rolling out later in 2016 in commercial transport so that’s all good as well.
So altogether I would say probably the most recent one that you probably haven’t seen in the past that are popping up would be our Protected segment in protected we had significant wins in dry-docking significant wins in the LNG sector significant wins in what we call our advantage products tank lines and things like that.
So those are ones that we’re rolling out globally as well.
So I say all positive.
The next question comes from David Begleiter of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Mike your Performance Coatings volumes fell 1% in 2015 I know you’re expecting growth this year but what would you expect volume growth to be in Performance Coatings in 2016? In Performance Coatings I would say that we should break that down into the various segments right so the Aerospace we would say that would be low single-digits so that is a reasonable number.
If you look into PNC given our last quarter I would say that it should continue to be low single-digits so obviously the marine side is a problem.
The order book for the big guys in Korea were 50% of what their expectations were so marine new builds will continue to be the challenge but the protective side should be really solid.
If you look at our refinished business miles driven continue to go up gas prices are down distracted driving is up insurance claims are up so refinish has done quite well so I would just call that historically that would be a zero business but I’d say that’s going to be a low single-digit kind of year.
And that leaves architectural and I think again that’s going to vary considerably by the region.
We were pleased with the UK Ireland Benelux Scandinavia all had good three plus kind of numbers that was good for us.
France actually stabilized and so we saw a couple of months in the fourth quarter that were marginally up.
It’s a little too early to tell yet what we expect there but I would say France I am more optimistic now than I’ve been the last say nine to 15 months.
So that’s all good.
The Eastern European countries are -- they have had a lot of promotional challenges but I would say overall it should come back around when you look at the U.S.
we’ve obviously had some good growth in the U.S.
except for the dealer market the dealer market continues to be challenged.
Canada I think is probably going to stabilize so I don’t expect a lot in there.
Mexico we’ve had tremendous growth there we’re going to continue to expect to grow two times GDP the one negative in Mexico is the fact that government spending has started to slowdown with the price of oil dropping.
I think Brazil’s going to be a challenge I think China’s going to be a challenge Australia should be good at least mid I would low to mid single-digits in Australia.
So that’s a good market for us so all-in-all I would say we should be at or above GDP for the Performance Coatings segment.
Very good Mike same off the Performance Coatings would you expect margins to be up in 2016 versus ‘15 given where it was and if so would 6 basis points be a low bar somewhere? David I think it’s a little early to answer that question.
In my opening commentary you saw that we said pricing would be flat.
We expect this to continue to see modest raw material deflation so I think putting a number on it is way too early.
This is Vince.
The one thing we do have is restructuring benefit we -- it is not the restructuring plan for everybody’s recollection in April 2015 we saw very modest benefits but targeted for all of ‘15 and we expect incremental benefits in 2016.
Yes that would be partially offset by changes in the corporate cost which should effect the historical levels but overall our goal would be to gradually accrete with return on sales percentage overall for the Company.
The next question comes from Duffy Fischer from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
First question just there has been a lot kind of about and written with the MROs in the refinish side of things and how they’re rolling that up.
As you look back at ‘15 how’s that played out for you guys and what would you look at going forward whether it would be a lot more on that consolidation and does that favor you would this favor you how would you talk about that? Duffy this is Michael.
I think you’re referring to the MSOs Multi Shop Operators that trend line is for the big guys that continue to buy the little guys it is obviously a positive for us.
Some of these smaller shops lack the same productivity that the bigger shops too that’s where we bring tremendous amount of value to our multi-shop operators we are there to improve their business instead of getting nine cars out of the shop they can get 10 cars out in a day.
So that’s been a positive for us.
So I’d tell you that our share in the U.S.
continues to increase.
I don’t know how much more the MSOs will aggregate this year because when I think about it from a dead market I’m not sure how aggressive they’re going to be in trying to raise more debt given this environment but regardless we are totally supportive and it’s been a good trend for PPG.
And then it is a little bit nitpicky but it might be $20 million or so last year currency hedged you 250 million on revenue 25 million on income which was about a 10% margin this year at the midpoint you have kind of moved that up to a 13% or 14% margin what’s the difference in how the currency is impacting earnings relative to sales this year versus last year? Duffy this is Frank here.
It really has to do with some of the mix of where the currency translation impacts ours so for instance so we have much larger component of Comex this year and given the margin structures and given that relative portion of that business to the total PPG that’s really where the difference is and so the last year the largest impact for instance was the euro it is a little bit more balanced in terms of the currency impacts this year with maybe with a higher proportion of Latin America so that would really be the difference.
The next question comes from Rory Blake of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
This is Frank Mitsch setting in for Rory.
Michael in early September we met with you and you were talking about how you were concerned about 10% or just under 10% of the PPG portfolio mentioning Brazil Russia heavy-duty equipment et cetera.
As we sit here today late mid to late January what percent of the portfolio would you say you’d put in that concerning category? Well I think Frank it probably hasn’t changed too much.
Russia we still see that as a challenging market Brazil is probably more challenged today than it used to be heavy-duty equipment though is I’d say stabilized at a lower level but it is a down but the negativeness of those numbers have significantly reduced.
Besides that I’d tell you that the rest of our businesses are pretty good.
So I don’t know that I would -- change what you got as a concerned level.
That’s very interesting obviously you see the broader market melting down expecting that the global economy is going to tank here but based on the guidance that you have put forth it doesn’t appear that that was the case and I’ll take your response so you reiterate that that’s terrific if I could follow-up and some granularity to the productivity progress I think you had talked about or could you talk about realizing about $70 million of benefits in 2016 and exiting the year at a run rate of $100 million is that still a target or is it higher lower? How can you help us there? Now Frank that’s still above right I know we said that was on the program we would get a between $15 million and $20 million if you remember by the end of 2015 and that was accurate and the incremental 50 to 70 for 2016 bringing us a total of just under 100 million by the end of 2016 and then a little bit of trailing into ‘17 and those assumptions are still good and nevertheless we continue based on macro environment.
We’re always looking for additional rationalization opportunities and that will be a very strong focus for us.
Frank you mentioned though that corporate expenses are expected to tick higher in ‘16 is that correct? I’d say that because of the fact that Q4 number was a little bit lower based on stock-based compensation based on stock-based compensation it will probably revert back to something closer to what we’ve seen historically in prior years as you get back into Q1 and for the remainder of the year.
So it’s based on stock-based compensation that’s the delta? That was one of the primary drivers really going down form the Q4 the prior year yes.
The next question comes from Jeff Zekauskas of JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
I think your pension funding this year was about $300 million.
What you expect your pension funding for the next year? Yes the numbers will come down substantially.
The number for this year really includes that large $250 million that we put in the first quarter to really shore up the funding of the U.S.
plans.
Those numbers will come down into the I would say the low double-digits in terms of cash funding for 2016.
We have very little in terms of mandatory funding for the year.
And that was really related to some of the international plans.
So that cash funding will not be what I would call material way.
We may have some wind ups that we do in various parts of the world and we’ll be very transparent about those when those happen but on a trend basis that 250 was probably an anomaly.
In thinking about your overall volume growth for 2015 the geographic area that you had your difficulties in was North America that is Europe and Asia grew 2% or 3% and the U.S.
and Canada was down 1%.
Can you diagnose what went wrong in the U.S.
and Canada in 2015? And how you expect it to be different than 2016? Let’s start with Canada first.
I mean clearly the oil business has the first material impact on that and that was a challenge for us.
I would say that the slowing Canadian economy was also a challenge for us.
When you shipped into the U.S.
clearly we told you that the biggest challenge we had in the third quarter was the destocking that we saw due to the weather challenges we had in May and June.
We have a very large stain [ph] business if you will in our architectural business.
So that was one.
Then you had heavy duty equipment and industrial was the challenge.
So those were all the negatives.
We also had the slowing in the industrial production.
So when you factor that in and look at what we’re looking at for 2016 I am not nearly as pessimistic I think industrial production will be more steady.
You certainly see the housing market continuing to progress.
I would say that our rebranding initiatives in our architectural business is a positive the line reviews that we had with the major retail DIY chains were also positive.
So I am coming in the year feeling better about the U.S.
So that would be my explanation.
The next question comes from P.J.
Juvekar of Citi.
Please go ahead.
Mike I want to go back to some of your broader comments that you made.
You talked about broadening out of the recovery in Europe which is not something we have heard a lot about.
You talked about auto sales growing from the mid $17 million -- or mid-17 million unit level.
Do you think that’s sustainable given some cautious commentary from auto companies and auto parts companies so far? Well one of the leading indicators we look at of course is registrations and the various countries.
And if you look at registrations they have been ahead of builds and sales in the fourth quarter were substantially ahead of builds.
So inventory wise even though Europe historically doesn’t keep much inventory we still think that’s a positive.
If you look in the southern countries in Europe they all had very high growth rates albeit coming off an extremely low base.
But that was our positive.
So I’d say unlike in the U.S.
where we’re in the late innings in the U.S.
for automotive I’d say in Europe we’re more like the middle innings there.
So I think that’s just our viewpoint.
Obviously we could be wrong P.J.
but I think that’s our take on it.
And my second question is on TiO2.
Can you just give us an update on where does the Henan Billions plan stand on chloride TiO2? And would you be willing to license that technology to other companies in China? So P.J.
you probably saw our press release.
We qualified the material let’s call it in October.
We had shipments on the water.
We started commercially using the material in early December.
More product is on the water going to other locations outside the U.S.
So it’s going to get qualified in Mexico; it’s getting qualified in Europe.
The bottom line is they are making good products their consistency is getting better.
And we are pleased with what we are seeing.
We have most favored nations with them so that’s the positive for us as well.
As far as licensing no one else has approached us.
But clearly as we have demonstrated and people I think were a little bit concerned about but we have demonstrated that we are able to support them with our technology and it’s running well.
And the biggest thing we are working with them on now is consistency and so far so good.
And we are open.
So if you know somebody we should be talking to let us know but right now Henan Billions is our partner.
The next question comes from Arun Viswanathan of RBC.
Please go ahead.
I just had a question on the volume trends.
It looks like Q4 you’ve got 2% growth and most of the ‘15 was about 1%.
And just look at the slide commentary looks like most of the commentary is for continued improvement in Q1 outside of seasonality.
So I mean would you characterize what you are seeing right is any kind of positive inflection point? Then maybe you can talk about by end market especially automotive OEM and architectural.
Well so far in Q1 our order book looks very similar to what we saw fairly in Q4.
As we told people in Q4 everybody thought that world was falling down in China we tried to reassure people that we did not see that.
I think people saw that car builds in China were up substantially in 4Q.
We have good visibility all the way through Chinese New Year so we see the Chinese auto builds continue to be up low single digits.
Overall we see the U.S.
car market being up low single digits as well.
But as we described in the earlier comment we see that in a later innings of ball game.
So those are our commentary as far as the other markets industrial has been an up and down market for us.
We talked about heavy duty equipment; the automotive parts business is being good; we had positive trends in coil in the fourth quarter general finishes was up.
Our electronic materials business was also up.
That is not really due to electronic materials growth as much as the new product reductions we have.
And electronic materials were pretty significant and our customers are adopting this new technology.
So it’s more like a win in the marketplace.
And I think I have covered architectural quite substantially but there is a market I missed I’d be happy to cover it Arun.
It’s fair enough.
Arun just to add to what Michael said referring to his comments before too we’ve seen some good wins on the protective side that should continue specialty coatings materials and packaging; that also applies to the packaging and industrial businesses in Europe where we continue to see recovery and then see some nice wins there.
So that’s also going to add to the organic growth as we go forward.
Great.
And just as a follow-up I mean have you seen any change in behavior amongst your customers? As you said a lot of us -- lot of investors and maybe observers are just kind of skittish on what’s going on in first half -- couple of weeks of the year.
But is there have been any changes amongst yours customers and is that to be expected or your business is much longer cycle and we shouldn’t expect that? Well we haven’t got anybody calling us up all nervous.
I would tell you the one packaging comment I’d throw out [ph] that Frank didn’t mention was that in California with Proposition 65 concerns we see more of our customers actually converting to the newer technologies faster and sooner than we originally expected.
So that’s the positive for us.
I think we read more about the nervousness than we see about the nervousness.
But maybe people would turn off the TVs that might be a little better.
The next question comes from Don Carson of Susquehanna Financial.
Please go ahead.
Michael I want to go back to architectural just both U.S.
and Canada and that North American outlook last year in the U.S.
obviously growth was below trend due to weather.
Do you see that snapping back this year or do you see that being offset by weakness in some of the energy related states? And more importantly what was your growth in U.S.
architectural last year versus the market and how would you expect it compared to the market this year? Then just any general comments on Canada and Mexico market growth outlook? So Don let me start with the U.S.
We saw the market at between 2% and 3%; that’s been consistent.
You’ve seen that with retailers as well.
I would say that we were a tick below that.
So from that standpoint we were disappointed with our performance but I would tell you that given what we have seen moving forward that the will be a better year this.
We opened 25 essentially 25 new stores between U.S.
and Canada we opened a 190 new store locations in Mexico we’ve opened new locations in France as well.
So I would say overall our global store network will be bigger and better in 2016 than 2015.
So that’s kind of my summation of that.
We said earlier -- I don’t if you caught it this is Vince that we expected the Canadian market to remain soft in the first part of the year but then we’d lap that softness in the back half of the year so that -- I think you had question on Canada as well.
On the protective side I guess you also made a commentary about that.
Protective [audio gap] we’re winning share both in the U.S.
and Canada so we had built into our plans continued growth in 2016.
And then just to follow up on raws not so much coatings raws but just hydrocarbons just Vince you can run how much gas you’re consuming in your glass business? And I would imagine just things like diesel fuel coming down given how substantial your truck fleet hours [ph] have to be a benefit as well.
So what kind of hydrocarbon benefit do you see going into ‘16 versus ‘15? Hey Don as you know once you divested the commodity chemical business our gas consumption dropped materially.
A dollar change in natural gas for us is $15 million to $20 million a year.
On the cost side we do have some customer price indexing that mutes that whether it be up or down.
So really gas price changes are not material impact for us in any individual quarter.
We don’t buy a lot of hydrocarbon materials for coatings production.
We do have logistics cost so diesel cost is important to us in our distribution businesses.
We do see some benefit there as oil moves down.
It takes a lot of pass-through.
We are seeing some inflation in trucker salaries.
So right now those probably are moving equal and opposite directions.
The next question comes from Mike Harrison of Seaport Global Securities.
Please go ahead.
Michael I was wondering if you could talk about competitive dynamics you’re seeing in the auto refinish business.
As you look to expand share what does that mean in terms of what’s going on with pricing? The refinish business is a beautiful model from the standpoint that we have thousands and thousands and thousands of little customers.
And what that means is that all -- we always have a price up opportunity this year -- in 2015 we had a price increase in August.
We would expect to have another price increase sometime in the third quarter of 2016.
This has been an industry trend for quite some period of time.
I don’t know that I can ever remember the time that refinished business hasn’t had a price increase.
So that’s a positive but it’s not just PPG; I mean that’s an industry event as well.
And you’ve got to number too that pricing is just only one element in terms of winning a new business.
PPG is known obviously for the color matching and the service capabilities the things that we do really well.
And it’s the technologies change and go more to waterborne and so on that plays to PPG’s advantages.
And then looking over to the packaging coating side you noted last quarter that you were going to be lapping the introduction of interior can coatings in that business.
But it sounds like you saw straight despite what sounded like was going to be a challenging comp in that business.
Can you talk about the uptick that you are seeing in the non-intent BPA coatings? How much additional runway does that have and are you capturing any additional exterior coating business as a result of the interior product? Hey Mike this is Vince.
We did see difficult comparable in Europe in the fourth quarter this year as they were prepping last year in the fourth quarter for the legislative change in France.
So that was actually our lowest growth region this year due to the tough comp it still grew year over year.
But we had mid single digit or higher in the other regions as customers continue to roll this out around the world.
And we still see very good runway; we’re still in the infancy of this product introduction and this has no impact on the outside of the can.
So that’s still being competed based on the similar metrics it was in the past similar customer metrics it was in the past.
The next question comes from Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Just a question on pricing you said for ‘15 you expected to be flat it looks like you’re up 25 basis points.
But if I’m remembering the trend through the year it seemed to decelerate a bit in the second third and fourth quarter and you’re anticipating being flat again next year.
So if you could give us a sense of maybe on an end market basis or if you’re having to pass through some costs just sort of what the dynamics are that sort of caused the deceleration through the year and then how we should be thinking about the cadence in ‘16 as well? Vincent if you look at -- you described the situation accurately.
We did have call it less than 1% in Q1 and we ended the year just very modestly over zero.
We do re-price with new product introductions.
We do have some customers where we talk about price annually.
And again our situation as we look at it today is base case of flat price all in for the year.
There are certain markets where we do get price as Michael mentioned.
There are other markets that are more competitive.
So we’re expecting flat price.
We won’t go into individual customers individual businesses.
That’s been our customary pattern not to talk about this.
And then just a quick one on -- there was a comment on challenges in the independent dealer channel in the U.S.
Could you just speak to those a little bit more? And what’s you’re doing to change that? Sure Vincent this is Michael again.
Independent dealers channel has been a declining channel for quite some period of time.
These are small -- a lot of them are small business owners; as they retire they would rather sell out to the large paint companies.
Plus as you know large retail partners continue to win share from that segment.
So it has been under pressure for a long time.
We do not expect that trend to change.
And so I think you can expect to be that going forward.
So there was nothing incrementally different about what you saw in the quarter versus the test? Okay.
Thanks very much.
Very similar and the contraction rate remains minor but continues.
The next question comes from Ghansham Panjabi of Baird.
Please go ahead.
First off on Comex.
Michael you gave us a nice update on the integration.
What about market conditions in Mexico and Central America as a whole? Has there been any deviation in the trend line there? Let’s start with Mexico the one slowing trend has been the government spending.
The spending from the consumer has been very solid.
We saw good gains all across our network whether it’s in the north or the south.
We added 190 stores.
It was a very good year for the Comex team up high single digits for the year.
So that was really job well done by them.
In Central America we’re in seven small countries there.
Those seven all seven had positive year-over-year growth.
And two of them we had particularly high growth rates but that was the introduction of our new Glidden product down there and that was specifically Panama and Costa Rica.
We would expect to grow faster in those two particular countries than we would the others.
The others should be at a GDP kind of run rate.
But overall I would say both Mexico and Central America continue to be good markets for us overall.
And then on U.S.
architectural and I am sorry if I missed this.
But can you give us a sense as to how that business performed in the big box channel and also retail stores? Also any benefit from the warmer weather in the country during the fourth quarter? And also how would you characterize the pricing environment by channel at current? Thanks so much.
I think we covered a lot of this originally but the combined U.S.-Canada stores network was slightly flat.
It was obviously held back by Canada.
So that was our challenge there.
We’ve had positive growth with our DIY partners in the quarter.
There was probably some material improvement due to weather but not as much as you would think because obviously they’re destocking at that period of time so they probably took that opportunity to continue to move down.
But all in all we do think weather was a positive in the fourth quarter.
And then we talked about the dealers just recently.
So I think overall we’ve been performing slightly under the markets; if you say the market was 2% to 3% we were 1 tick below that.
The next question comes from Nils Wallin of CLSA.
Please go ahead.
First would you remind us where you are in achieving all those various Comex cost revenue and Central America synergies? The cost synergies we laid out were $45 million to $50 million and we are on our pace to beat that number so that’s good.
On the sales synergies in the Mexican market we said that number was going to be $40 million to $50 million; those are PPG products through the Comex concessionaire network.
We are solidly on pace to achieve those numbers.
And then the Central America number was $60 million to $70 and basis the most recent quarter I am very comfortable with that number that we put out there.
It’s obviously early; we just closed on that acquisition in July but the fourth quarter is a busy season down there and we had a very good fourth quarter in the Central American market.
And then just in terms of the cash deployment guidance obviously last quarter you’ve moved it up at the bottom end and then reiterated it this quarter.
I am curious as to how you’re thinking about next in ‘16; what would be the factors that would allow it or cause it to be below what you’ve done in ‘15 or above what you’ve done in ‘15? And then what you think the mix will be; is it likely to be more repurchases or more repurchases than M&amp;A or is the likely to change? So if you look at what we did in ‘15 and we basically came in at half of what the midpoint of the range we reiterated so 1.15 as compared with 2 to 2.5 for the three year period.
And as always the mix between the share repurchases and the acquisitions will depend on what we have in the pipeline and the timing of any -- closing of any particular acquisition.
We’ve continually said we have a really nice robust pipeline of things that we continue to look at around the various regions and the various businesses from an acquisition standpoint and that would be our preference do accretive acquisitions.
But as always at any given quarter that mix will change.
And I think it’s safe to assume that while we like to focus on the acquisitions that share repurchases will continue to be an integral part of our capital deployment strategy and no reason believe that will not continue including this quarter.
And just also what would -- would it just be the acquisition timing that would cause it to be above or below that midpoint or is there something else? We look at the whole landscape between what we have available and acquisition pipeline and also in the deployment.
And really it starts with what our cash from operations that we generate is going to be.
And what we said as we came up with that range because we know how much cash we’ll have to deploy and we fully intend to be midpoint in that range and the only thing would change the mix is the timing of acquisitions.
But the absolute dollars we intend to bring in within that $2 billion and $2.5 billion range.
The next question comes from Laurence Alexander of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
This is Dan Rizzo on for Laurence.
Just one question so some of your competitors have talked about going from sole sourcing to dual sourcing as a means to reduce raw materials cost.
Is that something you guys are looking into or would it be suitable for you; I mean how much of your raw materials are currently sole sourced? Well I wouldn’t want to get into the percentage that’s either one of those but I’d tell you that we’re consistently working with our suppliers to have maximum flexibility on how we formulate and how we work with our suppliers.
So I’d tell you we’re very comfortable with where we are.
And then one more quick one.
I think you just indicated that you opened 190 new stores in Mexico through Comex in 2015.
Is that going to be the pace going forward is that going to moderated at all or are those accelerating some color? We’re expecting to open up 150 to 170 stores in 2016.
So we’d originally thought we’d do 170 this year we actually did a 190.
So we might have pulled forward one or two but I’d still think we’re going to be in the similar type of a range.
And the next question comes from Dmitry Silversteyn of Longbow Research.
Please go ahead.
A lot of my questions have been answered but I’d like to follow-up on a couple of points.
First of all in fourth quarter aerospace weakness that you mentioned was that related to new builds or was that on the rebate part of the business? I know they are usually 50-50 for you.
But I was just wondering where the weakness in the quarter came from.
The weakness was really one part of it.
I divided it into two parts.
One part of it was because in the fourth quarter 2014 we had a government annuity double order whether they tried to use up all their budget or not we’re not that -- we’re not able to predict but we do know they double ordered.
And then the other half of the slowdown was due to our sealants business.
We have a customer that had a large new plane that they were working on and they’ve gotten more consistent in ordering and their work practices have gotten slightly better.
So their waste has declined marginally.
So now that that’s more stable we see that returning back to a year-over-year growth.
The only thing about aerospace is the general aviation market is very strong for the big planes and slightly weak for the little planes.
So it sounds like it was more a new builds rather than sort of maintenance.
So it would imply that the overall industry is still in pretty good shape.
Yes Boeing is expected -- I think you probably listen their commentary both guys are trying to increase the production rate.
So they both had eight-year backlogs.
So it’s not like they don’t have a business.
Yes we do expect aerospace return to growth as Michael mentioned earlier.
And again just to give you the Q4 ‘14 comp we were up high single digits in aerospace last year; that’s a comp Michael is comparing against.
On the Comex store openings are these being opened by existing concessionaries are you signing new concessionaries or are these company-owned stores I guess for lack of better word and just trying to understand where the source of growth is and how it’s being supported by corporate versus concessionaries? There are no company-owned stores in Mexico.
We have a dedicated concessionaire network.
We do not ever plan to be in the company store business in Mexico.
It is a combination of both some of our long term concessionaire partners as well as some new ones.
So we have a lot of people that would like to have a store.
And so we are very very selective of our about finding those entrepreneurs that are going to live eat sleep selling Comex paint.
And that’s our desire and we make sure we find the right people and it is the combination of both existing and new.
So it sounds like sort of the hopper is being filled by people on the ground in Mexico and then it’s sort of up to you to figure out who gets it and who doesn’t; is that how the business model works? This is definitely owned by Marcos Achar and his leadership team.
All I do is bless it.
Okay.
They are way better at this than anybody else.
And then speaking of packaging and the shares that you picked up there inside of a can I’m assuming you talked about sort of gaining shares in Europe last year and I guess in 2015 it was more the turn of the U.S.
if I understand your commentary correctly.
So I know that back a couple of years ago when you had your special day on packaging you talked about zero percentage inside the can market share in the U.S.
What is your market share in the U.S.
currently with this 9 and 10 BPA transition taking place? Well what we told you was that we had a 3% global market share.
I don’t know that I want to get into what our market share is now.
But I would call 3% not the material; and what we have now is defiantly material but it is a substantial double digit kind of increase.
And our customers are excited about what we bring to the table from a technology standpoint.
More importantly they are excited about our ability to launch flawlessly these new products.
And that gives them a lot of comfort in giving us the business.
On the performance coatings and fourth quarter margins they were a little bit lighter than I would have expected and the year-over-year improvement wasn’t what you saw in the previous three quarters.
Was that just a matter of mix and the aerospace business being not as strong in performance coatings or was there something else going on with margins there? Dmitry the sole factor there was the fact that we lapped Comex.
So for the other three quarters this Comex which comes in at above segment margin was a true adder.
We only have one month of that benefit in Q4 because we closed the Comex acquisition in November last year’s.
Okay so that was entirely Comex related fine.
And on the glass side of the business I’m assuming it’s the lower energy costs that are driving these mid teens margins that you haven’t seen as far as my model goes to 2001? No the energy -- most of the energy in glass is on an index.
And so this is coming from true pricing in the marketplace.
As you know supply and demand is relatively tight.
One of our competitors closed the furnace in California.
We sold our facility in the Midwest.
And so with the reduction in industry capacity pricing has been attractive in that segment.
And then finally as a sort of a longer-term as I think about your cash flow your working capital as a percentage of sales really has come down meaningfully over the last five years; I think it’s almost half of what it used to be as a percentage of sales at just over 6% here in 2015.
Do you have a longer term goal or is this the level that you are happy with or is there an expectation that maybe given all the growth you have that working capital will go up as a percentage of sales in future years? Well our goal is still to bring working capital down as a percent of sales.
And you are correct over last two years we brought it down by about $300 million; about half of it was payables including supplier financing programs and about half was inventory where we took out about five days of operational inventories this year and we’ve also improved the quality of the receivables by working down the percentage of past-dues.
So we are pleased with that and we still have a several days to go we can get out of inventories and keep working on past-due receivables.
So the goal would be continue to bring down working capital by kind of on average of 100 basis points a year for the next couple of years.
And then we think we will be kind in line with the peer group.
And what would your CapEx guidance be for 2016? One final question.
We couldn’t hear you Dmitry.
Could you repeat? What would the CapEx guidance be for 2016 what you expect to spend on capital expenditures? As we put in our presentation 3% to 3.5% of sales would be our… 3% to 3.5% okay.
Okay fair enough.
Thank you guys.
As we are out of time I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Scott Minder for any closing remarks.
Thank you The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may disconnect.