Good morning and welcome to the PPL Corporation Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions).
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Joe Bergstein Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the PPL conference call on fourth quarter results and our general business outlook.
We are providing slides to this presentation on our website at www.pplweb.com.
Any statements made in this presentation about future operating results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
A discussion of the factors that could cause actual results or events to vary is contained in the appendix to this presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Spence PPL's Chairman President and CEO.
Thanks Joe.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
On the call with me are Paul Farr PPL's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and three of our four Presidents for our business segments; Rick Klingensmith was unable to join us today.
My opening remarks will cover 2013 earnings our 2014 earnings forecast and operational highlights.
I will ask Paul to cover our financial results in more detail including the performance by segment and of course we look forward to your questions at the end.
Let's start with the announced dividend increase effective with the April 1 payment.
The new annualized rate will be $1.49 per share up from $1.47 per share previously.
This increase represents the twelfth increase in 13 years and reflects a 181% increase over that period.
Turning to earnings; today we announced 2013 reported earnings of $1.76 per share compared to $2.60 a share a year ago.
Adjusting for special items are earnings from ongoing operations were $2.45 per share exceeding both the top end of our 2013 forecast and our 2012 earnings from ongoing operations.
The most significant special item was a fourth quarter after tax charge of $0.62 per share related to the termination of a lease agreement for the Colstrip power plant in Montana.
That lease termination will facilitate the previously announced sale of our Montana hydroelectric assets to Northwestern Energy.
For the fourth quarter I reported loss of $0.16 per share including the Colstrip lease termination charge.
Quarterly earnings from ongoing operations were $0.60 per share an increase from $0.49 per share a year ago.
We exceeded the top end of our 2013 ongoing earnings forecast range because of the exceptional performance of each business segment.
We saw increased earnings from each of the three regulated segments and continued aggressive measures in our competitive energy Supply business to reduce operating expenses and optimize the value of our competitive generating facilities.
I am very pleased with -- (inaudible).
Turning to Slide 5 today we are announcing a 2014 earnings forecast of $2.05 per share to $2.25 per share with the midpoint of $2.15 per share.
The strength of our regulated businesses provides a solid foundation for company earnings with substantial well-defined prospects for future growth.
Paul will provide details on the earnings forecast by segment in his prepared remarks.
On Slide 6 we have highlighted some of the key operational accomplishments of our regulated businesses.
We have been committed to improving earned returns across all of our jurisdictions and in Kentucky our earned regulatory ROE was 10.17% for 2013.
The solid performance was driven by an increase in base rates partially offset by regulatory lag on non-ECR spending and inflationary increases.
In the UK we continue to deliver solid returns with an earned ROE including the effects of goodwill of 17.8% in 2013 a direct result of our frontier operational performance.
And in Pennsylvania we improved our transmission and distribution combined regulatory ROE to 10.42% through effective cost management and higher revenues.
Of course our GAAP to ROE is a bit lower in Pennsylvania due to some items that are not recoverable in rates.
In November we learned that the eight year business plans for all four of our western power distribution subsidiaries were found suitable for accelerated condition or fast tracking under RIO-ED1.
Our well justified business plans reflect WPD's operational excellence on reliability costs and customer satisfaction which our U.K.
management has delivered for years and continues to achieve today.
Our WPD subsidiaries are ranked as the top four distribution network operators in Ofgem's broad measure of customer satisfaction thus far in the current regulatory year.
Turning back to the U.S.; we continued progress on major infrastructure projects including the Susquehanna-Roseland transmission line in Pennsylvania environmental upgrades at our Kentucky power plants and construction of a combined cycle natural gas generating plant at our Cane Run facility in Louisville.
Our company also recently achieved significant regulatory milestones for two other important infrastructure projects.
The Pennsylvania PUC has approved construction of a $335 million reliability upgrade in the Pocono Mountain Region that includes approximately 60 miles of new transmission lines and three new substations.
And in January we filed a request with the Kentucky Public Service Commission for approval of a second natural gas combined cycle power plant and a 10-megawatt solar energy facility.
These generation projects total more than $700 million and will provide our Kentucky customers with reliable low cost generation that meets the latest EPA regulations.
Turning to distribution and sales on Slide 7; you will see the total weather normalized sales in the fourth quarter increased in both Kentucky and Pennsylvania from a year ago driven by higher industrial load.
In Kentucky some of our automotive and steel customers maintained production levels in the fourth quarter with fewer maintenance shutdowns than we had in 2012.
In Pennsylvania higher industrial sales were primarily a result of increased usage from the steel and cement industries due to commercial and industrial expansion projects in the region.
On an annual basis sales in both states were relatively flat driven by energy efficiency measures and regional economic conditions.
For 2014 we project load growth between 0.5% to 1% at both our Kentucky and Pennsylvania utilities.
Taking a look at slide 8; I have already mentioned the agreement to sell PPL Montana's 11 hydro plants to Northwestern Energy and that proceeds from that sale will enable us to reduce financing needs for future capital investment and our rate regulated business segments.
Our Susquehanna nuclear plant achieved record output in the fourth quarter operating at a capacity factor of 100%.
We increased our total generation output at the facility by 12% in 2013 as we continue to analyze and assess detailed information on the performance of the turbines for both units.
We will be installing additional modifications this spring to address blade cracking issues with a goal to allow the units to run without repair for their full two year operating cycles.
Finally we continued our management of operating expenses at our Supply business by reducing costs by $40 million in 2013.
We expect to keep O&amp;M essentially flat through 2016.
Before turning over the call to Paul I'd like to give you a summary of some of our 2014 objectives.
I have already mentioned approval of the northeast Pocono transmission line by the PaPUC in January.
This is a key step towards strengthening reliability in the region.
And our Susquehanna-Roseland transmission project remains on budget and on time for a mid-2015 in-service date.
In the U.K.
we expect the final determination from Ofgem on fast track business plan approval for all four of our distribution networks by the end of February and the decision on the cost of equity reveal the week of February 17th.
In Kentucky we are analyzing the potential for a rate case filing to keep pace with our significant investment in the state; and we will continue to invest in our regulator infrastructure to ensure safe reliable electric delivery.
Finally we will continue our focus to manage costs and Supply and maintain positive earnings in that business.
So in summary 2013 was an exceptional year for PPL.
We executed very well on our extensive construction plans and delivered strong earnings results including ROEs above 10% at all three of our utility businesses.
We continue to deliver on our commitments to customers as well with numerous awards in 2013 for our outstanding customer service safety and reliability positioning the company for continued success.
For 2014 we are confident in our ability to achieve our earnings forecast and the colder weather has provided a good start.
I look forward to your questions and I will now turn the call over to Paul.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
Let's move to slide 10; our strong fourth quarter reflects higher earnings from each of our operating segments compared to 2012.
Quarterly earnings at our regulated businesses increased driven by improved gross margins due to higher base rates in Kentucky higher U.K.
revenues on higher prices and higher transmission margins in Pennsylvania due to capital investments in grid infrastructure.
In the Supply business we experienced improved quarterly earnings primarily due to higher nuclear generation output and higher capacity prices partially offset by lower baseload energy prices.
Full year 2013 earnings from ongoing operations increased over last year due to strong performance from our domestic and U.K.
utilities.
This performance was partially offset by the expected lower supply segment earnings and dilution of $0.27 per share.
Let's move now to a more detailed review of 2013 segment earnings drivers starting with Kentucky on slide 11.
Kentucky earned $0.48 per share in 2013 a $0.15 increase compared to 2012.
This increase was due to higher retail margins primarily due to higher base rates that went into effect on January 1 last year for LG&amp;E and KU and higher earnings from environmental CapEx.
These positive margin drivers were partially offset by higher depreciation and dilution of $0.04 per share.
Moving to slide 12; our U.K.
business earned $1.32 per share in 2013 a $0.13 increase over 2012.
This increase was due to higher utility revenue primarily due to the April 1 price increase that impacted all four of our utilities and lower U.K.
income taxes as a result of a lower effective tax rate; partially offset by higher O&amp;M expense largely due to higher network maintenance costs higher depreciation due to higher network investments and dilution of $0.14 per share.
Turning now to slide 13; our Pennsylvania regulated segment earned $0.31 per share in 2013 a $0.09 increase over 2012.
This increase was due to higher distribution rates that went into effect on January 1 of 2013 higher transmission margins and lower O&amp;M primarily due to lower storm and support troop costs partially offset by higher depreciation and dilution of $0.04 per share.
Finishing with Supply on slide 14 for the detailed driver revenue this segment earned $0.39 per share in 2013 a year-over-year decrease of $0.29 per share.
This decrease was primarily due to lower energy margins driven by lower energy prices partially offset by higher capacity prices and increased nuclear generation output.
Higher depreciation and higher income taxes primarily due to state tax rate changes.
Partially offsetting these drivers was lower O&amp;M primarily due to lower outage spending.
Segment results also include dilution of $0.05 per share.
Turning to slide 15; we have prepared a walk from our $2.45 per share in actual 2013 ongoing earnings to the $2.15 per share midpoint of our 2014 forecast.
Starting with Pennsylvania regulated we expect higher margin to drive a significant increase in earnings in 2014 primarily due to transmission investments including a substantial amount of work on the Susquehanna-Roseland line.
In addition we expect an increase in distribution revenue due to a full year benefit of the DISC mechanism in 2014.
In the U.K.
we anticipate flat earnings year-over-year including a four set negative impact as a result of our voluntary agreement with the U.K.
Department of Energy and Climate Change and Ofgem and voluntarily reduce residential customer bills by GBP5 per customer on an annual basis.
As a reminder these revenues will be collected in future regulatory years including a full carrying charge for the deferral.
U.K.
regulated segment earning drivers are a net result of increased revenues due to higher prices and higher incentive revenues.
Lower O&amp;M due to reduced pension expense.
Higher depreciation higher financing costs and higher income tax expense.
In Kentucky we expect lower earnings in 2014 primarily due to higher O&amp;M higher depreciation and higher financing costs partially offset by improved margins driven by environmental CapEx and modest retail load growth.
Finally in Supply we expect lower earnings primarily due to lower energy margins as a result of lower energy and capacity prices and higher depreciation expense.
These negative drivers in Supply are partially offset by lower financing costs and lower income taxes.
One additional data point for you regarding supply for 2014 our forecast assumes a sale of the Montana hydro portfolio at the end of third quarter of this year.
On slide 16; we provide updates on our free cash flow before dividends.
Actual 2013 free cash flow before dividends was about $325 million higher than the projection we provided last February.
The primary drivers of the net increase include higher cash from operations at our regulated businesses including the benefit of higher anticipated earnings and lower capital expenditures at our supply segment.
Partially offset by payments related to determination of the Colstrip power plant lease.
Looking at 2014 we are projecting an increase in our free cash flow primarily driven by proceeds from the pending sale of the Montana hydro facilities.
In addition we expect cash from operation to increase due to lower deferred taxes and lower pension contributions and we also expect slightly lower capital expenditures in 2014 mainly in Kentucky.
Our planned capital expenditures for 2014 through 2018 are detailed on slide 17 with regulated utility investment totaling almost $17 billion over that period.
This includes previously announced initiatives such as U.K.
spending for our filed RIO-ED1 business plans; executing on our environmental compliance plans in Kentucky to meet EPA regulations and the construction of two combined cycle gas utilities as well as updating and modernizing ageing infrastructure in Pennsylvania.
In addition our revised plan reflects incremental transmission investment of over $650 million in Pennsylvania through 2017 including $400 million for our improved system reliability programs that identify areas to strategically approve system performance including adding more automation to our transmission assets and $250 million for our asset optimization programs to enhance or rebuild existing transmission assets to ensure their continued reliable performance.
Turning to slide 18; our updated investment plan drives a CAGR of about 7% in our projected rate base through 2018 driving value for both customers and shareholders.
Finally on slide 19 our Board approved a $0.02 increase in our common stock dividend increasing it to $1.49 per share on an annualized basis as Bill mentioned effective with the April 1 dividend.
This dividend level represents a 69% payout ratio based on the midpoint of our 2014 earnings forecast and the dividend is solidly covered by earnings from our rate regulated businesses.
That's the end of my prepared remarks and I will now turn the call back over to Bill for the Q&amp;A period.
Thank you Paul and operator we are now ready to accept questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question comes from Kit Konolige of BGC.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Kit.
So to follow a little bit on the projection of cash flow and CapEx.
So in 2014 as you have described Paul the proceeds from the sale of the hydro assets gets you into positive territory on free cash flow before dividends.
In our projections going forward after 2014 you would continue to have a pretty significant deficit in that free cash flow before dividends.
Can you talk a little bit about your financing plans for the significant rate base growth that you are talking about? Sure.
I think we have covered this in prior calls.
We have front-ended quite a bit of the equity with the converged securities.
We had the $1.150 billion that converted this past year mid year and we have got another almost $1 billion plus the equity forward that we did this past year.
And then we have got almost $1 billion that's converting mid-year this year.
You talked about the $900 million pre-tax that's expected from the sale of the hydro facilities.
So as we look at our target credit metrics we look at the internal cash flow which as we move towards the back end of the plan from a domestic regulated utility perspective gets much improved from where we sit today given that we are starting to harvest cash from these significant investments that we are making in the infrastructure.
We do get real time recovery of a very significant majority of the CapEx across the regulated utility space the regulated utility segment.
So at this point in time we don't forecast the need for equity beyond basically what we have already got submitted to the company.
Okay.
And can you talk to us a little bit about the outlook for rate cases in Kentucky and Pennsylvania and the latest on the RIO proceedings? I think we had that update at the end of February I think on RIO on the ROE issue? Yeah starting with the U.K.
on that point Kit we do expect the week of February 17 to have some signal on the ROE issue and then final determination for our fast tracking by the end of the month.
I will ask Vic Staffieri to cover the Kentucky rate case outlook and then following that Greg Dudkin for the PA outlook.
Sure.
Kit we are looking at a rate case.
We are analyzing the notion of the rate case filing some time in 2014 and we are in the process of that analysis right now.
We are taking into account of what the capital construction and are not otherwise covered by our (inaudible) as well as this test period that we are looking at right now.
We haven't made a determination when we would final the amount but its something we are certainly considering for 2014.
Okay.
And this is Greg Dudkin on Pennsylvania.
We do not intend to file our rate case in 2014 and we will continue to look at the needs beyond 2014.
Okay.
Thank you.
And from Dan Eggers of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Dan.
Hey good morning guys.
Wrong phone.
Just I guess real quick on the filing of the fast track decision.
What information do you guys expect Ofgem to provide as far as detailed financials and rate structure and kind of the transparency into what that full package looks like relative to what you guys gave last July when you provided the earnings outlook? Well I think just as a general proposition we don't expect a lot of changes because the plans themselves have been deemed as accepted as filed.
So the key piece that we are looking for is what they may decide on an ROE basis.
So we do expect that to be a constructive outcome.
We know that based on our past experience that they have been very balanced.
They recognize our need to finance these companies and maintain strong financial metrics across the board both for equity as well as for the debt side.
So we are hopeful that the outcome when we get it the week of February 17 will be a constructive one.
Then I guess Bill just on the $0.04 drag this year because of the customer rebate.
Do we add $0.04 on to next year so this is the one time recalibration down and then you guys should earn that back so we should -- to normalize where the U.K.
is? Yes.
This is Paul.
It will be spread over a couple of years but yeah we will get full recovery of that including an equity carry component to the charge.
It's really just pulling forward some of the benefit of the rate reduction that was otherwise going to happen with the shaping of revenues.
And as long as we are able to get that full carry we were economically neutral and we were happy to do it.
Got it.
I guess just you know maybe Paul or Bill could you give an update on the thought process around Supply kind of evaluating your options and where you see that business setting out and maybe when we will hear the decision on strategic future? Sure.
As you know our current plan is to optimize the plants and we are continuing to aggressively look at our cost structure and our operations to optimize the value of the fleet.
Having said that we are certainly open to other opportunities and routinely assess the potential for adding further value in the supply business and with the overall portfolio in total.
So we are willing to execute on opportunities as evidenced by our decision to sell the Montana hydroelectric plants.
Do you think there is a point Bill where you guys make an affirmative decision whether Supply is part of PPL on a long run basis or whether its not part of PPL -- I guess for a lack of a better word is this just going to be a wait and see and we are going to bug you with this question every quarter? I do get this question every quarter.
We do think there is inherent value in this high quality fleet that we operate in upside potential when we see the energy markets begin to recover.
We are continuing on the plan to maintain a positive EPS contribution from that business to the company and continue to believe that can be accomplished.
But we are looking for opportunities to enhance the value all the time and continue to assess options.
I think its an ongoing process.
There is no end date in mind its continuous and we will continue to assess options for that business.
Okay.
Got it.
Thank you guys.
Our next question is from Julien Dumoulin-Smith of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Can you hear me? Yes.
Good morning.
Excellent.
Is this the implied ROEs on your 2014 guidance for the Pennsylvania and Kentucky utilities? Can you talk about that for a quick second? For 2014 we will look at between 8.5% and 9%.
And Greg in Pennsylvania? From a regulatory perspective both combining T&amp;D its about 10.8%.
Excellent.
And then going back to the supply business could you talk a little bit more about the blade situation just what the game plan is (inaudible) spring in terms of outage timing and impact.
Perhaps you could talk about that? Sure.
I will ask Dave DeCampli to cover that.
Yes Julien there is two outages planned for this spring.
We will be taking one unit off just to do some modifications for the turbine blade situation.
That will be a relatively short outage during the month of March.
Basically we are going inside the turbine housings and removing some of the riveting in there that disrupts the seam flow.
We will also be replacing the turbine blades in that unit to assure that we can get a full year run till it connects refuel cycle in the spring of 2015.
Unit 1 comes off for its refill outage and within the scope of the refill outage we will actually be doing a different modification to the -- this last rope of [suspect] turbine blades will be installing a shorter redefined blade that we believe will be likely part of the permanent solution.
So the shorter blades will be installed and it would be done inside the confines of the refuel outage duration in April and into early May.
So we are doing two modifications one on one unit one on the other unit both of which we think will contribute to the permanent solution to run two years cycle to cycle.
Great excellent.
Could you talk about how much that costs in terms of -- in your CapEx budget and perhaps from a DTH perspective if we were to normalize that out in 15 hours [27:42] just to make sure we are not capturing that on a go forward basis? Sure.
The impact last year with the multiple outages we had to take was about $30 million net income after tax impact.
Forecast going forward for 2014 would be a little more than half of that and then of course in performance year 2015 we expect to run full cycle.
The maintenance CapEx around those (inaudible) is not significant relative to the normal budget for Susquehanna.
Excellent.
And actually since we are on the subject of CapEx could you talk about a little bit the shift in your 2014 CapEx budget? What exactly drove that? It looks like its WPD? WPD was a small amount.
We provided that update at the time we filed the business plan in July.
It's gone up a small amount.
Most of the rest of it is relatively consistent with what the prior expected spending was.
We did add as I said earlier between 14 and 17 $650 million of transmission CapEx.
So the maroon bar on slide 17 that's a little more back ended.
But we do some level of increased spending starting in 2014.
Great.
And then just lastly from a CapEx perspective on timing of Susquehanna-Roseland CapEx.
Should we expect a very disproportionate jump in earnings at the Pennsylvania utility? Just so you can just try to make sure we capture that project coming online and all that? Its about -- of the improvements the significant increase in margins what I talked about for 2014 on that earnings log slide.
Susquehanna to Roseland was about $0.04 to $0.05 of that total amount.
So it’s the single biggest driver and then the DISC program was about $0.02.
Great.
And this should be continuing every year right? To be clear? Yes.
That's correct.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Our next question is from Neil Mitra of Tudor Pickering.
Please go ahead.
Pickering Holt</strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Neel.
Pickering Holt</strong> Paul you referenced the $650 million in CapEx for transmission.
Could you talk more about what those projects entail as there are smaller projects and whether you need approval or you can just file them through your formula rates? Sure.
Let me have Greg address that.
Yeah.
These are all projects on our existing facility so its basically rebuilding our older facilities.
We had some transmission lines that were built in the 1920s so its basically rebuilding those lines reconductoring those lines.
As well as about $400 million for improving reliability which means things like having automated switches transmission switches better relays that type of thing.
They are all going to be recovered through the formula rate.
Pickering Holt</strong> And what ROE are you assuming you get on these? Now it is 11.68.
Pickering Holt</strong> And then are there more projects on the horizon that you think you can add or is this kind of the -- and with the $650 million? Well this is our best look right now at our plant.
So this is what we see as prudent investment.
If there are other opportunities that arise we will take a look at those.
Pickering Holt</strong> Got it.
And then around O&amp;M optimization at the Supply business could you talk about what you are specifically targeting whether its reducing O&amp;M around Susquehanna and maybe what the normalized O&amp;M inflation will be going forward at Supply? Sure as I indicated earlier we did take out $40 million in costs last year in 2013.
The items are really more related to the Fossil Fleet than they are to Susquehanna.
We are not reducing O&amp;M costs at Susquehanna.
And on an ongoing basis we are expecting flat O&amp;M at the moment.
But having said that we are going to continue to look aggressively at ways we can reduce costs (inaudible) taking out the inflationary pressure.
Pickering Holt</strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
Sure.
Our next question is from Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning Paul.
A lot of questions have been asked and answered.
I just wanted to -- just in terms of the trading volume that you guys see in 2014 versus 2013 just the -- call it vortex or what have you some more volatility.
Any change in the outlook or anything that you could share with us? I would say the only change there is more volatility obviously in the forwards which to some degree we have taken advantage of by layering some more hedges for 2015.
We are already fairly highly hedged coming into 2014.
But we were able to take advantage of that at hedge price levels that are at or above our business plan.
So that had a positive impact.
If you look at the overall mix between our generation of retail the net effect of the weather in January we expect to be positive although we have not closed the books yet for January but on a net basis we still expect January to be positive to our EPS.
Okay.
And then what sort of a forecast for trading volume in 2014 versus 2013? Has there been a change in that or how should we feel about that? No.
Pretty much the same no change.
As you know for us it’s a fairly immaterial part of the overall earnings and business mix.
Okay.
Now with respect to the transmission spend should we expect any significant change in transmission capability or is this just pretty much reliability kind of spending when you are talking about this reconductoring or what have you? Well I think from a capability Susquehanna-Roseland is a big piece.
The other ones are improved reliability of our system.
So its improving the reliability supply within our system within PJM.
Okay.
Then finally the RPM outlook.
Given that we now have that GR ruling plan parameters come out MOPR exemptions could you -- would you like to share with us what your thoughts are about what's going to be coming after (inaudible)? Well with the planning parameters having just come out we are still in the process of assessing and modeling what does it mean for PPL and the poll in general.
So we haven't completed that work year but we are continuing to take a look at what all this is likely to mean.
So unfortunately I can't give you even a best guess at this point about what we think until we finish that modeling.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question is from Paul Ridzon of KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Can you just -- I don't want to beat on Montana too much but have you had expressions of interest have you shopped it around and where in the process are we? Well on the hydro asset sale let me just start there.
That process is moving ahead as we had anticipated.
Both state and federal applications have been filed.
Back in late December Northwestern Energy submitted their application to the Montana PSC and there will be a discovery process followed by a public hearing which is scheduled for early July at this point.
We would expect the final FERC order by June which is what we have requested and we expect the Montana PSC to rule hopefully by around the September timeframe.
For the rest of the assets remaining out there we are just continuing to assess what options we have for those and there is really no new update on that front at the moment.
All [parties] have touched on this a little bit but how much did the volatility hurt the retail business? Again on a net basis for us with the fleet that we have and with the retail it’s a net positive for us.
But clearly there is a drag on the retail end.
I don't really have figures on exactly as I mentioned we haven't closed the books yet for January so its really premature to give you a number.
But clearly we expect it to be a net drag on the retail front offset by a very positive outcome on the generating fleet side.
In between load following and retail only a couple of thousand megawatts.
If you go back to the kind of 2008 shopping timeframe experience and everything that happened in that window when the liquidity kind of drained up; retail and load following is a relatively small component of the total hedge book and we expect -- to keep it at those levels growing organically and modestly.
So you probably are -- you may be trying to triangulate what others are experiencing but it’s a small piece of PPL.
Got it.
So (inaudible) that long? Yes.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question is from Steven Fleishman of Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Hi guys.
Just a question on the CapEx and rate base slide.
It looks like your CapEx over the next four years is up over $1 billion but the rate base numbers are actually pretty much the same or even a little lower in the initial years.
Could you explain that? I am just kind of taking a quick look at those slides right now.
The U.K.
is up a bit in terms of kind of improved FX assumptions and other things that we have layered on.
I talked about at the front-end the $650 million -- actually when you wrap in 18 versus where we originally thought 18 was going to be at transmission and distribution reliability in Pennsylvania is up by almost $1 billion.
We will have to get back to you in terms of that net increase and looking at 17.
We were at roughly 28.
Some of this transmission spend does go in more towards the back end so you wouldn't start to see that until we are being [gathered] in till we get closer to the back end.
But we can get back to you on the differential on the net rate base.
Okay.
Great.
And then on the -- could you just may be update us on your currency hedge position? Yes.
So for 2014 between the actuals and the books and where we sit with hedges we are in excess of 92% actually hedged for the current year and we are very materially hedged in the 70% to 80% range for 2015 as well.
Right around $1.59 for this year hedges and close t o$1.61 on next years.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you Steve.
Sure.
The next question is from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys congrats on a good quarter.
Got a question for you how are you thinking about O&amp;M and cost management? Once you kind of get the final ruling out of Ofgem in the U.K.
I mean over the years you have been one of the -- you've been basically the best operator from an O&amp;M and cost per megawatt hour and other metric performance.
How are you thinking about the ability and kind of the direction O&amp;M will take over the next seven or eight years in the U.K.? Sure I will let Paul answer on that one.
Yeah I would expect that we maintain the spending kind of for our plans including what was filed with the RIO-ED1 plan.
A lot of the costs the efficiency that we are able to get out of the Midlands has been taken out.
So I am certain that there are some modest things that we can do around continued supply chain optimization and other things.
But we spend the dollars on the network to create the reliability which drives our opportunity to outperform the bonus revenue targets.
And so everything that we look at is done on a complete cost benefit basis not for short term drivers and spending that we are doing in the Midlands now some of it is literally catch-up spending that EON hadn't performed and we will continue through that through the end of the DPCR5 period.
And then again the plan is to spend pursuant to the things that we are driving the net income numbers at -- that we provided on July 1 last year.
We will update those numbers once we can internalize the final RIO-ED1 outcome from a fast track perspective.
But I wouldn't see cost reduction efforts being material in the U.K.
as we move forward.
Okay.
I wanted to ask a question about lag in Kentucky.
I know you get the environmental costs are covered via the ECR what about the cost recovery on the two combined cycles? Is that only recovered via traditional GRCs or rate cases or given that some of that is being built to replace some of the retiring coal units any chance to eventually get recovery via a path to return mechanism? No.
Today they are only recoverable through general rate case.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Sure.
Our next question is from Gregg Orrill of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I guess you've really touched on this already but in Kentucky just drivers for the rate case filing that you are going to be making? I mean the driver is the new construction the combined cycles that we just discussed very briefly there.
Its going to be the -- how much capital investment we will spend between now and the end of the year we want to recover that obviously and so we are looking at what's the optimum time to file a case given the stream of expenditures as well as the test periods and what are the future rate years in the offerings.
So those are the analysis.
But it really will be driven by the capital investment that's not recoverable through the ECR.
Thanks.
You're welcome.
Our next question is from Nathan Judge if Atlantic Equities.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
I just had a question on Kentucky as well.
What's the current ROE for the last 12 months? 10.2.
10.2.
So is the reduction in earned ROE that you expect in 2014 related to regulatory lag or is it -- because that sounds quite a bit? It has got a log it has got increased OEM expenses because we have inflation we have wage increases.
We have got some additional outages that we didn't have in the 12 months ended 12/31/2013.
And then of course the additional capital spend that's otherwise recoverable through the ECR.
Those are the drivers.
As well as we have modest load growth.
We are using about 0.5%.
So we don't have that much load growth to offset inflation and wage increases and the like.
That's what's really driving it.
Okay.
And so kind of speaking beyond through 2015 and the flow-through of rate case.
I mean if you file this in 2014 when would we see returns get back to those levels that would be more acceptable? We generally look to file rate cases when we (inaudible) 9% on an ROE basis so we would -- if we filed in say June of 2014 new rates would go in effect on 1/1/2015.
So its about a six month lag between filing the case and the new rates going into effect.
Just generally on overall company could you just give us an idea of the swing in pension expense this year versus last? Yeah.
So for 2014 we'd expect across all the segments about a $0.07 improvement in pension running through the P&amp;L about a nickel of that in the U.K.
and then about $0.02 pretty much evenly split between Kentucky and then the balance of EU and Supply.
Okay.
Thank you.
Just finally on the Supply business especially on the retail.
Given that it is a small part we have seen from your peers that its not providing the kind of return to invested capital that other opportunities are posing for them.
How do you think of that business given how small it is and the kind of returns its obviously providing right now? Well the biggest value for us is really on the ability to hedge the output of some of our fleet.
So we look at it really as a tool that we can use among other tools to place the generation into the marketplace.
So that's the primary purpose of it.
I think in terms of incremental investments to go beyond that its not something that we are focused on.
We are obviously very focused on the regulated side of the business and incremental capital that we have is going into the regulated side of the business.
Is the capital employed and not (inaudible) business is more or less than what it would be if you went on and hedged it? It would be less than if we went out and just get straightforwards or collars where we'd -- on a mark-to-market basis to the extent that prices go against us and rise after we lay in those hedges.
We are posting collateral at the ICE and NYMEX and the exchanges given that the OTC side of things is pretty much kind of dried up.
So if we use the traditional hedges and we do -- as we do expect to see a rising price environment we'd be joint on LCs and cash postings to be able to meet those calls.
So on a working capital basis it consumes less.
So how much of your retail provides hedge to your overall generation then? Less than 20% I guess -- 9% and 14%.
Converging that it would make sense for you to increase that business right? Well yeah we have lived through.
We just got then answering a couple of questions on what retail load experienced here in the month of January which has clearly been negative; because the weather has been -- we forecast normal weather ranges around the volatility in that load plus volatility around things like shopping.
The weather has truly been exceptional in January and even in the front part of February here.
So as I said earlier in my comments we have lived through some of this volatility in the past in 2008 and 2009 when shopping levels were high.
We will plan to keep this business to be relatively modest in size.
It’s a good natural hedge because most of the hedging we are doing is to customers' right in the same neighborhood that this generation has been hedging since it has been built.
So we've looked for us to be aggressive in adding to that.
But there will be periods of time when that retail book provides better return opportunities than agendas and periods like in January and February where the gen provides the better value proposition if you will of the total margins.
But we will continue to modest in retail.
I would just add that when we look at retail you have got to look at of course what are the margins that that business can achieve based on the competition in the marketplace and is that incremental margin compared to your opportunities worth the incremental risk that you are picking up.
So as Paul mentioned on the positive side you can lock in basis but you can't necessarily lock with standard products.
You don't have the collateral.
It’s a good for us a good match to our generation.
So those are the positives.
But on the negative side your margins may not be commensurate with the risks that you are taking on.
So we have to balance all of that and then assess what's the proper and appropriate level of hedging we want to do via the retail market.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question is from Anthony Crowdell of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
I just want to ask the 100th question on Supply and O&amp;M.
Just trying to get more granularity on may be how you can manage this and how low it could go.
What's a good range to use for -- if I wanted to model out for the power plants a good like say O&amp;M per KW for like nuclear and coal assets that you guys have? Well on the nuclear side as I mentioned earlier we are not looking to necessarily cut the O&amp;M.
That's the unique asset and we don't want to take any chances with not fully supporting the plant.
So when you look at the O&amp;M on a KW basis on the other facilities the fossil and hydro that's something we continue to benchmark and look at best practices.
I don't have the number off the top of my head that I can give you so I will just say that we are going to continue to look for opportunities to aggressively cut costs where we can and I think what we did in 2013 with the $40 million it was an appropriate level and its probably in that kind of a range that you are going to see going forward that may be we can continue to target taking out.
But beyond that really hard to answer that question without more benchmarking.
We do have verified on our nuclear assets that we benchmark extremely well in O&amp;M costs per KWH or KW as compared to other fleet units new unit fleets and [new] unit standalone facilities as well.
So we are really well in the game with our O&amp;M costs with the nuclear facility.
How about kind of like taking a second bite at the same question? When I look at say 2012 OEM for Supply was like $1.40 billion.
You knocked out $40 million.
So 2013 is about $1 billion.
How much of that is for like power plant and maintenance versus may be other stuff that's in that line item? Its about an 80-20 split.
Between 80% being that applied more direct to the supply business 20% being more of the corporate and other overheads.
And of that 80% probably I would say about $600 million to $700 million of that is direct O&amp;M associated with plant operations.
Great.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Our next question is from Jonathan Arnold of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Just quickly on the U.K.
you said that -- you are hopeful of a constructive outcome on cost of equity.
Can you give us a sense of -- does that mean it is constructive in your mind no change from what you filed or it is constructive sort of in line with the suggested 80 basis points that they talked about when they -- I guess came out with the initial fast tracking.
Any color on that relative to your guidance range (inaudible)? Constructive to me would be something less than the outcome that they saw on Ireland and I would say that our expectations -- its hard to gauge but would be that Ofgem would take a look at our specific performance and accordingly grant us something that's reasonable.
But I would say if it came out somewhere in between we'd just have to kind of assess.
But I would expect if its not the status quo meaning no change its going to be something -- I would hope its something less and we just have to assess once we get to that point what that means and what actions if any we would take as a result.
And when you say less as in less significant a reduction? Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
Then just in terms of -- to understand the process have you effectively been fast tracked to a pending accepting an outcome on the ROE piece sort of in your court when that decision comes out or has that decision already been taken you are sort of -- and I can't remember whether -- what your options are at that point? We could -- depending right now we are waiting for the February 17 that week for an outcome on the ROE.
We will then assess what our options are at the end of that period.
However my understanding is that we could go the slow tracker out if we weren't happy with the outcome.
But I think that might be unlikely given the value and the benefit of the incremental revenues that you get by fast tracking.
So I would think that that's a low probability but again we have to wait and see what Ofgem tells us in the outcome on the week of the 17th and assess where we are at that point.
Thank you Bill.
Our next question is from Brian Chin of Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Just to follow-up on John's question.
In the -- let's hope unlikely event that the ROE decision is not as constructive as you deem.
Can you give a sense about how long your assessment period might be before you notify what your course of action is going to be? I think it would be relatively quick probably within a week.
Okay.
And then I did hear your -- as a second separate question.
I did hear your answer to Paul Patterson on RPM.
Just one small question on RPM still.
We did notice that the PPL region was broken out separately by PJM and they have indicated that regions that were broken out separately were due to potential future generator deactivations in each LDA.
Now it doesn't look like the PPL region is particularly transmission constrained so it would seem as though potential future generator deactivations is what they are concerned about.
Any color as to why the PPL region was one of the three regions that PPL broke out because of that thought process? I really don't know why I would not think that its bigger than at least not predominantly by generator deactivations.
I am not aware of any significant generators that are planning to retire and its certainly none of the PPL generators.
So until we get more clarity on that I am not exactly sure why they believe it could break out.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Sure.
The next question is from Shar Pourreza of Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Most of my questions have been answered but let me ask you on your fuel hedges.
Despite the move that we have seen in gas you've seen coal prices kind of come off but your hedge profile hasn't really changed at least at the long end of the curve.
Could you may be just comment on whether you've been able to layer on some more fuel hedges at least on the coal side post Q4? Sure.
Dave? Our coal hedges for 2014 are standing at about 94% and in 2015 about 63%.
Beyond that we are just continuing to take a look at the price of coal market prices for energy and we will hedge in as appropriate.
But we stand currently at 94% and 63% for 2014 and 2015.
Okay.
And your fuel hedges -- your coal hedges haven't changed for 2015 right? Since EEI? No.
Not materially.
But for the last couple of years we have also rolled some coal in contracts and pile into the subsequent year.
So again depending upon where we see capacity factors especially this spring and fall you could see some movement ultimately between the years as well.
The value of the hedge is the value of the hedge so we have captured that.
But we are cognizant of the decline or the trending in the decline in coal prices and we will monitor that.
But I don't think we are going to be actively pursuing significant increases in these hedges in the near term.
Got you.
Got you.
And just one last question have you and your native load around the service territory have you seen any third party retail providers exit the system? Given the recent volatility? I don't know that we have seen any material ones.
I think we have heard a few very small providers going out of business.
But we don't really have a lot of data points to be honest.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Operator we are coming up on the 60 minute mark here so we will take one more question please? Our last question is from Brian Russo of Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Hi.
Just could you update on the Colstrip Unit 4 repairs have they been concluded and is the unit back online? Yeah this is David DeCampli.
Colstrip Unit 4 came back online full power in late January.
So it is returned to service.
Great.
Thank you.
Okay you're welcome.
Okay operator I believe that's it and thanks everyone for joining us today.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Martina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the PPL Corporation First Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Director of Investor Relations Joe Bergstein.
You may begin your conference sir.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining the PPL conference call on first quarter results and our general business outlook.
We're providing slides for this presentation on our website at www.pplweb.com.
Any statements made in this presentation about future operating results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
A discussion of factors that could cause actual results or events to vary is contained in the appendix to this presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Jim Miller PPL Chairman President and CEO.
Thanks Joe and good morning everyone.
And thanks for joining our call.
We'll follow the normal practices this morning.
I'll provide a general business update and commentary on the first quarter results and then Paul Farr our CFO will provide a little more detail on the financial review.
And then Bill Spencer Chief Operating Officer will provide you with an operational overview.
As always we look forward to going through some Q&amp;A when we finish our prepared remarks.
Today we announced a reported earnings of $0.82 per share up from $0.66 a year ago and ongoing earnings of $0.84 per share versus $0.94 a year ago.
On a straight net income basis which excludes the impact to the equity issuance last June to fund the Kentucky acquisition reported earnings rose 60%.
On an ongoing basis net income rose 14%.
The earnings improvement was driven by the contribution of our Kentucky regulated segment and a PPL Electric Utilities' distribution rate increase that took effect January 1.
These improvements were partially offset by expected lower energy margins in our Supply segment as higher priced hedges continue to roll off.
In the first quarter we also announced and subsequently closed a significant immediate accretive expansion of our electricity delivery business in the United Kingdom.
By mid-April we completed key elements with a permanent financing plan for this acquisition including the equity portion of the financing and the U.K.
holding company debt issuance.
Most of the proceeds from these issuances were used to repay a significant portion of the bridge facility that we drew on to close the acquisition.
Based on the successful equity issuance Standard &amp; Poor's took PPL and its rated subsidiaries of negative outlook.
We expect the final piece of the permanent financing the operating company debt issuances will occur next week enabling final repayment of the bridge facility.
On the integration front for WPD Midlands all activities are proceeding fully according to plan.
We remain on target to achieve our 2011 ongoing earnings forecast which you remember we increased last month to reflect the expected accretion from this U.K.
acquisition.
We're forecasting ongoing earnings per share of $2.50 to $2.75 for this year.
Based on the successful acquisitions and permanent financings of our new operations in Kentucky and in the U.K.
we've accomplished our strategic objective of achieving a much heavier weighting of rate regulated earnings and cash flow in our business and significant regulated infrastructure investment should lead to sustained growth in each of our regulated businesses for years to come.
Based on needed infrastructure spending in Pennsylvania and the U.K.
coupled with updated assessment of Kentucky environmental compliance investments we now expect our regulated asset base to grow at a compound annual rate of nearly 9% over the next five years.
And more than two thirds of our planned CapEx spending in these regulated businesses will be made under regulatory structures that allow for near-realtime recovery of and on those expenditures.
So this should give PPL a more predictable and transparent earnings profile going forward.
Based on projected rate base growth our expectations regarding earned [indiscernible] in the timing of general rate cases we anticipate that by 2013 a significant majority of our earnings and cash flow will come from our regulated businesses.
We've accomplished this de-risking of PPL without giving up the significant upside potential of our competitive generation business and we remain confident that competitive wholesale capacity and power prices will eventually rebound.
And when they do we believe our shareholders will benefit significantly.
This has clearly been a transformational and successful year for PPL.
We've migrated from a company with more than 60% of EBITDA dependent on commodity markets to one that will by 2013 derive only 25% of its expected EBITDA from that business.
We issued a significant amount of equity and equity units to fund these acquisitions and the response by investors has been very strong.
We're fully committed to delivering the results we've projected into earning appropriate returns in our regulated businesses.
A particularly strong response to the most recent equity offering and the performance of our stock price since that offering make it clear to us that investors like the transformed PPL and that they believed we can deliver.
And I'm confident that we'll do exactly that.
With that I'll turn the call over to Paul for comments on some of the financial results.
Paul? Thanks Jim.
Good morning everyone.
Let's move to Slide 6 to review our first quarter financial results.
PPL's first quarter earnings from ongoing operations are higher than last year driven by earnings from the Kentucky segment and the impact of the distribution rate increase at PPL Electric Utilities partially offset by expected lower energy margins of the Supply segment.
Per share earnings from ongoing operations are lower due to dilution of $0.23 per share driven by the 2010 common stock issuance to fund the Kentucky acquisition.
I'd like to highlight that the Kentucky segment earnings include the operating results of the LKE interest expense associated with the equity to use to finance that acquisition and dilution of $0.04 per share.
Let's move to the International segment earnings drivers on Slide 7.
Our International segment earned $0.16 per share in the first quarter a $0.04 decrease from last year.
This performance was the net result of higher delivery revenue primarily driven by higher prices and a more favorable customer mix higher interest expense resulting from the GBP 400 million debt issuance in March of last year higher income taxes and $0.04 of dilution.
Moving to Slide 8.
Our Pennsylvania regulated segment earned $0.11 per share in the first quarter of 2011 a $0.01 increase over last year.
This increase was the net result of higher delivery margins primarily due to new distribution base rates that went into effect on January 1 and favorable weather.
Higher O&amp;M expenses primarily due to higher plan spending and higher storm response cost lower income taxes as a result of the state income tax benefit of bonus depreciation and dilution of $0.03 per share.
Turning to Supply.
This segment earned $0.42 per share in the first quarter of 2011 a decrease of $0.22 per share compared to last year.
The decrease was primarily due to lower energy margins resulting from lower hedge prices in the east and dilution of $0.12 per share.
Turning to Slide 10.
We reaffirmed our forecast of $2.50 to $2.75 per share in earnings from ongoing operations.
This slide walks you from 2010 actual to forecast 2011 updating the key factors driving the change.
We've changed the format of this slide to provide the factors that drive each segment's earnings between 2010 and the midpoint of our 2011 forecast excluding the impact of dilution which is broken out separately.
The increase in the Kentucky regulated segment reflects a full year of its earnings results and a full year of interest expense associated with the equity units issued in June 2010 to finance that acquisition.
The $0.57 increase in the International regulated segment earnings reflects a partial year of earnings from WPD Midlands and interest expense associated with the equity units issued in April to finance that acquisition.
We expect an increase in earnings from the legacy U.K.
business primarily due to higher delivery revenue and a more favorable currency exchange rate partially offset by higher income taxes higher depreciation and higher financing costs.
The $0.08 increase from the Pennsylvania regulated segment is primarily due to the distribution rate increase that went into effect on January.
We expect the Supply segment to deliver earnings from ongoing operations that are $0.87 per share lower than 2010.
This decrease is primarily driven by $0.51 of lower energy margins including an estimated $20 million to $30 million after tax impact to inspect and repair turbine blades at Susquehanna.
Bill will discuss the Susquehanna outage extension in more detail in his remarks.
Also impacting margins are lower electricity prices lower basis and lower capacity prices in the east and higher delivered fuel cost in the east and west.
We also expect higher income taxes primarily due to the 2010 release of Pennsylvania deferred tax valuation allowances at a lower Section 199 benefit.
Higher O&amp;M due to increased outage costs at our fossil plants in the east and west.
And finally $0.75 per share of dilution will result from the shares issued to fund both acquisitions.
On Slide 11 we've updated our projected 2011 free cash flow from operations before dividends.
The change in cash from operations for 2011 since the year end earnings call is driven by a partial year of earnings from WPD Midlands offset by acquisition-related expenses the return of collateral to third parties and the lower-than-expected income tax refunds.
The change in free cash flow before dividends is also impacted by a projected capital expenditures of WPD Midlands and the remarketing of pollution control bonds in Kentucky.
Turning to Slide 12.
As Jim mentioned earlier we continue to focus on our dividend as a key element of total shareholder return.
Our significantly more rate regulated business platform provides strong support for our current dividend as well as our future dividend growth.
This chart shows the improvement in earnings contribution of our regulated businesses that's a result of the recent acquisitions.
Projected ongoing earnings per share from our regulated businesses now more than cover our current dividend and the Midlands acquisition clearly permits more dividend flexibility in the future.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill for an update on operations Thanks Paul and good morning everyone.
Let's turn to Slide 13 and start with an operational review of the first quarter.
Overall we had a very good quarter in all of our business segments but let me start by first addressing the nuclear outage.
At our Susquehanna nuclear plant we're currently in a scheduled outage on Unit #2 and have discovered defective low pressure turbine blades during a planned inspection.
Replacement of these blades was not anticipated as part of our original scope this will extend the unit to outage by an estimated 4 to 6 weeks to ensure safe reliable operations for the upcoming cycle.
As a precaution we will also bring Susquehanna Unit #1 offline in the coming weeks to do a similar turbine blade inspection.
However given the strong first quarter performance of the Supply segment and based on our preliminary expectations on the length of these outages we believe that our Supply earnings for 2011 will still be achieved.
Moving to our Kentucky regulated segment LG&amp;E and KU filed their integrated resource plan or IRP with the Kentucky PSC last week.
This plan is provided to the PSC every three years and is intended to give the Commission a poignant time to look at our expectations for resource needs into the future.
It does not represent a commitment or a decision by the company nor does it represent a request for approval.
The key takeaways from the IRP are: one average annual low growth of about 1.5%; 500 megawatts of demand side management capability; the closing of three older coal plants with a combined capacity of approximately 800 megawatts due to proposed environmental regulations; and new generation in the form of combined cycle gas units.
Our current capital projections are consistent with the IRP.
However prior to moving forward on any resource we'll have to make additional regulatory filings with the Kentucky Commission.
Our revised capital expenditure forecast for LG&amp;E and KU also reflects our projected spending on environmental control equipment to meet the most recent proposed EPA rules.
We have informed the Kentucky PSC of our intent to file a new environmental cost recovery or ECR plan to address proposed regulations.
That ECR filing is expected to be made in the second quarter.
Finally KU filed a rate case in Virginia on April 1 requesting a $9.3 million annual revenue increased based on 2010 results and return on equity of 11%.
The drivers of the case are incremental capital investments and recovery of storm-related costs.
If approved the increase will take effect at the beginning of 2012.
Moving to the Pennsylvania regulated segment.
PPL Electric Utilities won its ninth J.D.
Power and Associates' award for customer satisfaction by business customers.
This is PPL Electric Utilities' 17th J.D.
Power award which is more than any other utility in the country.
The employees of PPL Electric Utilities just like our employees in Kentucky and the United Kingdom take pride in providing the highest level of customer service and we congratulate them on a job well done.
Finally in our International regulated segment as you know we completed the acquisition of the Midlands operations.
And as Jim said the integration process is moving ahead as planned.
Let's move to Slide 14 and take a look at sales volumes in Kentucky.
Residential and commercial volumes were down for the quarter due principally to mild weather while industrial volumes increased reflecting continued economic recovery in the service territory.
Volumes for the trailing 12-month period were up across the board reflecting both economic growth recovery and weather effects.
LG&amp;E and KU had the hottest summer in the past 30 years in 2010 followed by one of the coldest Decembers.
The modeled weather-normalized volume reductions in the residential and commercial classes reflect energy efficiency measures which have not yet been offset by customer growth.
For 2011 we're projecting load growth of approximately 1.2% on a weather-normalized basis.
However given the extreme weather in 2010 we're forecasting an actual load decline of 2.4% compared with last year.
Moving to Slide 15.
We provide details on sales volume variances for PPL Electric Utilities.
Our PA utility has experienced slight growth in industrial sales for the first quarter and trailing 12 months.
This industrial demand reflects the gradual economic recovery that we're seeing in the service territory but it still remains below levels prior to the recession.
Residential sales are higher on an actual business reflecting higher weather-related sales compared to the prior period.
But on a weather-adjusted basis we've experienced a decline in sales.
The weather-adjusted decline in residential sales is primarily driven by higher energy prices increased energy efficiency energy conservation and a slow housing market.
For 2011 we project overall load growth of less than 1% with higher industrial and commercial sales partially offset by continued lower residential sales.
On Slide 16 we provide our usual detail on the Supply segment hedges.
The baseload hedge levels and prices for 2011 are essentially the same as our fourth quarter disclosure.
During this last quarter we layered on additional power hedges in the east for 2012.
Our average hedged price for 2012 has declined somewhat as the recent transactions have been completed at energy prices are lower than previous hedges.
Since new hedges were put on at prices near the levels we saw at year end our internal projections for 2012 total gross margins have not changed materially since the mark at the end of the first quarter 2010.
Now let me turn the call back over to Jim and we look forward to your questions.
Okay operator.
With that let's open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Paul Patterson from Glenrock Associates.
The turbine blade problem what caused that? Could you just elaborate a little more on that? I'm sorry I didn't completely understand that.
Sure no problem.
We were doing a routine inspection as required by the vendor and we found some cracking on some of the blades.
Our initial root cause investigation would suggest that it's fatigue related.
We're still looking into the details.
But in an abundance of caution we're actually going to replace all the rows on any row that showed any blade fatigue or failure.
So it's underway as we speak on Unit 2.
And as I mentioned in the remarks we will be bringing down Unit 1 in the coming weeks and we'll inspect that unit as well.
And what's the cause I'm sorry again that's associated with the maintenance and the capital that you're going to be spending on? The maintenance the capital the purchase power all of the cost of the exercise if you will our financial impact of the exercise is $20 million to $30 million after tax with everything that we know right now.
And that includes both units? That's correct.
That's correct.
And as I mentioned with our strong first quarter performance -- out performance to our internal plan we think we can fully manage the costs associated with the outage.
But wanted to let you know that when you see a press release the Unit 1 is coming offline you would have the details in terms of the why.
That's great.
Now the trading and marketing outlook and stuff has that changed at all? No not at all.
We're fully on track to meet our expectations for this year.
I believe the total gross margin that we had in the plan was around $40 million for the year.
And then just to serve market outlook for the non-regulated business we've got the RPM auction happening pretty soon.
Any feelings with the most adjustments that have been made with the effect of brand versus stuff what's your thinking you might see? Yes I think our expectation is a clearing price in Mac of around $150 to $200 per megawatt day.
That assumes the transmission-related adjustments in the RPM modeling that PGM is undertaking as we speak or running the option as well as about up to 6 000 megawatts of retirements.
As it relates to retirements we're pretty certain that 2 000 megawatts is a given.
And there's another 4 000 that we would expect as part of our internal modeling.
As far as rest of the pool we would expect that to clear somewhere in the $30 to $50 per megawatt hour -- or megawatt day rather.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman from Bank of America.
A couple questions.
First could you remind what exchange rate is in your assumption for 2011? $1.60 per sterling.
And then also you've obviously had pretty good well well good inflation numbers from the standpoint of your inflation in taxing.
Is that something that you anticipated in your guidance or was that a positive to the guidance? Well we actually wouldn't -- it would be -- it might be slightly positive to guidance.
The way that the inflation adjustment works is we would basically take a 12-month rolling average if you will kind of July-to-July August-to-August it's all the way through December-to-December averages at the back end of this year.
So the front part of the year is helpful but we need to see a continuation of that to see call it a ex plan or above plan outcome that would start affecting revenues April 1 of next year.
So that could benefit you next year then? It could benefit next year.
Okay.
And then last question is I know in the past there's been upward pressure on the coal transport.
But I saw your coal numbers were exactly in line so it sounds like your kind of -- I know you have some diesel hedges and the like but it sounds like you've got that pretty well in line.
Right Steve.
We're right on track.
I don't see any variances of any material amounts so far compared to the rates we gave you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Real quick question can you update just the financing plan and needs given the change in the 2011 free cash flow outlook? Sure.
Really nothing significant a big portion of the change is driven by the operating cash flow and the CapEx related to Midlands which there's been no change.
There's a small impact.
I think it was around $150 million $160 million from collateral change.
I wouldn't view that as significant enough to drive any change in the financing plan.
We've gotten -- we filed for a security certificate with the PUC a few hundred million that we plan on issuing at electric utilities to your first mortgage bonds.
We've got a refi coming up later in the year at Supply.
As Jim mentioned we're on the throes of issuing the ATCO [ph] financing for the U.K.
debt.
If the market is strong there we may end up pre-funding a little bit of next year's need but it's still within the range of what we've outlined to you in the permanent financing program so no major changes.
Got it.
And when you talk about RPM and you talk about the retirements the 2 gigawatt number you mentioned that's a certainty.
Can you give a little more clarity on that? I think that's a combination of announced retirements prior to this most recent auction as well as our best guess if you look at the fleet that's out there and those that are most challenged by just the markets in general let alone the EPA regs.
You add those in and you come up to the 2 000 megawatts.
I'm sorry.
I don't have the details on exactly which units those are but that's generally how they categorize.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Chin from Citigroup.
Just a clarification.
On the increase in CapEx at the Kentucky utilities did you say that the environmental cost recovery mechanism that you have yet to file that that will include an additional amount of CapEx above and beyond what you've already put on Slide 19? Or does Slide 19 already include what you will be filing shortly? It includes all of that.
Slide 19 includes the full amount of the CapEx that we're expecting to be seeking recovery for and the increase is driven by environmental compliance so all of that would be ECR eligible in terms of the filing.
Your next question comes from the line of Carrie St.
Louis [ph] from Fidelity.
I was hoping you can give an update on your energy hedges for 2013.
Sure Carrie.
We're right now sitting at about 24% for 2013.
That's up a little bit from where we were at the end of the year.
I believe we're around 15% in that zip code at the end of last year.
So we've added on a few more hedges but we're at 24% as of today.
And do you have the split between the east and the west? And could also maybe talk to the average hedge price versus like 2012? I don't have that here in front of me Carrie.
We would normally provide all that detail at the time we announce earnings for 2012 in this case.
Well I mean most companies by now have '13 outlooks provided so you're going to wait to do that all the way until the end of this year? Unless we have material hedges placed by then for 2013 we would not likely update our charts and information until the third quarter.
But your hedging your ratable hedging would put you where you're supposed to be by the end of the year for '13? It would be in the -- by end of 2011 or early 2012 we'd be in the 60 to 90 range 60% to 90%.
So this 24% is going to go up to 60% to 90% by the end of this year? That's what we expect right.
And again it's -- the front end of the year is not when we normally see significant utility load following auctions.
We don't see seasonal spikes in gas.
And one of the reasons why we have hedged up is we saw some nice improvement in the outyears as it relates to energy and so we took advantage of some of that.
It's come back off and it's going back up.
And as we see the seasonal storm pattern related and summer patterns impact things we would typically be hedging more later in the year.
Okay.
And then maybe going to next year's cash flow free cash flow guidance or I know there's no guidance but maybe just if you could kind of help frame how we could can think about free cash flow expectations? Clearly the CapEx is moving materially higher like $800 million it looks like.
Year-on-year you're referring to? Yes.
Yes.
So if I look -- your prior 2011 guidance for cash from ops was about $2.4 billion so you lowered it about $200 million.
Should we start with that prior '11 base or go off of this new lower 2.2? Well I would say probably go off for the lower numbers simply because the biggest chunk down in that number -- there were two things: it was the return of net of the U.K.
movements which were all just simply layering on the acquisition-related impact of their operations and CapEx needs was $160 million $150 million return of collateral to counter parties that can go up or down; and then a decrease of $50 million in the expected income tax refund.
And that's simply because rules got clarified better around what qualifies for bonus depreciation and what doesn't.
That was the biggest driver there.
So I would again adjusting for whatever your model indicates the operating cash flows x working capital would do whether that's the lower number a different number based on how you're modeling the utility businesses and supplies margins you've got to factor obviously both in.
Yes.
And then besides normal like your earnings growth the cash flow would grow.
Are there any items that would have impact going from '11 to '12? No not at all.
And as we indicated when we successfully completed the equity offering we wouldn't expect to be out other than the normal small amount of kind of $50 million $75 million in drift.
We won't be out in the markets for stock not until late in 2012.
So nothing outside of those comments that we've made that I would expect that would be -- it sounds like you're asking if there's something unusual.
I don't see that.
Okay.
So just equity late in 2012? All right.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom O'Neil from Green Arrow.
Just two questions on the dividend.
What would sort of be the right way to think about the timing for that consideration? And then the second is on industrial sales in Kentucky just curious what was built into the original 2011 view? I'll take the dividend one and then Bill could take the industrial question.
The normal timing for a dividend adjustment is the Board consideration of the dividend for the first quarter of next year.
So the April dividend next year would be our normal cycle not that we have to stick that but that's the usual time of the year that we address the level of dividend.
And relative to the industrial sales for the first quarter we're pretty much right on track with what we expected.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan from Visium Asset Management.
Just wanted to check what was the sense of doing poll now [ph] for the change in currency to the earnings? I have forgotten that.
What is the sensitivity for each I guess $0.10 if it goes from $1.60 to $1.65? What's this earnings sensitivity? Yes we've not given an earnings sensitivity Ashar because we started the year on the legacy WPD so heavily hedged at around 75%.
We are equivalently hedged on the operating earnings from our ongoing earnings on Midlands now as well as the same amount.
And given where the currency is we're actually looking at hedging up even more.
So I haven't -- we haven't given a sensitivity but we're getting to the point where we're becoming not very sensitive.
I would say that net of all the hedges including some of the colors that we put on that I'd expect that we would be slightly ahead of the $1.60 per sterling that we had in the bid [ph] assumption -- for the forecast assumption.
But can you just give us if you are like totally unhedged what would be the sensitivity? Well we gave you the net income in the road show book.
I thought I brought a copy with me of the net income.
If you just take though every year of net income for '11 '12 and '13 for international is that a $1.60? So divide those numbers those net income numbers by $1.60 that will give you the midpoint that will give you the sterling net income and then you can vary  that a couple percent from the road show deck.
Apology I don't have it handy with me.
Your next question comes from the line of Ivana Ergovic from Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> What was the basis between your plans and the PGM West for the quarter? I'm sorry were you asking what the basis was for the quarter? Inc.</strong> Yes basis potential.
Yes the basis in the first quarter was slightly positive.
We would continue to expect basis to remain flat meaning zero for the year west up compared to our generation locations overall.
So which is what we had assumed in our plan.
So no significant change from what our expectations were.
Inc.</strong> You're assuming the same zero for 2012? That's correct.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And another question you gave your earnings walk [ph] in the fourth quarter and now you gave the update.
And there is it $0.08 contribution from legacy U.K.
business which wasn't in the presentation in the fourth quarter.
Is this because of the synergies? What's the reason for the change? No the change for -- one second let me find my chart on that -- is driven by an expectation of some higher revenues versus year end based on some changes in inflation currency exchange rates it was several things that built into that.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then there is also $0.05 extra for Kentucky if this -- is it because of the weather? Or what's the reason? No it's not weather-related on Kentucky.
Net -- one second.
Well there shouldn't have been that significant a change in Kentucky.
We'll check that Ivana and get you that through Joe and the team.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And the third one I think there is a $0.05 reduction in supply margin.
Is that because of the front end outage? Or what's the reason for the reduction in the margin? It was several things that drove that.
But the plants the outage assumptions and all of the margin totality is in that number.
Your next question comes from Steve Fleishman from Bank of America.
One follow-up.
The Pennsylvania bonus depreciation change how much was that in the quarter and how much do you expect from that for the full year? In the quarter it was a little more than a $0.01  and so I'd expect that to be roughly ratable for the year.
There are no further questions in the queue.
I turn the call back over to the presenters.
All right.
Thank you operator.
And thanks to all of you for being on the call and we look forward to our second quarter call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Sean and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the PPL Corporation Second Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Joe Bergstein Director of Investor Relations you may begin your conference call.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining the PPL conference call on second quarter results and our general business outlook.
We are providing slides of this presentation on our website at www.pplweb.com.
Any statements made in this presentation about future operating results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
A discussion of factors that could cause actual results or events to vary is contained in the appendix to this presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Jim Miller PPL Chairman and CEO.
Okay.
Thank you Joe.
Good morning everyone.
And with me today as usual I have Bill Spence our now President and COO; and Paul Farr our Chief Financial Officer.
And a quick congratulations to Bill.
As we've expanded the company Bill will certainly be busy with working with the 2 new acquisitions in Kentucky and in the U.K.
and we look forward to really driving significant value out of those 2 businesses as we've grown the company.
Always we'll cover some brief remarks by myself.
Paul Farr will go through our detailed financials and Bill will go through the operational aspects and then we'll go to Q&amp;A.
So with that as you've seen by now in the announcement this morning reported earnings of $0.35 per share up from $0.22 a year ago.
For the first half of the year our reported earnings were $1.14 per share compared to $0.88 for the same period last year.
Ongoing earnings for the second quarter were $0.45 per share versus $0.62 in the second quarter last year.
And ongoing earnings for the first half of 2011 were $1.26 per share compared to $1.56 in 2010.
The 2011 earnings performance was driven by the contribution of our Kentucky-regulated segment strong International segment performance and by the PPL Electric Utilities distribution and rate increase that took effect January 1 this year.
These improvements however were more than offset by lower energy margins in our Supply segment driven by higher-priced hedges rolling off as well as unplanned outages to replace turbine blades at our Susquehanna nuclear units and dilution from the equity issued to finance our 2 large regulated utility acquisitions.
During the second quarter we did successfully complete the permanent financing for the Midlands acquisition and the integration of this business is proceeding according to plan.
While the integration is still at a relatively early stage we've already seen positive movement in key operational metrics and financial results in the first 4 months of ownership.
For example prior to our acquisition fewer than 65% of Midlands' customers had power restored in under 60 minutes following a high-voltage outage.
By June we'd restored power following such an outage to more than 75% of customers in less than 60 minutes.
This is only one statistic but it's representative of the value our U.K.
team is already delivering to the customers in the U.K.
Moving to Slide 5.
Today we’re reaffirming our 2011 forecast of $2.50 to $2.75 per share in earnings for ongoing operations.
I feel very good about our prospects for the year as we expect to largely mitigate the $60 million to $65 million earnings impact of the Susquehanna outages with strong performance from our U.K.
business and positive results in other aspects of our competitive Supply business.
Our ability to absorb the impact of such a significant unplanned event illustrates the value of our larger business platform.
And we expect the planned significant regulated infrastructure investment will lead to sustained growth in each of our regulated businesses for years to come.
Our compound annual growth rate in the consolidated regulated asset base is about 9% over the next 5 years.
And more than 2/3 of our planned capital spend will be made under structures that allow for near-realtime recovery of those expenditures.
Beyond the attractive growth in our regulated businesses the Supply segment remains well-positioned for the eventual rebound of competitive wholesale capacity and power prices.
We now believe this rebound could even occur sooner than we previously expected.
The recent finalization of cross-state air pollution rules the firming spark spreads and the potential for a recovering economy point to higher power prices beginning in late 2013 or early 2014.
So before turning it over to Paul let me say that I'm very optimistic about the short- and long-term prospects for PPL.
We've completed the 2 major acquisitions that allowed us to reposition our portfolio and we've created a larger stronger enterprise.
So I look forward to the questions after we hear from Paul and Bill on the operational side.
Now I'll turn the call over to Paul.
Thanks Jim and good morning all.
Let's move to Slide 6 to review our second quarter financial results.
Second quarter earnings from ongoing operations were lower than last year primarily due to dilution resulting from the common stock issued in June 2010 and April 2011 to fund our 2 large acquisitions and lower margins at our Supply segment.
These drivers were partially offset by the operating results of the acquired utilities and the impact of the PPL EU distribution rate increase that Jim referred to already.
While there is no comparator for 2010 performance for Kentucky as the deal hadn't yet closed for this period I'd like to highlight that the Kentucky segment earnings include the operating results of KU and LG&amp;E interest expense associated with the 2010 equity unit issuance and dilution of $0.02 per share.
Let's move to the International segment earnings drivers on Slide 7.
Our International regulated segment earned $0.21 per share in the second quarter a $0.06 increase over last year.
This performance was the net result of the operating results of the Midlands utilities including interest expense of $0.02 per share associated with the 2011 equity unit issuance and the bridge facility draw.
Higher earnings at WPD's legacy business is resulting from higher delivery revenue primarily due to higher prices higher interest expense and our index-linked bonds higher income taxes and dilution of $0.10 per share.
Moving on to Slide 8.
Our Pennsylvania regulated segment earned $0.06 per share in the second quarter of 2011 a $0.02 increase over last year.
This increase was the net result of higher delivery margins primarily due to the new distribution rate that went into effect on Jan 1 and higher transmission revenue due to both increased rate base and cost of capital benefits from additional equity investment there.
Lower O&amp;M expense and dilution of $0.03 per share.
Turning now to Supply.
This segment earned $0.12 per share in the second quarter a decrease of $0.31 per share compared to last year.
The primary drivers of the lower Q2 earnings were the timing of Susquehanna's planned refueling and upgrade outage and the financial impact of unplanned turbine blade replacement outages that affected both units.
This quarter was also impacted by anticipated lower energy and capacity prices in the East as hedges rolled off and higher delivered coal prices.
Partially offsetting the negative drivers were higher margins on full-requirement sales contracts and better runtimes and margins from our intermediate and peaking units.
And finally dilution impacted the segment by $0.06 per share.
On Slide 10 we've updated our projected 2011 free cash flow before dividends forecast.
This graph excluded the impact of the Midlands purchase as we're finalizing some of those details now.
The change in cash from operations for 2011 since the first quarter earnings call is primarily driven by a higher-than-expected return of collateral to third parties higher non-cash income items and an additional pension payment at WPD.
Cash flows are also impacted by slightly lower projected capital expenditures.
Turning to Slide 11.
We continue to focus on the dividend as a key obvious element of total shareowner return.
We're very well positioned to cover the dividend out of rate-regulated business earnings as we indicate on the slide and clearly the combination of the Midlands acquisition and the growth prospects of our utility businesses permit dividend flexibility into the future.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bill for an update on operations.
Thanks Paul and good morning everyone.
Let's turn to Slide 12 now and start with an operational review of the second quarter.
In Kentucky LG&amp;E and KU both made environmental cost recovery or ECR filings with the Kentucky PSC in June.
These filings cover a total of $2.5 billion of environmental costs primarily as a result of the new EPA regulations.
The proceeding is underway and we are in the discovery phase of the process.
We'd expect a decision by the KPSC by year end.
Moving to the Supply segment.
Both units at our Susquehanna nuclear facility returned to service following the unplanned turbine blade replacement outages.
The units are running at full output and were online during the recent extreme hot weather we experienced in the region.
With the update to Susquehanna Unit 2 we are now operating the 2 largest boiling water reactors in the U.S.
In total we have added another 217 megawatts at Susquehanna.
As noted in an 8-K filed with the SEC PPL discovered several cracked blades during a scheduled inspection of its low-pressure turbines during Unit 2's planned outage.
Conservative actions were taken to not only replace several blade rows on Unit 2 but also to take Unit 1 offline for an inspection where similar cracking was discovered.
PPL has installed enhanced monitoring equipment to help determine the cause of the blade cracking.
Moving on to coal-related issues.
As you know the EPA recently finalized the CSAPR rules related to sulfur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide emissions.
The rules apply to fossil fuel power plants in 28 states including Pennsylvania and Kentucky.
Montana is not affected by these rules.
The competitive supply segment's compliance strategy for meeting the emission requirements of the former care rules have positioned the company well to meet the new CSAPR requirements.
Since 2005 about $1.6 billion has been invested in environmental upgrades at our coal-fired plants in Pennsylvania and Montana including $1.3 billion for scrubbers at the Keystone Montour and Brunner Island plants.
We continued to evaluate the timing for a potential addition of an FDR [ph] at Brunner Island.
The cost of this is included in the CapEx plans we provided to you in the past and in the appendix to today's presentation.
Overall we do not see the need to increase capital expenditures to comply with the CSAPR requirements.
Overall PPL's competitive supply fleet is well-positioned with respect to these roles and can clearly benefit from coal plant retirements that will tighten up the supply situation in PJM.
We would expect to begin seeing benefits to our fleet by 2014.
Let's move to Slide 13 for an update on the international regulated segment.
The synergy plan for the integration of the Midlands operation is on track and the organizational structure and reorganization plans have been finalized.
We are in the process of implementing our organizational plans to ensure the most efficient operations possible.
The transition will result in a smaller support structure the elimination of duplicate work and the implementation of streamlined work procedures.
We plan to complete the vast majority of the organizational and system changes during the fourth quarter.
Moving to Slide 14 we've outlined sales volumes by major customer class for Kentucky.
Slower-than-expected economic growth lowered energy sales over the past year and it’s apparent in the second quarter of 2011 compared to the second quarter of 2010.
In Kentucky real disposable income decreased as inflation has outpaced income growth.
And unemployment in the state continues to be above the national average.
As a result the number of residential customers is essentially flat year-over-year and average consumption per customer is slightly down.
While some indications have been hopeful for the commercial sector in Kentucky commercial electricity sales indicate relatively slow economic growth.
In the industrial segment Q2 sales in '11 were lower than prior year due mainly to customer-specific factory issues.
Industrial sales are up for the 12-month period ended June 30 2011 versus the same period a year ago due to increased production over that period from a couple of the utilities' largest customers.
Moving to Slide 15.
We provide details on sales volume variances for PPL Electric Utilities.
Weather-normalized residential sales were higher for the quarter compared to the prior year due to modest load growth and the addition of new customers.
This was partially offset by the effect of higher energy prices on sales and increased energy efficiency and conservation.
Commercial and industrial sales were higher for the quarter reflecting gradual economic recovery in the region.
For the full year 2011 we project overall load growth between 1% and 2% driven primarily by higher residential industrial and commercial sales.
On Slide 16 we provide our normal detail on the competitive supply segment hedges.
The baseload hedge levels and prices for 2011 are essentially the same as our first quarter disclosure.
We have adjusted our expected output levels for '11 to reflect actual results through June and our forecast for the remainder of the year.
The decline in our expected Eastern baseload generation is primarily driven by the Susquehanna nuclear outage which is partially offset by higher intermediate and peaking generation.
The expected Western generation reflects lower coal generation partially offset by higher hydro generation due to above-normal river flows in the Pacific Northwest.
During the quarter we layered on additional power hedges in the East for 2012 and 2013 which we are providing today for the first time.
As you can see our 2013 hedge profile is approximately 70%.
By the end of 2012 we would have expected to be 60% to 90% hedged for 2013.
We're obviously currently ahead of that schedule as we took advantage of recent power price rallies motivated by firming gas forwards as well as impacts from EPA's CSAPR.
Most of the 2013 hedges were done with collars so we stand to capture upside on these hedges if prices move higher but we have protected against the downside if CSAPR is delayed or forward natural gas price has softened.
That said 30% of our projected baseload production and 80% of our gas forward [ph] capacity stands poised to capture the full benefits of any further strengthening of power prices in the 2013 delivery year.
As 2014 comes on the horizon we are essentially fully open and are of the view that the confluence of the CSAPR implementation prospects for better economic recovery and firming gas prices will reduce reserve margins and further expand heat rates.
Our generation business is expected to do very well in that environment.
Now let me turn the call back to Jim and I look forward to your questions.
Okay thanks Bill.
So operator let's move into the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question in the queue comes from the line of Ameet Thakkar from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Just a quick question on I guess the updated hedge disclosures on Slide 16.
Does your I guess new or updated hedge prices does that include any kind of I guess basis spread to the PJM West Hub or are these are all just kind of your hedged prices at the West Hub? These would be essentially all prices at the West Hub yes.
And as I've indicated on prior calls our expectation is for basis to be flat in the next several years to the West Hub our generating units to West Hub.
Okay.
And I just noticed that I guess you're still under negotiations for kind of the rail or I guess the coal portion of your 2013 fuel needs.
But when do you think you might have an update on how that has kind of proceeded? Sure.
It is primarily driven by the negotiations underway on the rail contract with NS.
And we would hope that perhaps by the end of the year we would be in a position to report out on 2013 hedges for the East.
Okay.
And then just real quickly on I guess the integration of Central Networks.
I was just wondering when you might have I guess a firmer handle on I guess on what sort of kind of a severance costs that you will incur and when you might be able to provide I guess an update on kind of the synergies that you outlined when you announced the transaction? Yes.
Ameet this is Paul.
We'll probably be in a position to do that when we announce Q3 earnings.
We would expect to have most of the system's implementation and organizational implementation done by early in the fourth quarter.
If it's not at that time it would be shortly thereafter.
The problem is that and I shouldn't say problem but there's a big range of outcomes depending upon the years of service and the age of the personnel in the 600 to 800 people that leave organization.
You'll notice when you look at the Q that we've given so that people didn't think it was an uncapped number if you will in terms of exposure that at the extreme meaning if 800 people would leave and they’re the 800 people that have the longest tenure with the organization and the highest age it could be up to $120 million for that element.
And I think we gave a number of around $110 million in the road show deck that included the ITPs as well.
But if you go to the other end of the spectrum and it's younger folks that have fewer less time in the organization it could be less than $10 million.
So it's a broad range that's heavily dependent upon who actually departs.
Okay and sorry one last question on the hedges.
Does that include any kind of full requirements premium? And I think you mentioned in your prepared remarks that some of the offset to the outages was from full requirements business? I thought you guys had kind of participated less in full requirements auctions? You are correct we have participated much less.
Most of the full requirements contracts that we do have are legacy contracts that are rolling off this year or they're short-term contracts.
In the new hedge disclosures for 2013 there are essentially no full requirement contracts in there.
If there are any it would be very small.
And your next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson from Glenrock Associates.
The collars that you have on the hedges for 2013 you've got upside participation.
Is there any downside participation? I mean you mentioned protection but I mean if prices go down could the number go down? Well the range that we've provided there I think captures essentially both the upside and the downside there.
So the $53 and $56 in the East.
That range I think captures pretty much the downside.
So I think while it could go down a little bit more if you get on the tail of the distribution we feel pretty good about the lower end of $53.
And that $53 Paul would be if all the collars price at the bottom end of the range.
Because we obviously enter into these at different times and the same thing with the upside at $56 if everything hit at the top end of the range.
Right.
Okay.
And where is it right now I guess? I mean I guess we can sort of look it up but I'm just wondering sort of -- because obviously they're different products and what have you I would think.
Where would you be I guess in the range right now? I would say probably towards the lower end just with I guess as of yesterday coming off in '13 by about 2% and based on where we set the hedges at a very favorable price.
But we'd probably still be towards the lower end of that.
But I think we feel really good about it.
And as of the end of the second quarter the hedges were $200 million in the money.
And I would suspect that as of today they're even further in the money.
So I think they're very favorably priced hedges.
Okay great.
Now on weather.
I'm sorry that I missed this but what was the weather impact for the year-to-date versus normal? In other words I mean -- because I mean we look at some of these the Kentucky numbers and stuff I assumed maybe or maybe not that there's some weather perhaps in there that -- just wondering whether or not there's a potential how we stand in terms of the weather performance? Yes.
Well the charts are weather-normalized.
But on the chart you...
Oh are they? Yes yes.
So they're already weather-normalized.
But if you can see in the detail below the chart the actuals.
So the actuals because of unfavorable weather were actually more negative than the weather-normalized in the case of Kentucky.
Yes.
Kentucky's off by a $0.01 or $0.02 versus plan because of weather offset a very modest amount by some additional off-system sales.
And in the case of Pennsylvania it's the opposite.
The actual weather was more favorable than the weather-normalized.
So it's a little different geography obviously.
Okay.
And then on the trading and marketing are we still I think what was it $40 million that you guys were expecting for 2011? Yes.
We're still tracking well to that probably ahead of that at this point.
Okay.
And then any change with the CSAPR and stuff maybe for 2014 and stuff? No.
I think we still -- as Jim mentioned and I mentioned in my prepared remarks we're still looking at 2014 as the years that a lot of the retirements begin to take effect.
The emission credits begin to get priced into power.
So we're looking at '13 as the transition year to the higher prices in '14.
There are no trades yet that have obviously taken place and there's real big bid offers on those.
So it's clear when you look at the pricing that it looks like most is on the bid side and not the offer.
So we do think that there's clearly more upside to those margins and to those prices as transactions actually take place and allowances get allocated.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon from ISI Group.
When we look at the decline in industrial demand in Kentucky can you give us a little more color as to specifically what sectors of the industrial segment there are pulling back year-over-year? Sure.
If you're looking specifically Greg at the second quarter those were really driven by 2 things.
One was auto manufacturing production levels a little bit less than the year prior.
And there was also one of the largest customers of the Kentucky utilities that had a fire and shut down the plant completely.
So those are really the specific factory issues that I mentioned in the opening comments.
So I think it’s more helpful to probably look at the year-over-year numbers.
And I believe we still feel that the production levels on the auto will come back up to higher levels.
And we're probably tracking still on the favorable side on the industrial sales.
Is that factory that had a fire coming back? Or is it shut permanently? It's coming back.
It was a 40-megawatt load pre the explosion the carbide plant and it's coming back at 25 megawatts early next year.
So it will be down a bit.
All of this obviously gets socialized out once we get a rate case but it does have a near-term impact.
Great.
And then you may have answered this before so I apologize.
But in the press release you talk about “offsetting the Susquehanna outage in other aspects of your competitive supply business.” Can you extrapolate on that a bit? Sure.
A couple of things there.
One is the performance of our peaking and intermediate units during the outages performed very well and we captured additional margins that weren't in our plan to help offset that.
Our marketing and trading activities have been very strong.
As Paul mentioned in his remarks our full requirements contracts those that are left have been performing very well.
So a number of things like that have really helped offset what otherwise was obviously a big hole that we had to fill.
Okay.
And then you also say that -- strong performance from the U.K.
business.
So when I think about trying to model this going forward clearly those things that are happening to offset Susquehanna might not be structurally repeatable.
We know that what's happening in Kentucky is kind of hopefully just a little bit of a speed bump between rate cases at least and -- but on the U.K.
side should we presume that the positive performance relative to your plan is sort of -- we can count on that as a base off of which you'll then sort of grow the business into next year? Yes we're great.
We're...
Clearly there are one-time items there that are not structural.
No.
What we're trying to do is -- when we came up with the acquisition pro forma it was actually a relatively high level on an annual basis.
And we're trying to determine whether the monthly data that we're seeing is going to be consistent and repeatable into the future.
We had debated actually pulling back again and giving you the sensitivity analysis that we did at year end around the new consolidated bigger business.
We're going to try to do that at the end of Q3 so that you've got a basis for being able to do the modeling.
But we're clearly hopeful that this is performance that can be repeated.
Okay.
So better-than-expected but for now you want to see if it’s -- there’s some follow through? Yes.
We just got to get through the monthly analysis.
We do have the annual data now completed in terms of the quality of service performance for both the legacy and the acquired business and we'll be analyzing that and finishing the audits with option and be able to report on that at the end of Q3 the outcome in terms of bonus revenues for next year on both pieces as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Real quick question on Pennsylvania demand at your regulated business.
A little surprising the weather-norm data in the quarter.
Positively surprising given what some of your peers in the state -- like I'll give an example PECO's weather-normalized demand was pretty modest at best.
Just curious what are you guys seeing both on the residential side and on the industrial side in Pennsylvania that some of the others in the state may not be? Well I think as I mentioned earlier Michael I wouldn't focus a lot of attention just on a quarterly number because there are individual-specific industry events industrial customers for example that move in and out quarterly.
So I would focus more on the 12 months ended figures which are on the bottom chart there.
But I think relative to Kentucky for example the unemployment rate in Pennsylvania is better than the national average where it's actually the reverse in Kentucky.
I don't know that there's anything structurally different in our service territory than in the PECO territory.
The one caveat or exception to that is the Marcellus Shale drilling.
There is some infrastructure being built in a very small section of our Western territory that is seeing positive impact as a result of some more housing starts and other services coming into that territory.
But we're on the very fringe of that so I wouldn't expect that to drive the numbers significantly.
But as I mentioned in my remarks we are expecting about a 1% to 2% load growth year-over-year by year end.
[indiscernible] And a follow-up question unrelated.
Since the environmental rules started coming out meaning with MAAC coming out in the spring and CSAPR in the summer just curious is there any different tone in the discussions with the coal suppliers about pricing? Meaning everybody can look at what the financial forwards are but pricing that could be a decent bit below that if you're willing to lock up supply if you have scrubbed assets? Well I think everyone is following the impact of it.
I think in terms of just the overall big picture clearly compared to where we were in 2007 and '08 our prices even though they looked to be much or somewhat improved if not much improved by '13 '14 '15.
They're still low relative to those historical periods.
So clearly as we look at the economics of our coal plants there are still some challenges out there.
So I think both the coal suppliers as well as the rail companies recognize the challenges that are there.
I think the bigger driver to the energy price at the end of the day is really going to be and Paul mentioned this the SO2 and the NOx emissions credit levels.
And we're assuming what could be a little bit on the low side about $1 400 a ton on the SO2 side and about $500 on the NOx side.
And we've seen some pretty big spreads out there upwards of $5 000 in the SO2 case and $9 000 on the NOx case.
So I think that's probably at the end of the day going to be a key driver to how much lift we see in prices when we get out to the '13 '14 timeframe.
Your next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith from UBS.
First with respect to Susquehanna did I -- if you read between the lines there did you say $60 million to $65 million now versus a prior of $50 million to $60 million in terms of the ultimate impact? Yes.
Correct.
What drove just the incremental there? Was it versus power? Yes it was just what -- the ultimate power prices wound up being a lost opportunity.
About 90% of the cost that we experienced if you will was margin-related or margin losses.
The rest was O&amp;M related.
Great.
And then secondly if I can read between the lines on your comments on CSAPR you've locked up more on '13.
Is that more to say less positive on the earlier stages of CSAPR and more bullish on call it the second half or stage 2? Yes.
I think that's right.
And also as I mentioned we think '13 is really a transition year and there's still volatility out there.
I mean just looking at what happened in the markets yesterday both the stock market driven by the economy and then the commodity markets yesterday it continues to be volatile.
So recognizing that and seeing that we had a couple of rallies in the quarter second quarter we're able to take advantage of that and lock in what we thought were pretty decent prices for '13.
And as I mentioned we've still got the upside from the collars and the open positions for the rest of the fleet in '13.
And then '14 is essentially all fully open.
And Julien what I would say -- and while I wouldn't say these moves would be dramatic I wouldn't look at what our hedged levels are as simply being a steady march up.
To the extent that we're able to layer in hedges at very good prices and we see weakness in the market you could see a quarter-on-quarter movement where the numbers would move down.
So I wouldn't look at it as we just simply lock and then never touch them again either.
So we do look to take advantage of the portfolio as we move through time.
Great.
And then finally it looks like the projected rate base numbers have ticked up just a bit here.
Is all of the Kentucky CapEx at this point baked into your projections? I mean what changed quarter-on-quarter perhaps addressing Kentucky specifically? At the end of the day it was very small movements.
Everything that we can see from a Kentucky perspective is in there.
Everything that we see from a Pennsylvania perspective if we're evaluating the likelihood of an alternative rate mechanism and creating some attractiveness for an additional spend is in there.
All of the hydro projects are bullish.
They both all are on-budget and on-schedule.
So we don't see any deviations there.
Small movements as we look through time on maintenance CapEx around the Supply business.
Those get moderated a little bit as we get new numbers but no big movements.
Your next question comes from the line of Marc de Croisset from FBR Capital Markets.
Just a couple of questions on Kentucky.
Are you able to kind of have a sense of what the trailing ROEs are in Kentucky? Yes.
We don't typically report on a quarterly basis on that.
And it's difficult because we've only owned the asset for a very short period of time.
I think what we've indicated in the past is and I know this isn't really answering your question narrowly but clearly when we see ROE dip down into the low 9 range we'd be expected to go in for a rate case.
It's a little bit of an artificial period now because of the agreed stay out.
But we are seeing some softness from a sales perspective.
We're doing what we can from a cost standpoint to try to recoup some of that lost value there.
But we don't report on a quarterly basis and we've got new financing in versus the legacy financing that E.ON had.
So even looking back 12 months when we've done on a dead IPO we've recapped the entities it wouldn't be a very good comparator to mix part our capital structure part the legacy.
Right.
Understood.
And do you have a sense though how that business might -- how it's going to operate with CSAPR in 2012? Are the Kentucky utilities going to be -- will they need credits? Will they -- how will they comply with the CSAPR rules in 2012? Well I don't think -- first off yes I think we've got everything built into our plans that we know about right now relative to CSAPR.
And we think that's pretty solid.
I can't see anything unforeseen if that's kind of what you're looking at.
Yes I was just getting a sense for whether or not they were generally in compliance the -- my general sense about Kentucky is that the SO2 reductions I think it’s in Kentucky tend to be pretty tough as well.
And I was wondering how the utilities were positioned to adapt to that.
Well yes it's a good question.
I think in general for the larger stations we have a lot of equipment on there.
There are couple of stations where we're going to have to upgrade for SO2 compliance.
But the bulk of the investments are really going to be on bag houses to deal with mercury and particulates in addition to some SCR-type equipment.
But overall we've tried to include in the ECR filing everything that we believe is going to maintain our compliance.
We did also indicate earlier in an IRP integrated resource plan find that there could be up to about 800 megawatts of generation that would potentially be retired that probably would not be economic to put on environmental controls to comply.
A couple of those large units that have to have that first generation set of scrubbers replaced with new generation to the extent that -- and as they look at the economic generation it's absolutely the lowest-cost generation that goes to a certain customer base.
The entities are now a net long generation with a 600 megawatts net to their interest coming from the 800-megawatt Trimble County 2 Unit which is fully scrubbed with current compliant scrubbers would be able to satisfy that load.
So if there's any impact it would likely potentially be a smaller amount of off-system sales.
And it shouldn't be -- we shouldn't be seeing anything from a cost perspective that's not recoverable from the customer even in the short term like 2012 that would be meaningful.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon from Keybanc.
What are you seeing with regards to shopping in Pennsylvania? Yes shopping does continue in our territory to increase where we're -- as of the end of last month at about 550 000 customers shopping representing I believe about 72% or 73% of the total retail loads.
So most of the -- of course the C&amp;I customers have been shopping for quite some time.
So we're up to -- continuing to see shopping go forward.
And I think it's -- well it's probably leveled off somewhat.
It's still incrementally expanding.
Just switching gears to U.K.
A lot of -- why Midlands made sense was the back leverage.
I mean is that fully set up? Is there more potential upside from financing creativity you could do there? I don't think there's any more from financing creativity.
We'll obviously continue to work on over the long-term kind of tax strategies around repatriation.
But we basically mimicked the legacy WPD debt structure with 80% debt to RAV.
When you combine opco debt with the holdco debt that's kind of -- in optimized levels and maintain a Baa3 rating an investment grade rating at the 2 respective holdcos the one that owns the legacy the one that owns Midlands.
And I wouldn't expect us -- unless the rating agencies would evolve their view over time to let us put on some additional debt.
I think we've been vacillating over the last 6 or 7 years at WPD at between low-70s to low 80% holdco debt to RAV and I wouldn't expect that we'd be moving meaningfully out of that range.
So I think we've optimized as best we can at this point.
And your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold from Deutsche Bank.
[Technical Difficulty] And your next question comes from the line of Raymond Leung from Goldman Sachs.
[Technical Difficulty] And your next question comes from the line of Daniele Seitz from Seitz Research.
I just was wondering if the 1% to 2% demand growth includes above normal weather in July? No.
That would be weather-normalized growth.
And your next question comes from the line of again Jonathan Arnold from Deutsche Bank.
[Technical Difficulty] Your following question comes from the line of Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
A real quick question financing update on the equity side.
Can you just provide an update given the slight change you've made in CapEx et cetera in terms of your Trimble to your equity financing? Yes it's not in any way meaningfully different than we've disclosed in the past.
It might have up-ticked a very small amount.
But still we're talking modest amounts through drip dribble [ph] at the market late '12 late '13.
We kind of got everything that we needed for the 18-month period through the equity raise that we did upsizing that in April.
So it's still in that same zip code that we talked about in the past.
Your next question comes from the line of Ivana Ergovic from Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> I'm just wondering whether you're going to have an extra SO2 allowance to sell now and 2012 and 2013 Pennsylvania given that your generation is current? We do.
If you look at the allocations that EPA has provided we do have excess allowances in '12 but then we are short in '14.
There are some limitations on how much we can bank but our initial strategy would likely be to try to bank those that we can and use them in future periods.
For those that are not able to be banked we would look to sell those.
Inc.</strong> So what happens in '14? So you would use those from 2012 and 2014 and forward? Correct to the extent we could.
And to the extent they cannot be carried over then we would sell them in the near term.
Meaning if they're available in '12 and we couldn't carry them to '13 '14 we'd sell them to others that need them.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And what about Kentucky? Kentucky I believe is not in a similar position.
I believe they were either flat or maybe just slightly over in '12 and then also short allowances in '14.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And is there a deadline by which Kentucky commission has issue a final decision in your environmental rate case? In the ECR mechanism we'd expect a determination late this year in December -- by mid-December.
Inc.</strong> But there is no deadline? Or that's the deadline? That would be the normal timeline to rule on that filing.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just another quick question.
Could you provide some update on your transmission line Susquehanna-Roseland? Sure.
We continue to look for a record of decision in October of next year with construction to begin shortly thereafter.
The majority of the construction would be in '14 and '15 with an in-service date targeted around mid-'15.
We would expect our portion of the line to be completed in the mid-'14 type timeframe.
Your next question comes from the line of Lauren Duke from Deutsche Bank.
I had a question on the hedging.
I know you mentioned that some of the additional hedges were to take advantage of price spikes related to the CSAPR rules.
And I was wondering because it seems -- I know in your slide is says the hedges are as of June 30.
So does that just mean you saw some run up ahead of the rule being finalized? Or some of these hedges have taken place after what we see on this slide? No.
These would've been put on prior to the end of that quarter.
So they do not reflect any activity since the end of the quarter.
And we did see prices run up in anticipation of the final rule coming out even though it didn't come out till July.
And your next question comments from the line of Tom O'Neil from Green Arrow.
Apologize if I missed this but on the rail contract that's up for renegotiation just wondering if you could scope the issue a little bit more for us? Just is this -- like 9 million tons is about the right number? And then just what the current price is? Well we don't disclose the actual prices.
But what we've disclosed in the past is that the rail for contracts for 2011 were expected to be -- they've cost about in the low $20 per ton range.
And we would expect -- and that contract ends in 2012.
So we're in negotiations in advance of the expiration of that at the end next year.
So we still have time on the contract.
In terms of anything else I'd just say we're in discussions right now and I really don't want to comment much further on it at this point in time.
Okay.
And the volume is that about right? The volume I believe is actually a little bit lower than that.
I think we're probably talking -- because in our total volumes of 9 million that includes Keystone and Conemaugh.
So I believe it’s about 7 million -- let me just see if I can pick it up before you.
I think it's about 7 million tons.
It would be like around 8 million tons roughly.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Reza Hatefi from Decade Capital.
Just another follow-up on Slide 16 the new hedge disclosure for 2013 is that around-the-clock prices for PJM East? Or is it more peak-weighted? It is a combination of peak and off-peak and it is probably slightly weighted to the on-peak side.
So it's kind of a weighted average and it's not precisely in around-the-clock.
But probably a little heavier weighted on the on-peak but it's not that it's all on-peak clearly.
And I guess looking at Slide 20 around-the-clock and PJM in 2013 is about $48 and that's kind of where it's been roughly all year.
And you guys were 10% to 15% hedged I think coming into the year for 2013? So I guess I'm just trying to figure out what else could have driven that average hedged price to $53 to $56 when 2013 prices have been in the $48 ballpark for this year? Yes.
I think it's -- first you hit on one of them which is I believe we’re about 20% hedged coming into the year at higher levels than average $48 around-the-clock.
So that's one driver.
And then the other is just the fact that it's a little bit more heavily weighted to on-peak in terms of the levels of hedging that are included in this number versus off-peak.
And there were periods Reza in the quarter where we did see price spikes that we did take advantage of $2 to $3 price moves yet.
So that does blend in as well even if they've come back off of those levels.
And I think that’s why Bill referenced that when we look at it in total it's $200 million.
Actually it's slightly more than $200 million in the money as of the end of the quarter.
[Operator Instructions] And there are no further questions in the queue at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.
Okay.
Well thank you all for being on the call.
We feel we had a good quarter very pleased with our performance and the ability to offset some unexpected outages to Susquehanna.
Both units are back up running so we're looking forward to talking to you at the end of the third quarter.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tequila and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the PPL Corporation Third Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Joe Bergstein you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining the PPL conference call on third quarter results and our general business outlook.
We're providing slides of this presentation on our website at www.pplweb.com.
Any statements made in this presentation about future operating results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
A discussion of factors that could cause actual results or events to vary is contained in the appendix to this presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Jim Miller PPL Chairman and CEO.
Thanks Joe.
Good morning everyone.
I'll just make a few general business comments and then I'll turn it over to Paul Farr Chief Financial Officer who will provide a much more detail financial overview.
And then Bill Spencer President and Chief Operating Officer for an operations -- in-depth operations overview and then we'll go to questions.
Today we announced reported third quarter earnings of $0.76 per share an increase of $0.25 from the same period a year ago.
For the first 9 months of the year our reported earnings are $1.91 per share compared to $1.40 through the first 3 quarters of 2010.
Ongoing earnings for the third quarter were also $0.76 per share versus $0.74 in the third quarter of '10 and ongoing earnings through the 3 quarters of 2011 are $2.02 per share compared with $2.29 a year ago.
We noted in our release this morning that per share ongoing earnings for both periods were affected by the issuance of common stock to fund our recent acquisitions in Kentucky and the U.K.
During the quarter our solid performance from our newly acquired businesses in Kentucky and the United Kingdom helped overcome earnings pressure on our competitive Supply business and our Pennsylvania Delivery business and we remain highly confident in our ability to achieve the economic performance we projected for the expanded U.K.
business.
Through the first 9 months of the year earnings performance was driven by the contribution of our Kentucky regulated segment strong international segment performance and by the PPL Electric Utilities' distribution rate increase that took effect January 1.
The improvements were offset by lower energy margins in our Supply segment driven by higher-priced hedges rolling off unplanned outages to replace turbine blades and our Susquehanna nuclear units and higher storm restorations expenses in Pennsylvania and the dilution I spoke of from the equity issuances for the acquisitions.
The integration of our new operations in the U.K.
has been extremely successful to date.
Our new operating models in place for WPD Midlands and our U.K.
team is showing significant positive results for customers and share owners.
We remain on-track to complete this integration by the end of the year and at a cost below our estimate at the time we announced the acquisition in April.
Let's turn to the 2011 forecast.
We're pleased to announce that we're increasing the 2011 ongoing earnings forecast to $2.55 to $2.75 per share from the previous $2.50 to $2.75 per share.
The increase was made possible by the strong performance of our portfolio of regulated businesses coupled with the ability of our competitive Supply business to overcome the margin impact of the unexpected outages at the Susquehanna nuclear plant.
So clearly the larger more rate-regulated PPL has provided significant advantages for our share owners.
And our significant regulated infrastructure investment opportunities are expected to provide sustained growth in each of our regulated businesses for the years to come.
Compound annual growth rate in the consolidated regulated asset base projected to be about 9% over the next 5 years.
Further to that more than 2/3 of plan CapEx as we've mentioned earlier will be made under regulatory structures that allow for near real-time recovery of those expenditures.
It's important to note that we made some progress in this quarter on legislation in Pennsylvania that will allow the regulator to consider methods to reduce the frequency of rate cases and reduce regulatory lag on distribution investments made by utilities in the Commonwealth.
We're hopeful that this legislation which already has passed the state house will receive Senate approval and Governor Corbett's signature by the end of the year.
Also our Supply segment remains well-positioned to the eventual rebound of competitive wholesale capacity in power prices.
There's good news for our investors here as well.
The recent finalization of cross-state air pollution rules firming [ph] spark spreads and the potential for a recovering economy point to how -- higher power prices beginning in late '13 or early '14.
And now I'll turn the call over to Paul for detailed financial results.
Paul? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
Let's start with Slide 6 to review our third quarter results.
Third quarter earnings from ongoing operations were higher than last year primarily due to the performance of our newly acquired utility.
These positive drivers were significantly offset by dilution resulting from the common stock issued in April of this year to fund our central networks acquisition lower margins on our Supply segment and higher storm restoration expenses in our Pennsylvania regulated segment.
While there's no comparator for 2010 performance for Kentucky because that acquisition didn't close until November 1 of last year I'd like to remind everyone that the Kentucky segment earnings include the operating results of KU and LG&amp;E holding company cost of LKE interest expense associated with the 2010 equity unit issuance and dilution of $0.03 per share.
Let's now move to the international segment earnings drivers on Slide 7.
Our international regulated segment earned $0.22 per share in the third quarter a $0.10 increase over last year.
This increase was due to the operating results of the Midlands utilities including interest expense of $0.02 per share associated with 2011 equity unit issuance higher earnings in WPD's legacy businesses resulting from higher Delivery revenues primarily due to higher prices partially offset by higher pension and other operating expenses higher income taxes and dilution of $0.04 per share.
Moving to Slide 8.
Our Pennsylvania regulated segment earned $0.05 per share in the third quarter of 2011 a $0.03 decline from last year.
The decrease was the net result of higher delivery margins primarily due to the distribution base rate increase that went into effect on January 1 higher O&amp;M primarily due to higher storm restoration expenses and dilution of $0.01 per share.
Turning now to Slide 9 for supply.
This segment earned $0.36 per share in the third quarter of 2011 a decrease of $0.18 per share compared to last year.
Lower Q3 earnings were driven by lower energy and capacity pricings in the East and higher-delivered coal prices partially offset by higher margins on full requirements sales contracts and higher baseload generation higher income taxes and finally dilution of $0.07 per share.
On Slide 10 we've updated our projected 2011 free cash flow before dividends.
The change in cash from operations since the second quarter earnings call is driven by slightly higher expected operating results and a change in working capital including lower expected return of collateral from third parties.
Cash flows are also impacted by lower projected capital expenditures primarily in the Kentucky regulated and Supply segments.
Turning to Slide 11.
Our dividend clearly remains the key element of total share owner return.
And as we outlined here the current dividend is covered out of rate-regulated business earnings.
The combination of the Midlands acquisition and the growth prospects of our utility businesses that Jim mentioned clearly permit us flexibility to look at dividend growth.
Moving over to Slide 12 now.
And as we indicated we would do in the second quarter earnings call we're providing some modeling parameters for the enlarged WPD related to future earnings.
I'd like to remind everyone that we provided WPD net income figures for 2011 to 2013 to the roadshow materials earlier this year.
Let's begin with revenues which are projected to increase by an average of 5.5% per year plus inflation for the balance of the price-controller [ph] period that ends March 31 2015 plus any annual incentive awards earned through performance.
After achieving the Midlands integration efficiencies from that acquisition most of the operating cost should increase with inflation although depreciation expense will increase at a higher rate due to increased levels of capital investment.
Pension expense is expected to increase from GBP 20 million in 2011 to GBP 50 million by 2013 and then decrease modestly thereafter.
In calculating interest expense most of our debt is fixed-rate debt except for about GBP 365 million that is inflation-linked.
I would expect that we will maintain our current cap structure as we grow the U.K.
rate base and balance sheet which is comprised of 65% debt-to-RAV at the Yacos [ph] and 80% debt-to-RAV at the holdco [ph] levels.
And for the foreseeable future our consolidated effective tax rate is expected to be about 24% for that segment.
Combining new drivers with a foreign currency translation rate you should be able to reasonably determine the international regulated segment's future earnings contribution.
Again we provided the projected net income figures for 2011 through '13 back earlier this year when we announced the deal and subsequently issued the equity using a $1.60 per sterling translation rate.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bill for an update on operations.
Okay.
Thank you Paul and good morning everyone.
Let's turn now to Slide 13 start with an operational review of the third quarter.
Overall as Paul noted we had another very good quarter of financial performance.
In Pennsylvania we had a couple of major regulatory developments this past month in both the Distribution and Transmission businesses.
On October 4 the Pennsylvania House of Representatives passed House Bill 1294 with strong bipartisan support by a vote of 183 to 18.
This bill is intended to clarify the authority of the Pennsylvania PUC to approve a request for alternative rate-making mechanisms by regulated utilities such as PPL.
We strongly support the bill in its current form as we believe that it will help reduce regulatory lag currently experienced on certain distribution-related capital expenditures and add meaningful benefits for our customers.
House Bill 1294 has been referred to the State Senate where it will work through a similar process as the House.
We're hopeful the bill will pass the Senate this year and will be sent to the governor for the signature.
With respect to Pennsylvania transmission on October 5 President Obama announced the initial list of projects under the newly formed federal rapid response team for transmission.
PPL's Susquehanna-Roseland power lines was named to this initial list.
The rapid response team is expected to accelerate review and permitting of Transmission Line projects to increase reliability and save consumers' money by modernizing the grid.
Susquehanna-Roseland remains under review by the National Park Service which is performing an environmental impact statement.
We look forward to working with the rapid response team as we have been with the National Park Service to ensure a thorough and comprehensive review in a timely manner that will support availability of the new line by early 2015.
The fact Susquehanna-Roseland was added to the initial list shows the Obama administration recognizes the importance of the new power line and the need for swift action on federal permits.
We continue to be very optimistic about an in-service date in the spring of 2015 with heavy construction to begin in 2013.
In addition to positive regulatory developments in Pennsylvania we also saw a positive operational execution during the quarter after some of the worst storms the East Coast has seen in quite some time.
In late August Hurricane Irene left significant damage to the electrical equipment downing trees on wires and destroying  poles.
It was the second worst storm our Pennsylvania utility has experienced in the past 20 years.
Our skilled and dedicated workforce was up to the task of restoring power to more than 400 000 customers in a 3-day time period.
We thank the crews from other utilities that came to assist in the restoration efforts and in particular we would like to thank the crews from LG&amp;E and KU.
Unfortunately those same folks have been put to the test again this past week.
We've experienced our fourth major storm of 2011 last Saturday with ice and heavy snow accumulation on trees and power lines which affected 10 transmission lines and scores of distribution lines in the Lehigh Valley causing 320 000 total customers to lose power.
Once again crews have been doing a great job recovery from in some areas an even more devastating storm than Hurricane Irene.
We do not expect a significant impact to our earnings as a result of all these storms.
Some costs will be capitalized or covered by insurance.
And for the remaining costs we will seek deferral for future consideration.
Moving to Kentucky.
We filed a certificate of public convenience with the KPSC on September 15.
This certificate requested approval to build a 640-megawatt natural gas combined cycle generating unit at the existing Cane Run site as well as approval to purchase 3 simple cycle natural gas turbines from Bluegrass Generation Company.
These turbines will provide up to 495 megawatts of DC [ph] generation.
These requests were filed to cost-effectively meet new stricter EPA regulations.
It will likely be necessary for us to retire 3 coal-fired generating stations at Cane Run Green River and Tyrone totaling 800 megawatts.
We requested that the KPSC rule on the CKCN [ph] by April of 2012.
Let's move to Slide 14 for an update of the International Regulated segments.
Execution of integration plans for the Midlands operations remain solidly on track in all respects.
The organizational structure reorganizational plans have been finalized and implementation has already begun.
The total estimated cost to reorganization is $102 million pretax.
The integration is progressing as scheduled and we've already seen positive movement in key operational metrics and financial results in the first 7 months of ownership.
As originally contemplated we are on plan to complete the final organizational and system changes during the fourth quarter.
Completion of this work will allow us to achieve the efficiency savings that we shared with investors when we announced the acquisition in April.
We will provide you with a more detailed update at the EEI Financial Conference next week.
We plan to illustrate how our U.K.
team including the Midlands employees are already beginning to deliver value to customers and share owners.
Moving to Slide 15.
We've outlined sales volumes by major customer classes in Kentucky.
In summary retail sales for the quarter were relatively in line with the prior year on a weather-normalized basis but remain challenged by lackluster economic conditions.
Residential and commercial volumes both declined somewhat over the most recent 12-month period.
Customer growth has not materialized and usage rates per customer have also declined.
Industrial sales are generally driven by specific plant issues.
For the 12-month period we saw increased production at some of our larger industrial customers compared to the prior 12-month period.
Moving to Slide 16.
We provide details on sales volume variances for PPL Electric Utilities.
Weather-normalized residential sales were higher for the quarter compared to the prior year due to modest slow growth and the addition of new customers.
Commercial industrial sales were lower for the quarter reflecting slower economic recovery in the region from levels experienced in 2010.
On Slide 17 we provide our normal detail on the competitive Supply segment hedges.
The baseload power hedge levels for the remainder of 2011 are 100% and prices are essentially the same as our previous disclosure.
We've adjusted our expected generation outputs for 2011 to reflect actual results through September 30 and our forecast for the remainder of the year.
During the quarter we adjusted some power hedges in the East for 2012 but we anticipate being fully hedged before we start the year.
For 2013 our hedge profile is now at 72% as we've layered in some additional hedges.
By the end of this quarter we would expect to be 60% to 90% hedged for 2013.
We're of course ahead of that schedule somewhat as we took advantage of favorable power price rallies.
Over 50% of the 2013 hedges were done with callers so we do stand to capture upside of these hedges should prices move higher.
But of course we protected against the downside if the CSAPR impact is less than expected or forward natural gas prices soften further.
Of course we would still have the remainder of our unhedged 2013 baseload production and most of our gas-fired capacity available to capture benefits of strengthening power prices should that occur.
As Jim mentioned we maintained an optimistic view for 2014 believing that the confluence of CSAPR implementation prospects for an economic recovery and firming gas prices could further expand heat rates.
Our generation business is expected to benefit in that type of environment.
Now I'll turn the call back to Jim and I look forward to your questions.
All right operator would you please open the call for Q&amp;A? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Kevin.
I guess on your comments on supply you indicated that you're looking at being more optimistic on the hedging program in 2014.
Can you give us a flavor on really what that means? And then on the Rail side I realize you're in negotiations but can you just kind of point me in the right direction of will it kind of be in line with the current contract or a little below? Well it's hard on the coal contract rail contract first really hard to predict at the moment.
We are as you pointed out in negotiation.
So I really prefer not to comment on that.
But on the hedges for 2014 we do have an open book for 2014.
I think we're going to wait and see how that CSAPR regulations really translate into market prices as well as keep a close eye on natural gas prices and I think we'll have a better feel for that of course once we get into early 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess maybe changing focus a little bit.
So on Kentucky can you kind of offer a little more color on what's going on there and just kind of what the dialogue is on the ground? And are they looking at maybe considering less retrofits in favor of new gas? Or to maybe do a little more purchase power versus rate pacing? No I think Kevin the plan that we filed both with respect to the certificate that Bill mentioned for the gas-fired generation when you combine that filing with the IRP and with the ECR everything that we've contemplated in that consolidated set of filings brings together the lease costs compliance program for the consumer.
If we were to retire more generation on an NPB basis that would result in our view in a much higher cost for the consumer.
And that last plant that cleared the hurdle if you will in terms of making retrofits again on an NPB basis would not result in the most economic decision on the behalf of the customers.
So I think we're in good shape there.
So as it relates to the consumer end of it it's the right decision and we're simply going through that ECR filing we'll get the certificate in April of next year.
But the ECR should be done by mid-December this year.
And that -- those hearings are going to take place in the next couple of days here that 2-day hearing starting on the 9th of November fully as expected.
So that's pretty much by way an update.
Research Division</strong> Will the ultimate level of the ECR ROE be subject to this filing or is that a different process? I mean the ROE is susceptible to being addressed.
But again as we look at where the movements have gone both with respect to the GRC ROEs and the ECR ROEs they've moved on a modest basis over past cycles.
And we wouldn't expect anything different here.
Your next question comes from the line of Kit Konolige with Ticonderoga.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us any sense in the U.K.
what the bonus revenue situation is looking like for 2012? Yes we got the results signed off by Ofgem in September.
And on a consolidated U.K.
basis it's approximately $30 million that will begin to be collected April 1 of next year through 3/31 of 2013 slightly ahead for both the WPD legacy component as well as the acquired utility as to what we thought would be our -- then again recognize that we got a substantial amount I believe it was almost GBP 50 million of upfront revenue bonus for the legacy WPD property in the filing for accepting tougher in the press control review decision by accepting tougher targets.
So it'll be you have to combine for legacy WPD both the upfront award and the interim bonus to be able to get the total award if you will.
Research Division</strong> Just to be clear on that so the legacy award is already in place.
So that's showing up in current earnings and then there'll be another 30? Well for both utilities we [indiscernible] signed off on in September of last year is being earned April 1 this year to 3/31 of '12.
That will fall away then and then the bonus outcome that was awarded or determined if you will in the September sign-off this year will kick in and will begin to earn those revenue bonuses.
We actually have a chart where you'll see the revenue bonuses for legacy and for Midlands that goes back over the past I think it's 6 or 7 years.
Research Division</strong> Very good okay.
And just -- I'm being dense on this I know.
So is the change in next April when the next round kicks in is that a negative delta at that point? No it should be a positive delta because the outcome at WPD legacy net-net decrease was I believe offset by the increase that we saw at Midlands.
Midlands saw improved performance from the prior owner that we inherited as this outcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> When you upped your midpoint guidance does that incorporate the impact of the recent storms? Or are you going to carve that out as a special item? It's included in the results for Q3.
There was $0.01 or $0.02 of impact in EU within the quarter that was again in excess of -- from an expense perspective in excess of the insurance limits under the policy that we got for that program.
So we would expect to carve out that plus the impact that we're going to experience here in Q4 within Q4.
And again we'd expect to defer the cost.
In fact there was a filing already made for the Irene cost and we'll be making likely a subsequent filing for deferral for the Halloween storm.
Research Division</strong> And if HB 1294 were to pass in this present form can you kind of give us a sense of what the impact would be from a lag standpoint? Well I think it's hard to tell.
But we like the current form.
I think it's in good shape for what we had hoped to achieve.
And I think our expectation would be to get something that looked more like [indiscernible] formula rate-type mechanism in place.
But until we see the final bill and it's approved by the governor’s office we'll make subsequent filings and adjust as we need to.
We wouldn't expect Paul that we have a material adjustment to our forecast of the CapEx until we get out until at least '13 or early '14 just given the amount of activity that's currently going on in transmission work both with respect to Susquehanna-Roseland as well as several other material projects like -- I wouldn't expect in terms of the impact on the lag that we'd see that; one until we get it approved as part of a filing next year for our D rate case and then two until we adjust the actual CapEx spending plan.
Research Division</strong> And then what are the drivers you indicated? Supply was improved trading and marketing? Can you kind of give us bookends as to how much that improved? Sure.
As we mentioned on the previous call we had planned about $40 million in the marketing and trading arena and we were slightly ahead of that coming out of the second quarter.
We added to that probably another $10 million to $20 million during the third quarter.
So the favorable market conditions gave us some opportunities particularly around our mid-merit assets.
As Paul mentioned in his opening remarks the low-volume contracts that we had performed better than expected even though they're fairly small compared to -- and we have had very positive experience with our retail book.
You may recall that we started more aggressively selling in the PPL and other Pennsylvania territories locally here to mass-market as well as C&amp;I customers.
Research Division</strong> And as much as a federal rapid response is an oxymoron how incrementally positive do you think Susquehanna-Roseland being added to that is? Well I think it does add a considerable amount of weight behind our project.
And there's just a few projects that are included on that list and we're happy that ours is one of them.
But I think it illustrates the importance of that line to the regions.
So we feel good about it and think it is a real positive.
Research Division</strong> You have a high degree of confidence in the spring of '15? We do.
Your next question comes from the line Bill Appicelli with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just a question regarding the organizational structure and rework cost the $102 million pretax.
You made some commentary that things are going better there.
How does that number stack up with what you guys had thought back in April? We had thought back in April I think the numbers we outlined was $109 million of cost this year and $36 million next year.
So it's going to be around $145 million.
85% of that number was going to be roughly be redundancy cost and the balance will be basically IT infrastructure spending plus a few other items.
And as Jim mentioned I think we'll come in at modestly below the cost expectation for both this year and next.
And that I would expect that we would be able to slightly or modestly outperform some of the synergy numbers that we outlined given that the amount of cost that we're taking out is slightly ahead of plan as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But you still feel comfortable with the net income targets that you gave back in the roadshow that those are achievable? And if not maybe some upside? Yes very.
And again I think you need to factor in the comments that I made back and it was -- might have been Kit that asked.
I forget who that -- we did not embed the $40 million pretax of revenue bonus for the '13 '14 fiscal year in those numbers.
And then again yes we're going to be slightly outperforming on a cost basis.
Now we do at the local entity levels end up capitalizing quite a bit of cost for construction-related activity so it doesn't all fall to the bottom line.
But there should be some tailwind to those numbers that we provided.
And then just switching gears it looks like the hedging profile to the East amount of -- the volumes hedged in 2012 came down a bit.
Is that right? And can you give us some color behind that? Yes we did lower just slightly by about 6% overall.
That just really reflects minor adjustments that reflect our view on market and dispatch conditions.
Nothing really more than that.
And to profile I guess we'd expect to likely close out by the end of the year.
We did open up the book a bit to take advantage what we see as an opportunity for some improvement in '12 pricing.
And as I mentioned in my opening remarks and Paul reiterated we would expect to be close to 100% by the end of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan with Visium Asset Management.
Paul just based on your hedges and capacity prices and everything is it fair to say that the generation earnings will have their I guess their low point next year and from there it should be a positive trajectory? Yes when you look at the effective gas prices that the hedges are at I would think that's reasonable.
Obviously total margins are dependent upon power and that curve is in contango.
And as Bill mentioned we're pretty much fully opened in the East from '14 and beyond.
So generally I would expect that just marking it to a curve and with what we think will happen and what we've already booked in terms of added outcomes and capacity auctions I think that's pretty accurate.
If you look at the energy-only setting aside capacity for a moment the energy-only and the average hedge prices for '12 and '13 are pretty consistent.
So energy-only would be if these prices hold would be relatively flat and then you're left with capacity price increase.
And then does Midlands -- can I ask you so how much of accretion should we expect this year? I mean there was a pretty strong accretion in the third quarter.
What is accretion level expected this year can I ask? When announced the transaction it was $0.10 to $0.15.
I think we're probably moving slightly ahead of that the midpoint of that figure at this point.
But I would expect that range to hold.
We're maybe at the upper end but that's the range.
Okay.
And then finally if I can ask Paul how are you all taking the currency risk? Are you -- for next year could you just go over how you're hedging your currency going forward? Yes very consistent with what we've done in the past.
And that is as we approach the end of the year and get into the beginning of a year we try to be approximately 75% hedged on translating that year's earnings so we can provide a narrower guidance range.
We're basically at those levels already for next year.
We've done a decent amount of color.
If we mark those all at the floors of the colors probably in the -- what we have hedged in the $1.59-ish type range for next year on that 75% we use $1.60 for sterling in the net income numbers for '12 that we gave in the roadshow materials.
So pretty much right on top of that.
You can see where we sit today at a $1.60 $1.61 where we stand from a frontline basis.
So we're right in line with those numbers.
[Operator Instructions] There are no further questions in queue.
Okay.
Well I thank you all for joining us this morning.
I know there's a number of calls this morning.
So we feel very good about a strong quarter and working towards finalizing this year's earnings.
And we're very pleased with our status of our acquisitions.
And as well we're very pleased with the potential we see in the U.K.
for our bonus situation.
So thanks again and see you at EEI.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Amanda and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the PPL Corporation Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Joe Bergstein Director of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining the PPL conference call on fourth quarter results and our general business outlook.
We are providing slides of this presentation on our website at www.pplweb.com.
Any statements made in this presentation about future operating results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
A discussion of factors that could cause actual results or events to vary is contained in the appendix to this presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Jim Miller PPL Chairman.
Thanks Joe and good morning everyone.
Thanks for participating in the call today.
As most of you -- I think all of you know I'll be retiring from PPL at the end of March so this will be my last earnings call with you.
Obviously it's been a real thrill with serving PPL for the last 6 or so years as Chairman and CEO and it certainly has been a highlight of my career.
A lot have changed a lot of interesting transactions throughout the sector and certainly many many many challenges that we've tried to seek finding the opportunities within that realm of challenge.
I would say that PPL is fundamentally a very strong company and we've made significant progress over the past few years in further strengthening the foundation which we can continue to grow the value for the share-owners.
And I am real confident that you're going to see the best years of PPL ahead as a result of the work we've done over the last several years.
We've got a great team in place under Bill Spence's leadership.
I'm sure he'll turn that confidence into a reality.
So I thank all of you on the phone for your interest in the company and for your diligence in assessing PPL's performance over the years of my tenure.
So I wish each of you continued success and good fortune in your areas out there.
And again I think you'll see PPL flourish under its new portfolio structure and a lot of opportunities lie out there ahead for us.
So today I'll talk a little just a little bit about the overview of 2011 results and talk a little bit about our positioning for the future.
Then Bill will provide an overview of our '11 operational performance a review of future prospects for each of our business segments and a bit of discussion on our 2012 earnings forecast.
And then Paul Farr our Chief Financial Officer will provide very detailed financial review before we turn to your questions.
As you saw in the announcement fourth quarter earnings of $0.69 per share compared with $0.73 in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Earnings from ongoing operations for the fourth quarter were $0.70 per share compared with $0.83 in the same period a year ago.
Our reported earnings and our earnings from ongoing operations were each $0.13 per share lower than a year ago due to dilution from the April 11 common stock issuance.
For the quarter both reported earnings and ongoing earnings were pressured by lower wholesale electricity margins at our Supply segment.
Turning to the year-end results we announced 2011 reported earnings of $2.61 per share an increase of $0.44 per share over 2010.
Our 2011 earnings from ongoing operations were $2.72 per share compared with $3.13 per share in 2010.
Now the '11 earnings from ongoing operations reflect dilution of $0.75 per share due to the June 2010 and the April 2011 issuances of common stock to fund the Kentucky and U.K.
acquisitions.
Strong '11 results were driven by solid performance in each of our business segments and I'm also pleased that we're able to announce this morning a rough 3% increase in our annualized dividend.
Our quarterly dividend will now be $0.36 per share.
The increase is further indication of our continued confidence in the strength of our portfolio and our prospects for future growth of the company.
Before turning the call over to Bill and Paul I'd like to review some of the significant factors that position us well for the future.
Clearly we think our business mix has shifted significantly towards rate-regulated earnings providing us stability and security to our earnings forecast dividend and credit ratings.
Approximately 70% of our projected 2012 earnings per share will come from regulated businesses and we expect compound annual rate base growth in these businesses of nearly 8% over the next 5 years.
That growth would result in an $8.1 billion increase in the asset base of our regulated companies by 2016 the equivalent of adding another large regulated utility to the portfolio.
Much of this rate base growth comes from planned CapEx that's already been reviewed by various regulators with very little lag in earning a return for shareowners.
The business mix improvements we've made over the past 2 years of have resulted in an excellent business risk profile rating from S&amp;P putting us in a category with only 2 other companies in our sector.
So our stable earnings mix also makes our dividend more secured and gives us platform for continued growth.
And while wholesale electricity prices remain depressed our high-quality competitive Ghent fleet provides upside in stronger energy markets.
Baseload plants and PJM are complemented by a flexible mix of gas-fired units that'll position us well on the largest wholesale market in the world.
Fuel mix of our fleet differentiates PPL from many other power producers in the sector.
Diverse fuel mix provides us competitive advantages in a variety of market conditions over fleets that are heavily dependent on one fuel source.
Over the past several years I believe that our management team has consistently proven its ability to make the right strategic and tactical calls.
Already our team in the U.K.
has made meaningful improvements in the Midlands operations achieving the financial objectives we announced at the time the deal was signed and subsequently financed.
While we have accomplished a great deal challenges certainly remain.
I'm confident however that Bill and his team of excellent executives will continue to turn these challenges into opportunities and growth for our shareowners.
So I'll now turn the call over to Bill the PPL's new CEO.
Bill? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
I'd like to first take this opportunity to thank Jim on behalf of the executive team and all the employees of PPL for his outstanding leadership in the company over the past 6 years.
In guiding PPL through a very challenging time Jim not only ensured the company weather challenging market conditions he led the implementation of the strategy that has significantly strengthened the company.
Under Jim's leadership PPL fundamentally repositioned itself with 2 transformational acquisitions and aggressive hedging program that has added tremendous shareholder value and operational performance that ranks among the best in our industry.
Congratulations Jim on an outstanding career and thanks for all you've done for PPL.
I'm honored also to have been selected to carry on your excellent leadership.
And speaking of carrying on let's next turn now to Slide 6.
As Jim noted 2011 was a very successful year for the company.
PPL has had now 12 consecutive quarters of very solid performance and 3 consecutive years of exceeding the midpoint of our ongoing earnings guidance.
And as Jim mentioned we've completed 2 transformational acquisitions in an extraordinary fashion.
In 2011 we seamlessly acquired and permanently financed Central Networks in the U.K.
We implemented our integration plan very close to targeted cost and at the high-end of our expected range of synergies.
We overcame extended nuclear outages in poor market conditions in our Supply business and our Electric Utilities in Kentucky and Pennsylvania provided solid results in a lackluster economy.
I'll briefly review each of the 4 business segments starting with the U.K.
Our WPD CEO Robert Symons and his team developed a very aggressive efficient integration plan following our acquisition of the 2 Central Networks utility operations last April.
I'm very happy to report that all of that significant operational integration is now complete and that Western Power Distribution is now serving over 7 million customers with a radical improvement in WPD Midland's operations in just 9 months.
This is possibly one of the most dramatic changes ever made in the U.K.
utility industry and I expect WPD Midlands will now join WPD South West than WPD South Wales as the U.K.'s front-tier performers on several incentive measures.
These dramatic improvements are appearing in 4 key areas: percentage of customers restored to service within one hour of high-voltage fault; minutes that customers are without service; the number of customers without service for more than 18 hours; and the number of customer interruptions per 100 customers.
There are charts in the appendix of today's presentation that detail some of these significant improvements.
While these measures are expected to result in incentive revenue opportunities for the company beginning in 2013 customers in the Midland region of the U.K.
are already seeing the benefits of our ownership and our proven operating model.
Our experience in the first 9 months of operating the larger WPD has confirmed our beliefs that this acquisition will create significant benefits for our customers and PPL's shareowners.
Turning back to the U.S.
we achieved a significant milestone when the Kentucky Public Service Commission unanimously approved the settlement of a critical environmental cost recovery case for LG&amp;E and KU.
As a result of the settlement and KPSC action we now have the approval and the cost recovery mechanism to move ahead with approximately $2.3 billion in environmental upgrades necessary at our regulated coal fire plant in Kentucky.
The agreement provides for a 10.1% return on equity for these projects which will be completed over the next several years.
In Pennsylvania our electric distribution operations certainly had its challenging year facing 2 of the most damaging storms in the company's history in just a 2-month period.
In addition to significant flooding in some areas of our territory.
In all cases our experienced and dedicated crews did an extraordinary job restoring service to customers at very difficult circumstances.
In the restoration effort we received excellent help from other utilities from our mutual assistance program and from PPL's sister companies LG&amp;E and KU.
Regarding customer service PPL Electric Utilities LG&amp;E and KU have continued to garner additional J.D.
Power awards.
In total the 3 companies now have 32 J.D.
Power awards more than any other utility in the U.S.
Turning to the Supply business segment we were able to achieve our 2011 earnings expectations despite the extended outages at our Susquehanna nuclear plant which caused us nearly $100 million in pretax margins.
Our team brought both units back in it service within just 6 weeks and they've operated reliably ever since.
And the rest of our Supply business including our marketing operation and our other power plants rose to the challenge significantly offsetting the loss of nuclear output demonstrating the value of our diverse fleet.
I'm also pleased with the work our coal group did in 2011 negotiating a long-term rail contract for coal delivery.
While the details of the contract are confidential I can say that we were able to negotiate a multi-year contract that is expected to provide more stable coal transportation cost.
Coupled with our other transportation arrangements we expect to maintain overall transport cost in the low to mid-$20-per-ton range for the next several years.
In summary over the past 3 years PPL's made and financed bold acquisitions completed swift integrations and executed value-accretive generation hedges.
This is in addition to the strong operational regulatory performance.
Our resulting business mix of high-quality utilities and diverse competitive generation provide the strong foundation that Jim talked about creating shareholder value.
As Jim said we believe PPL's best years are yet to come.
Before discussing our earnings forecast for 2012 let me take a few minutes to review the positioning of each of the 4 business segments.
Starting with the International Regulated segment the headline here is that the U.K.
operation is a highly-attractive rate-regulated business with expectations of significant growth.
The U.K.
regulatory system provides network operators with pre-approved 5-year forward-looking revenues which are inflation-adjusted and take into account capital spending as well as O&amp;M cost.
In addition we have the ability to earn incentive revenues and we face no volumetric risk.
This results in a real-time return of and return on capital investment without the lag that is often the norm in the U.S.
regulated businesses.
WPD is the top-performing electricity distribution business in the U.K.
leading the way in capital and operating cost efficiency customer service and reliability.
In the past 7 years we've earned more than $380 million of incentive revenues the highest percentage of bonus revenue among U.K.
electricity distributors.
As I mentioned earlier we have completely transformed the Midland operation in just 9 months clearly positioning us to earn additional incentive revenues.
PPL Kentucky operations represent a very positive case of "what you see is what you get." LG&amp;E and KU are efficient well-run utilities that are also projected to have significant rate base growth in the coming years.
As the result of the constructive regulatory climate that's focused on the long-term needs of customers we have in place mechanisms that provide for timely return on a substantial portion of the CapEx plan over the next 5 years.
We currently estimate compound annual growth in our Kentucky rate base of 9.6% over the next 5 years.
We're also forecasting significant growth in both our transmission and distribution rate base in Pennsylvania.
On the transmission side we now estimate a compound annual growth base rate of nearly 22% through 2016.
This is driven by the 145-mile Susquehanna-Roseland transmission project and other initiatives to improve aging transmission facilities in Pennsylvania including a recently announced significant new project in the Pocono Mountain area.
There have been some recent positive developments regarding the approval process for the Susquehanna-Roseland line and we hope to receive approval from the National Park Service before the end of this year.
We're also continuing to upgrade aging infrastructure on our distribution system which covers 29 counties in Pennsylvania.
Our distribution improvement efforts are expected to result in a 6% compound annual base growth over the next 5 years.
A related positive development on this front comes from the legislative initiative to provide an alternative ratemaking mechanism in the state.
This mechanism would permit the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission to authorize recovery of costs for pre-approved infrastructure improvement projects to our distribution system improvement charge.
This legislation was passed by the State House incentive within a year of being introduced.
The Senate bill passed unanimously and then moved back to the House for concurrence where it also passed unanimously just this past Tuesday evening.
Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett has been supportive of the legislation and we would expect them to sign the bill within the next week.
The legislation will take effect within 60 days of the governor signing.
We would anticipate the model tariff and other PUC guidance to be completed this year and companies would then be in the position to file for recovery using the new mechanism early next year.
While the industry continues to face the challenge of low wholesale power prices our competitive generation business continues to be well positioned having the diversity to capture value in a variety of market conditions.
In PJM we have more than 2400 megawatts of low marginal cost nuclear and hydro facilities in addition to the 2 800 megawatts of efficient supercritical coal units that have state-of-the-art emission control equipment that put them substantially in compliance with new emission standards without any major investments.
We do not believe current forward prices reflect the costs that comply with MATS or CSAPR rules and industry-wide expected coal plant closures.
Our fundamental analysis suggests forward power prices are not reflecting the incremental costs necessary to comply with EPA rules which we estimate to be in the $3 to $5 per megawatt-hour range.
Of course notwithstanding this fundamental analysis the current market reality is power prices remain soft.
PPL's well positioned in these challenging markets and I point to a couple of factors.
We've been very successful on hedging our generation for '12 and '13 and have one of the strongest hedge profiles in the sector.
But beyond hedging I believe an often overlooked and highly attractive aspect of our fleet is the more than 2 400 megawatts of gas-fired plants we have in PJM.
Our gas-fired assets are capturing an increased share of the markets as they've been running at near baseload production levels.
For example in 2011 they ran at a combined capacity factor of 78% that's up from 43% in 2009.
Our gas fleet can benefit from lower gas prices.
Displacing less efficient coal units this should help offset some unhedged dark spread risks associated with our coal assets.
And of course this is precisely the benefit of fleet diversity.
Our flexibility and fuel type dispatch response and technology type provide opportunities and reduce volatility under a variety of market conditions.
And to further enhance our fuel diversity we are exploring options to operate some of our coal units of natural gas.
Turning to the next slide we provide a regular look at hedge positions for 2012 and 2013.
We've increased hedged levels for both years and provided a range for our hedges reflecting potential variability and generation production and our use of options.
Each can cost some variability in the hedge volumes.
Focusing on 2013 the additional hedges were primarily for off-peak power.
You may remember that during the second quarter call we actively hedged 2013 to capture an increase in power prices and at that time I indicated those hedges were biased towards on peak power.
The hedges we executed since the third quarter essentially bring our booking balance between on peak and off-peak.
Looking at the intermediate and peaking data you can see we've increased our expected production from the gas-fired units caused by the market dynamics that I described earlier.
This increase partially offsets our lower expected output from the baseload coal fleet.
Before I turn the call over to Paul let me summarize our 2012 earnings forecast and then I'll ask Paul to take you through the details.
This morning we announced the 2012 earnings forecast of $2.15 to $2.45 per share.
While this forecast is as expected lower than the results we achieved in 2011 I want to highlight several important points before Paul provides a detailed review of our 2012 guidance.
The largest driver is an expected decline in energy and capacity margins from our Supply business as higher price hedges are rolling off.
I don't think that's a surprise to any of you on the call.
The lower supply margins are partially offset by 4 additional months of earnings from the Midlands utilities.
Again I don't believe this is unexpected.
However it's important to note that our forecast for International exceeds the expectations relative to 2012 net income we'd previously communicated to you.
As you will see from Paul's slides and what may not be as expected we are planning to spend significantly more in improving our customer service and reliability in Pennsylvania and Kentucky.
This increase amounts to about $0.15 per share compared with spending in 2011.
As you know many utilities including PPL were hit with devastating storms in 2011.
While PPL companies responded very well we believe there are areas for improvement that will help us do an even better job when faced with such challenges in the future.
We believe the proactive approach will not only improve service to our customers but will maintain or improve our regulatory margin as we faced rate proceedings in 2013 and beyond.
Finally I wanted to highlight that our Supply business operating expenses in 2012 are roughly $0.10 per share higher than 2011.
This increase is driven by more plant fossil outages and higher costs at our Susquehanna nuclear plant some in response to anticipated NRC initiatives.
In closing I'd say that 2011 was another solid year for PPL's particularly in terms of challenges met and opportunities seized.
We're well positioned for 2012 and our announced dividend increase reflects our optimism in the PPL strategy.
Now let me turn the call over to Paul.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
Let's move to Slide 13 to review fourth quarter and year-end results.
As outlined on this slide the largest positive driver of earnings from ongoing operations in the fourth quarter came out of the U.K.
and was primarily due to earnings from the Midlands acquisition.
This positive driver was more than offset by the combined impact of dilution of $0.13 per share as a result of the common stock issued in April to fund the Midlands acquisition and lower energy margins as we expected.
Full year 2011 earnings from ongoing operations were favorably impacted by the financial performance of our utilities in U.K.
and Kentucky.
These positive drivers were offset by dilution of $0.75 per share resulting from the common stock issued in June 2010 to fund the Kentucky acquisition and the common stock issued in April of last year to fund the Midlands acquisition.
As forecasted our Supply segment had lower margins in 2011 compared to a year ago.
Because the Kentucky acquisition did not close until November 1 2010 the fourth quarter results are not fully comparable.
However I'd like to remind everyone that the Kentucky Regulated segment earnings include 4 major items: the operating results at KU and LG&amp;E the holding company costs at LKE interest expense associated with the 2010 equity unit issuance and dilution of $0.11 per share.
Let's move now to the International Regulated segment earnings drivers on Slide 14.
Our International Regulated segment earned $0.87 per share in 2011 a $0.34 increase over 2010.
This increase was due to the operating results of the Midlands utilities net of interest expense of $0.05 per share associated with the 2011 equity unit issuance higher earnings in WPD's legacy businesses resulting from higher delivery revenue primarily driven by higher prices and a more favorable currency exchange rate.
This was partially offset by higher pension expense higher income taxes and dilution of $0.24 per share.
Moving to Slide 15 our Pennsylvania Regulated segment earned $0.31 per share in 2011 a $0.04 increase over 2010.
This increase was the net result of higher delivery margins primary due to the distribution base rate increase that went into effect in April 1 of last year.
Lower O&amp;M -- lower taxes primary due to a Pennsylvania state tax benefit related to the 100% bonus depreciation last year and dilution of $0.09 per share.
Turning now to Supply on Slide 16 this segment earned $1.14 per share in 2011 a decrease of $1.13 per share compared to 2010.
Lower earnings in this segment were driven primarily by lower regulatory margins as a result of energy and capacity prices in the East lower baseload generation lower basis and higher delivered coal prices.
This was partially offset by higher margin on coal requirement sales contracts.
Also impacted 2011 results were higher O&amp;M at Susquehanna in our fossil and hydroelectric stations in the East and the West higher income taxes primarily due to valuation allowances on Pennsylvania net operating loss carryforwards that were driven by lower projected future taxable income including the impacts of bonus depreciation and lower forward energy prices.
Finally dilution of $0.31 per share.
Turning now to Slide 17 as Bill already mentioned we are announcing our 2012 earnings forecast range of $2.15 to $2.45 with the midpoint of $2.30 per share.
This slide shows the year-over-year change in earnings by key drivers within each segment.
The $0.13 impact of dilution has been removed from the segment earnings and is shown as a separate line item on the graph.
We expect increased earnings from the International Regulated segment primarily due to an additional 4 months of earnings from the Midlands businesses basically our 4 highest earning months of the year and an annualized increase in delivery revenue of 9.5% effective April 1.
Partially offsetting these positive earnings drivers are higher O&amp;M higher depreciation higher income taxes and a less favorable currency exchange rate.
We expect lower earnings from our Supply segment in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to lower energy margin as a result of lower energy and capacity prices and higher fuel costs partially offset by higher nuclear and coal generation output higher O&amp;M primarily due to additional plant outages at our Eastern fossil and hydroelectric stations higher depreciation higher income taxes and an assumption of lower realized nuclear decommissioning trust earnings that we experienced in 2011.
The lower earnings from the Pennsylvania Regulated segment are primarily due to higher O&amp;M as a result of plant increases and system reliability work and customer service costs as Bill mentioned and higher depreciation resulting from higher plant and service.
We also expect higher income taxes as a result of the 2011 Pennsylvania State tax benefits related to bonus depreciation that will not continue into 2012.
These negative earnings drivers are expected to be partially offset by higher delivery revenue primarily on the transmission side of the business.
We expect lower earnings from the Kentucky Regulated segment due to certain regulatory initiatives in the areas of customer service gas pipeline safety and infrastructure security increased operating and maintenance costs from additional plant or plant outages and higher baseline spending.
We also expect higher depreciation as a result of higher plant and service.
These increased costs will be partially offset by higher budgeted electricity and gas margins due to expected low growth our growing ECR rate base and base rate increases from Virginia and the FERC.
On Slide 18 we provide updates on our free cash flow before dividends.
For 2011 this graph obviously excludes the impact of approximately $5.8  billion necessary to fund the Midlands acquisitions.
Our 2011 projected free cash flow before dividend has not changed materially since the third quarter call.
A decrease in actual capital expenditures was due to lower capital spending in the Supply and Kentucky Regulated segments partially offset by higher capital spending in International.
The changing CapEx was almost entirely offset by a change in other net investing activities.
The largest driver of 2012 free cash flow before dividends is projected capital expenditures of $3.8 billion primarily at our rate regulated businesses.
The details of our projected capital expenditures and related rate base growth can be found in the appendix of today's presentation.
Partially offsetting the increase of capital spending is higher expected cash from operations in the International Regulated segment primarily due to the additional 4 months of Midlands operations versus 2011.
Cash from operations also reflects projected pension contributions of around $400 million for the year.
Due to large fluctuations that can occur in certain cash flow items like changes in working capital and collateral requirements on power hedges starting at 2012 we no longer plan to discuss quarter-over-quarter changes to our year-end projections of free cash flows before dividends.
We will provide an annual estimate of free cash flow before dividends for the upcoming year at the time we announce earnings guidance.
You can obviously track the company's actual free cash flow before dividends using our SEC filings though.
Finally turning to Slide 19 as Jim mentioned earlier we have raised the annualized dividend 2.9% to $1.44 effective with the April dividend payment.
This dividend level represents a 63% payout ratio based on the midpoint of our 2012 earnings forecast and is expected to be more than covered by our rate regulated earnings.
The combination of the acquisitions we completed over the last 2 years the diversity of the competitive generation fleet and the growth prospects of our utility businesses clearly permit us to look at flexibility in growing the dividend in the future.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Jim for the question-and-answer period.
All right.
Thanks Paul.
Operator open the call up for questions please.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Marc de Croisset from FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask a brief question about the earnings trajectory or the trajectory for EPS growth if you could comment on it.
On previous calls you mentioned your expectations for higher power prices in '13 and '14 and it looks like you still hold that view.
But for the moment we basically have a stay in CSAPR.
We've seen substantial decline in forward natural gas and power prices.
And so if this actually materializes given these facts do you see enough drivers on the regulated side to offset those headwinds and any impact from the converts to drive earnings growth in '13 and '14 from 2012? Okay.
One of the reasons why obviously beyond just having rate case filings that we expect for next year like we have multiple fronts.
Clearly the commodity markets are dynamically changing and the environmental regulations stays obviously make it difficult to predict earnings on an intermediate forecast basis.
I would expect as we look at current forward collar prices that we would be able to offset much of the decline that could come from margin declines with rate regulated earnings growth that would be a combination of those rate case filings I've talked about the ECR spending in Kentucky the normal formula rate adjustments that we've got coming through the FERC jurisdictional transmission in Pennsylvania Electric Utilities as well as obviously in this year in 2013 on an annualized basis starting April 1 I talked about the 9.5% revenue increase for that asset base and that's going to continue to grow in '14 and beyond.
I'd expect we'd be able to offset much of it.
The question is obviously what happens between now and the time that we layer in the hedges that secure most or all of 2013 which I wouldn't expect to happen until we move further in the year obviously.
And then '14 as we've talked about in the past is fairly open.
So it just depends upon on what happened in those commodity markets.
I think For what we have control over we've executed very well in terms of the rate case filings and the settlements in those areas and I'd expect we'll do the same in '13.
The thing that we don't have control over is the commodity markets.
Mark this is Bill.
I would say that for 2013 given that we're already over 80% hedged we feel very good about earnings per share growth for '13 as we sit here today.
I think Paul highlighted some of the other risks in '14 and beyond that we're going to have to deal with.
But the fact is with the mix that we have today we are very much well positioned to combat something like this compared to where we were 18 months ago.
So I think as we sit here today we really feel great about the transformational acquisitions we've done and where we are relative to the commodity cycle.
Your next question comes from the line of Ameet Thakkar from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of quick questions.
It looks like the 2012 EPS guidance it looks like you guys have a bit of a wider range than you historically have about $0.10 wider.
And given I guess one-year hedge levels where they stand for '12 and a greater proportion of regulated earnings I was wondering what kind of drove the wider range for this year? There were a couple of things there.
Obviously with the volatility in the commodity prices even though we are substantially hedged they're still of the intermediate and peaking units.
They're open.
There's still some unhedged baseload generation.
That's clearly significant factor.
With International even though things are going very very well and we're actually as I mentioned in my prepared remarks forecasting net income well above even the upper end of the range we gave during the roadshow on the equity offering we're still  9 months into the business so there's potential variability there.
Of course with the economy being what it is that's going to be a factor in addition to weather of course.
So those are some of the factors that went through our minds as we looked at the range.
I think also we've got for 2012 we've got about between actual results where the currency rates are locked and the hedges that we've got in place about 82% of budgeted total year earnings are hedged from a U.K.
standpoint.
But there's a little bit of an open position there.
Interest rates can move on as they can affect the index link bonds in the U.K.
I think it will clearly take a combination of significant items to move us to the top or bottom end of the range.
But we felt like given the very -- Bill mentioned weather the weather was a fairly significant headwind for us in the fourth quarter.
Very temperate in both Pennsylvania and Kentucky.
It's been very temperate in Jan Feb so far.
So we just felt it was prudent to give a range that if a combination of items were to hit us the range would be broad enough to accommodate those items.
But I would say we feel very good about the midpoint of the range and confident that that's an achievable target.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Fremont with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question has to do with based on your projected level of contribution from the regulated companies in Pennsylvania and in Kentucky what type of ROEs does that - earned ROEs does that get you to in 2012? In 2012 that would get us on the Pennsylvania Regulated front and I'll leave the U.K.
to the side because we've talked about the U.K.
in the past and where we get the below the double digits to middle double digits unlevered and get into the low 20s on a lever basis.
Everything is pretty much fully unplanned on that front.
We were in the -- with the benefits of -- which almost $0.04 of bonus depreciation benefit in Pennsylvania get in the 10% to 11% in '11 I would expect with that not recurring and with the spending plan what we've got for the customer and  reliability initiative we talked about that we'd be in the mid-single-digit range for Pennsylvania electric.
And then in Kentucky it's going to be in the 8-ish percent range factoring in at the operating companies and not factoring in goodwill or anything like that given where we expect the spending plans in those businesses to be as well.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Actually a couple of questions.
First on O&amp;M cost in the U.S.
both at the Regulated segments and at Supply what's kind of embedded as a percentage year-over-year increase from '11 to '12? And how much of that is pension versus kind of true -- kind of late labor materials related O&amp;M? When I look at the O&amp;M across the board of course you're focusing on Slide 17 and leave International Regulated off pension year-over-year domestically is $0.03 just in terms of rounded out in full.
It's another $0.01 in the U.K.
so it's a total of $0.04 from an ongoing earnings perspective related to the pension.
Everything else would relate to either movement or higher levels of power plant outage experiences in both Kentucky and in the Eastern fleet as I've mentioned in my comments.
And then inflationary spending around wages and other benefits and things like that.
So those will be the biggest drivers there.
There are specific [indiscernible] related items in Kentucky there are customer service initiatives and responding to an audit that we went through last year in Kentucky that requires some cost support there's the initial reliability base measures that Bill talked about in the Electric Utilities that are several cents a share as well.
So it did -- only about $0.04 in total globally in pension $0.03 domestic.
And I would say Michael the way I'm looking at it about half of the increases year-over-year are driven by the normal labor escalation and the pension cost that Paul mentioned.
The other 1/2 are initiatives specifically focused on customer service and reliability.
Yes now clearly we expect to recover those in the rate filings as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I look at the coal hedging for 2013 for the Eastern fleet if that's delivered ton and it includes rail and if it's low to mid-20s per ton of transport that's implying like roughly $60 $62 a ton of delivered coal a little bit below where we've seen over the last 6 to 12 months kind of before the Appalachian coal prices range.
Just curious are you able to exercise -- are you benefiting somehow from proximity from mines? Are you signing longer-term contracts at lower prices but giving the mining companies a little bit more certainty over the longer term? Do you have some other form of buyer power? Just can you give any color around that? Sure.
And yes you're spot on in terms of the cost of the mine mouth if you will.
And that is really a function of longer-term contracts that we had negotiated some time ago and many of those contracts have collars that limit the increases.
Of course they also limit the decreases as well in a very soft market.
But we're seeing the benefits at least in 2012 and 2013 of the strategy we put in place a number of years ago to lock in a substantial amount of the coal at very favorable prices.
And your next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith from UBS.
Research Division</strong> First question.
With regards to the same hedging slide I just wanted to kind of touch base on the expected generation number there.
You talked about the offset from your gas portfolio.
How much of the change down here is from coal? And how much of an offset are we getting just if you could provide that in terms of terawatt hours? How much is one offsetting the other there? Sure.
Yes if you take a look at the slide and compare it to where we were at the end of the last quarter on the 2012 side expected generation in the intermediate went up from 6.2 gigawatts to 6.9 so that's substantial increase there.
That is displacing if you will some coal generation not so much on our own coal generation but other less efficient units in the market.
On the baseload side you see most of the drop is in the East although there is some drop in the West quarter-over-quarter.
And for 2012 for example we're at 46.2 gigawatts at the end of the last quarter and we're at 45.5 gigawatts in the East this quarter.
That drop is really a combination of 2 things.
One is more plant outages on the coal fleet but also less runtime particularly in the off-peak hours from the coal fleet based on the current soft power prices.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Great.
So there's nothing from the gas side now baked in the baseload for whatever it's worth right? Correct that's right.
It's all down below.
It's all down below.
Even though it maybe running as baseload we still categorize it in the intermediate to peaking area.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then a follow-up on the rate implementation.
Assuming everything gets signed in Pennsylvania I wanted to see does this impact your timing of a rate case this year are you guys still going to go in file a rate case this year and then next year go in and sort of true that up with the implementation? Correct.
We would not anticipate any change in the rate filing we would make which we would expect to file at the end of the first quarter here where the rates effective 1/1/13 for that base rate case.
For the enhanced disc if you will this distribution infrastructure charge we would expect to file that in the first -- hopefully in the first quarter of next year.
It would not be combined with the base rate case.
I think if you read the legislation you know that you have to have it filed within the last 5 years to file this rate proceeding which we will have had.
So we would use that as the basis for the launching off point if you will for the disc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then the last question is more broad.
When I look at the hedging in the Supply business it seems that you guys might be pursuing a little bit less for requirement perhaps more on sort of residential retail what have you.
I just wanted to get the latest thoughts in terms of how you anticipate pursuing the various sales channels on that front.
Sure.
As I've mentioned previously we do look to have a balance portfolio in terms of types of products that we -- and options that we use to hedge the fleet.
So there is a combination of straight sales and West Hub that are just fixed-price.
There is a combination of collars and then we have retail as well.
At this point the retail load is not a large piece of the hedge portfolio.
It's growing but it's probably one of the smaller pieces.
It's really dominated right now the hedges are with fixed prices and collared products.
Your next question comes from the line of Andy Bischof with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question for you in regards to MAAC.
What do you think is kind of the likelihood that MAAC will really face legal challenge and on what grounds do you think someone would base that legal challenge on? I'm sorry it was a little hard to hear the question.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry.
What do you think is the likelihood that MAAC rule will face legal challenge and what grounds do you think someone would base that legal challenge on? Yes.
That's so hard to predict.
I don't think we have a feel at this point for whether it will be challenged.
My guess is that like all these rules that have come before it there will be some type of challenge.
How it's challenged I really can't say.
Your next question comes from the line of Daniel Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Kevin.
On the U.K.
operations what level of incentive and bonus revenues are you assuming in 2012 guidance? In 2012 it was GBP 18.7 million so annualized from April -- and that was based upon the results through March 31 2011 probably a test year or accomplishment year.
We would expect so that would affect revenues from April 1 '12 through 3/31/13.
We would expect to basically at least double that amount for the next year that would be ending here come March 31 '12.
So from April 1 '13 through March 31 '14 it's from instead of $30 million it's closer to $60 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with the dividend with the big increase what is your dividend policy now and how do you expect to grow it in the future? We don't really formally have a policy.
We focus very heavily on clearly ensuring that the rate regulated utilities can more than fully cover the dividend.
What I'd say is that we're trying as best as we can to grow the dividend but at the same time we've got very significant growth opportunities and capital and capital that we can deploy in areas where we earn basically immediate recovery.
So I would expect when you look at that kind of a trajectory of earnings of the rate base and therefore net income growth in the regulated utilities it will be at a fraction of that.
Whether it's 1/3 of that amount or 1/2 of that amount I'm not entirely certain.
There is an element that does depend upon as things kind of fall into line around the fundamentals around supply.
We do consider supply I know that's not as probably as specific as you want but we don't target a specific payout ratio.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question is for 2012 guidance.
Are you assuming like $300 million to $350 million of equity through your DRIP and other programs? Yes.
That's saying we're at $350 million for 2012 as we have kind of discussed previously.
That includes $75 million related to the DRIP and management comp so it will be an incremental $2.75 of issuance.
If the commodity market stays soft I could see that staying at that level for the next couple of years when markets look a little better.
We're looking at amounts less than that over the next couple of years.
So that'll be a little bit dynamic but I wouldn't see it moving materially at all from the $350 million over the next several years.
Your next question comes from the line of Geoffrey Dancey with Cutler Capital.
I'm curious what you see in terms of further switching from coal to natural gas and how important it can be for you and just your broad observations on it sort of across the industry.
Sure I think as we've already begun to see there's significant levels of switching going on now.
And I would expect that to continue with the soft natural gas prices.
For us as I have mentioned in my opening remarks our capacity factor on our gas units was up around 78% last year.
And roughly almost double what it was 2 years before that.
So we are seeing with our  fleet and I'm  sure others are significant additional runimes.
As gas continues to go down if the margins continue to improve there's clearly some upside for those of us that have the capability to use these gas assets.
And what about just the considerations for new plants coming on.
How long and how low do you need to see natural gas prices before you think new plants come on driven based off on natural gas.
Well I think that's heavily dependent not only on the energy price but also on where capacity prices clear in the forward markets.
I think if you look at current capacity prices that have cleared in the last few auctions coupled with where energy prices are today.
I don't think it would even clear the economic hurdles that you'd need to incent new generation.
Having said that as more coal units retire certainly the largest beneficiary from a technology standpoint are going to be gas-combined cycle units and those typically take from on a greenfield site you're talking about a minimum of 3 years between permitting and construction to put those into play.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark de Croisset from FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up.
You mentioned you are lightly hedged in '14.
I'm wondering if you might give us a little more indication around that? Is that a 20% 30% hedging in '14? Or are you substantially open at this point? No we're less than 20% out in 2014.
2010 and 20%.
I was just going to note that we will probably -- when we substantially hedge more of 2014 we'll obviously add that to our slide deck in the future.
But for right now given that it's in that 10% to 20% range we didn't think it was meaningful enough to put it onto the slide.
Research Division</strong> And maybe you commented on this.
I don't recall exactly.
But on Slide 17 you have Other as a headwind between 2011 and 2012.
Can you describe a little bit more what is in that bucket? Yes.
And I've talked about at a high level on my remarks this is Paul.
Let me kind of go through it segment by segment and tell you what's in Other.
In International Regulated that $0.11 $0.06 is depreciation and $0.05 is taxes income taxes.
In the $0.10 of Other in Supply it's about $0.03 of depreciation $0.03 financing $0.02 nuclear decommissioning trust earnings being lower and then $0.01 of truly other.
Pennsylvania Regulated o$0.01 of depreciation and $0.03 to $0.04 related to bonus depreciation that I talked about that wouldn't continue into '12 because the way the Pennsylvania interpretation was worded.
And then in Kentucky Regulated the other $0.02 of depreciation and $0.01 is a mix of other items.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Fremont from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just a clarifying question.
If you were not to do anything either to issue shares or repurchase shares can you just give us a sense of what the diluted -- average diluted share count will look like in '14 given the converts? Given the coverts we move from 550 000 553 000 to 586 000 in '13.
Let me take a quick look 586 000 -- I'm sorry 586 000 in '12.
So it goes 615 000 in '13.
Now that does include a modest amount of additional equity so the DRIP in the management comp is in there.
So if you back off probably call it 10 million shares from that you're closer to 610 000 and then in the year like in '14 you ask for which is 664 000 you'd probably have to back off 20 million to 25 million shares from that.
So you're closer to...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So that would be like 640 000 right? Like 640 000 right.
In that zip code.
And we have time for one further question.
It comes from the line of Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I Just want to ask quick questions on the regulated side.
First Kentucky you mentioned you're going to file this year and Pennsylvania you're still planning to file this year in Kentucky that's a first question.
Second question on the bill in Pennsylvania and the new alternative ratemaking process can you give a little color in terms of how that will be implemented? Is it like a track or a formula rate plan? Or is it just a true multi-year forward test year? The way we read it it seems like you almost have an option of an either/or but we'd love to hear your thought.
Yes of course we'll see what the model tariff looks like from the PSC and any other provisions once they issue those.
But on the Pennsylvania House Bill 1294 we do think there's an option there.
You can either pick a forward test year or the disc-type mechanism.
My understanding of it is that it would be trued up on a quarterly basis so you would file and there's a limit of up to 5% of your distribution revenues that can be filed under this although you can ask for a waiver for additional if you'd like.
And we think that's a pretty substantial amount to go for anyway.
So I would think that we would file as I mentioned earlier some time early next year and then we would probably lean towards the tracking-type mechanism more so than the forward test year but we haven't made that determination yet.
And that's just based on our early read of that.
As it relates to Kentucky we have not announced formally any plan to issue a rate or to file a rate case.
Typically if we were to do so we need to file that about 6 months in anticipation of the targeted date for implementation 6 to 9 months in that range.
As Paul mentioned we're looking at ROEs in the 8 percentage range for this year and we'll -- obviously that's well below the authorized rates so we're obviously going to be looking at our plans for filing a rate case for next year in the next quarter or so.
But we haven't made that decision yet.
Research Division</strong> Meaning you're looking at filing -- you're going to look at it in the next quarter or so about whether you would want to file midyear this year or about whether you would want to wait until filing sometime in 2013? Yes.
Correct but I guess; assuming the 8% holds I would say it's probably more likely that we'd file for rates to be effective 1/1/2013 but again we haven't made an official notice or filing yet.
And presenters I'll turn the call back over to you for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you operator.
Well thank you all for being on the call.
I just offer maybe 3 important points that the team I think has covered today.
One it was obviously 2011 was a good strong year.
16-or-so percent total shareholder return.
I think as Bill mentioned earlier the range for 2012 we feel good about the midpoint of that range at $2.30.
And I think to Paul's comments we feel that although obviously natural gas prices are staying down the reason we move the company in this direction is precisely to be able to perform and hopefully grow earnings during the sustained period of low grass prices.
And at the same time we're growing our dividends so that people -- dividend is important too.
They're being paid that dividend while we wait for probably a couple of years for prices to start to move up.
But they will move up given the ultimate retirement of coal and demand picking back up.
So I think we feel as a whole that the company is positioned very very well to face the future and we feel pretty good about where we sit today.
So thank you all for being on the call and it's been great working with all of you.
Take care.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Matthew and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the PPL Corporation First Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Joe Bergstein Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the PPL conference call on first quarter results and our general business outlook.
We are providing slides of this presentation on our website at www.pplweb.com.
Any statements made in this presentation about future operating results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
A discussion of factors that could cause actual results or events to vary is contained in the appendix to this presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Spence PPL Chairman President and CEO.
Thanks Joe and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on the call today.
We appreciate your continued interest in PPL and as always we look forward to answering your questions.
To facilitate more interaction on these calls we're going to be condensing our prepared remarks today and we also have all 4 business unit presidents with us for the Q&amp;A.
Joining us today are Vic Staffieri President and Chief Executive Officer of LG&amp;E and KU which is our Kentucky Regulated segment; Rick Klingensmith President of PPL Global who has responsibility for our United Kingdom Regulated segment and our Energy Services business; Greg Dudkin President of PPL Electric Utilities our Pennsylvania Regulated segment; and Dave DeCampli President of our Competitive Market Supply segment; and of course Paul Farr is joining us our CFO.
First I'll kick off the call with an overview of our first quarter results and operational highlights for the first 3 months of the year then Paul will provide more details on our segment performance for the quarter.
Following his remarks we'll turn to your questions.
With that let's go ahead and get started.
Today we announced reported first quarter earnings of $0.93 per share up from $0.82 in the first quarter of 2011.
Earnings from ongoing operations for the quarter were $0.70 per share compared with $0.84 a share in the same period last year.
Our first quarter earnings from ongoing operations reflect $0.14 per share of dilution from our April 2011 common stock issuance to finance our acquisition of the Midlands utilities in the U.K.
As you can see in our segment results for the quarter we had very strong performance in the U.K.
including the successful integration of the Midlands operations.
These quarterly results demonstrate the value of our expansion and into diversified regulatory jurisdictions and the attainment of a more predictable earnings profile.
While our Competitive Supply segment has become a relatively smaller piece of the pie our Supply team continues to successfully navigate through these very challenging commodity markets.
Paul will go into additional details on a segment-by-segment basis but the weather-driven weakness in our Domestic Regulated businesses were offset by the strength of our U.K.
operations and very good Supply segment performance.
So despite the impact of the mild winter our first quarter results keep us solidly on track to achieve our 2012 earnings forecast.
Today we are reaffirming our forecast of $2.11 -- or rather $2.15 to $2.45 per share in earnings from ongoing operations.
Now let's turn to a brief operational overview for the quarter.
Starting in the U.K.
Western Power Distribution has fully integrated the Midlands operations on schedule and within budget.
As you can see from the slides in the appendix to today's presentation WPD employees have already made dramatic improvements in performance resulting in material benefits not only for our customers but our shareholders as well.
Our current assessment in the case that annual cash cost savings for the Midlands operations will be higher than what we projected during the acquisition announcement and equity financing last spring.
These cost reductions are not coming at the expense of customer service rather just the opposite.
In just 12 months Midland customers have seen a 40% reduction in customer minutes lost an important measure of performance in the U.K.
We've also accomplished a 96% reduction in customers out of service for more than 18 hours a 26% improvement in the number of customers restored in just 1 hour and a 22% improvement in the number of interruptions per 100 customers.
These customer service performance improvements will result in additional incentive revenues in the future for WPD.
We also believe that these improvements will further cement WPD's reputation as the gold standard for network operations in the U.K.
We recently received some very good news on the Susquehanna-Roseland Transmission Line project.
The National Park Service confirmed our preferred route through the Delaware Water Gap as the most desirable alternative.
We expect a final record of decision from the National Park Service in October.
This timing will allow us to have the line is service to meet the 2015 PJM peak demand.
In our Competitive Supply business we completed the acquisition of a 700 megawatt gas-fired power plant in central Pennsylvania.
The purchase of the AES Ironwood plant represented an excellent opportunity for us to expand our gas fleet at an attractive valuation and in our own backyard.
All of our competitive power plants had high availability during the quarter and our gas-fired units saw increased run times as a result of low natural gas prices and a displacement of higher cost coal units.
Our combined cycle gas units are already seeing close to maximum run times.
For example our Lower Mount Bethel was operating at a 92% capacity factor in the first quarter.
Ironwood had very strong numbers as well but that unit underwent a plant outage during a portion of the quarter.
Our energy market and trading operation is driving value from these assets through our expert knowledge of market dynamics.
Our team has done an excellent job in capturing value and executing hedges at the right time and as you can see on our hedge disclosure slide in the appendix we've updated it to reflect actual results through the first quarter and the termination of the Southern Montana contract.
The modest change in coal prices reflects the lower coal burns this year shifting some of the deliveries to next year.
Our hedge levels for power in 2014 are not materially different from the 10% to 20% we discussed on our year end call in early February.
We have chosen to keep our hedging at this level because we don't see value locking in prices that we think are currently artificially low.
We continue to believe that current forward power prices do not appropriately reflect the cost to comply with MATS and CSAPR rules or all anticipated coal plant closures.
We also believe we can see even further heat rate expansion as gas and power prices continue to decouple in the forward years.
Finally we see current forwards being disproportionately affected by the short term weather economic and gas market dynamics.
These factors and the competitiveness of our mid-Atlantic fleet lead us to believe that there is more upside opportunity for 2014 than downside risk at this point.
On the nuclear front Susquehanna Unit 1 is in the midst of its refueling outage.
You may have seen our recent press release indicating we've identified several cracks on low pressure turbine blades on Unit 1 and will be scheduling an inspection of unit 2 turbine blades as well.
As we said in our release the financial impact of these replacements is not expected to be material.
Moving now to the Pennsylvania Regulated segment.
I'll provide you with a summary of the distribution rate case increase request that PPL Electric Utilities filed with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission just at the end of March.
We expect that any approved increase would go into effect January 1 2013.
Slide 7 provides some details of the request.
We expect the PUC following its normal procedure to announce its plans to conduct a formal proceeding on the request.
These proceedings will include technical and public input hearings during the summer an administrative law judge-recommended decision in the fall and a final PUC vote which is expected in December.
As indicated on the slide a 1% change in the allowed ROE amounts to about $23 million in revenue.
This case does not include any request for alternative rate treatment or a DSIC mechanism under the new Pennsylvania Act 11 law.
That law does not permit filing of DSICs before January 1 2013.
As always we'll keep you posted on the rate case developments and we provided a docket number here so you can follow the proceeding.
As I mentioned earlier our first quarter results provide us with additional validation of the robustness of PPL's current portfolio.
Because of the geographic and regulatory diversity of our business we remain on track to achieve our earnings forecast despite some of the mildest winter weather that our domestic utilities have ever seen.
Over the past several months I've been asked numerous times about potential changes in the company strategy under my leadership of PPL.
I've obviously been very involved in our strategic direction for some time and I believe time has proven the value of the steps we've taken over the past several years.
Going forward our focus is going to be on delivering high-quality service to our customers and remaining flexible in our Competitive Supply business to respond to dynamic market conditions.
I believe our current business mix is one of the most attractive in the sector as we have significant growth opportunities in each of our Regulated business segments and a very competitive generation fleet.
With 70% of our 2012 ongoing earnings coming from growing rate-regulated businesses we have a very solid platform for continued growth.
We're forecasting compound annual rate base growth of about 8% over the next 5 years in our utility operations in the U.S.
and the U.K.
The resulting $8 billion of net rate based growth will come from infrastructure investments much of which have already been approved by regulatory agencies or recovered in formula rates.
This includes the improved environmental cost recovery spending in Kentucky our approved capital spending in the U.K.
through early 2015 and transmission projects in the U.S.
We also received regulatory approval yesterday from the Kentucky Public Service Commission to both acquire and build gas-fired generation in Kentucky.
Our regulated utilities are recognized for high-quality customer service excellent reliability and positive storm response which as you know are keys to successful long-term regulatory relationships and customer satisfaction.
PPL will continue to be sharply focused on these important areas.
While many of us await improved fundamentals in the electric commodity sector PPL's favorable mix of nuclear coal gas and hydro facilities gives us flexibility in the current market and will provide significant upside potential when markets ultimately recover.
In summary I continue to believe that PPL's current strategic position is a compelling one and our focus will be on the execution and delivery of the commitments that we've made to customers and our share owners.
I look forward to your questions following Paul's comments.
Paul? Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
Before I provide details of the earnings drivers for the first quarter I first want to discuss the equity financing that we completed in early April through a forward transaction.
This offering combined with our existing DRIP and management comp programs fulfills the $350 million of equity need for the year that we have consistently communicated.
We decided to issue the stock through the use of a forward contract in order to de-risk the equity exposure we had and accomplish that without affecting the expectations we set regarding share count and EPS for the year.
In fact the EPS impact is actually pushed out slightly beyond the late 2012 timeframe that we recently communicated to you.
As part of our internal comprehensive risk management program and for the same reasons we had generation output fuel interest rates our currency for known exposures we used this forward transaction to mitigate risk around our equity need.
Beyond the de-risking benefit we also wanted to alleviate a potential overhang on the stock which several of you have recently voiced as a concern.
Given the current state of commodity markets there has been concern that we may need additional equity beyond the $350 million previously communicated.
We do not.
The regulated acquisitions we completed combined with modest amounts of equity to fund rate base growth provide credit stability that will help us endure prolonged weak commodity markets.
With that let's move to Slide 8 to review our first quarter financial results.
PPL's first quarter earnings from ongoing operations are down from a year ago driven by $0.14 per share of dilution associated with the April issuance last year of common stock to finance the Midlands acquisition; lower energy margins at the Supply segment; and lower electricity sales due to the extremely mild weather experienced in our U.S.
service territories.
These negative drivers were significantly offset by strong operating results in the U.K.
including the Midlands operations that we acquired April 1 of last year.
Let's turn to the Kentucky Regulated segment earnings drivers on Slide 9.
Our Kentucky Regulated segment earned $0.06 per share in the first quarter a $0.09 decrease compared to last year.
This decrease was primarily driven by lower margins due to lower retail electric volumes from mild weather which impacted margins by $0.03 as well as lower op system sales.
We had higher O&amp;M primarily due to the increased scope of scheduled generation outages in 2012 higher depreciation due to higher plant and service and dilution of $0.01 per share.
Moving to Slide 10.
Our U.K.
Regulated segment earned $0.31 per share in the first quarter a 15% increase over last year.
The increase was due to the operating results of the Midlands utilities net of interest expense associated with the 2011 equity units and higher delivery margins in our legacy WPD operation primarily driven by the net impact of higher prices and lower volumes.
These positive earnings drivers were partially offset by higher O&amp;M including higher pension expense; higher U.S.
income taxes; and dilution of $0.06 per share.
Turning now to our Pennsylvania Regulated segment on Slide 11.
This segment earned $0.06 per share in the first quarter a $0.05 decrease compared to a year ago.
This decrease was the net result of lower delivery margins of $0.02 primarily due to unseasonably mild weather; modestly higher O&amp;M; higher depreciation again due to higher plant and service and dilution of $0.01 per share.
Moving now to Slide 12.
Our Supply segment earned $0.27 per share in the first quarter a decrease of $0.15 compared to last year.
This decrease was primarily the net result of lower Eastern energy margins driven by both lower energy and capacity prices and partially offset by higher nuclear generation; higher O&amp;M; lower income taxes primarily due to a lower state effective tax rate; and finally dilution of $0.06 per share.
And with that by way of review I'd like to turn the call back to Bill for the Q&amp;A period.
Okay operator I believe we're ready to start the call -- or the questions rather.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You're certainly messaging a pretty constructive or more constructive than market view on 2014 power markets.
How long do you guys feel comfortable not getting more active in the hedging program as you look out that far? I guess is question number one.
Sure.
Well as I mentioned in my opening remarks we are thinking that at least at this point the MATS and CSAPR impacts are not appropriately reflected.
I think we'll probably learn a lot Dan potentially from the capacity auction when the results come out and see what units are actually going to be retired.
But beyond that there is a point at which we're going to begin to hedge in.
We won't leave it completely open until we get to 2014.
So I think as we've done in the past we have a fairly disciplined hedging program.
We have plenty of time at the moment to make those decisions and pick our spots when we hedge in.
And I think in the past we've done a really great job of picking those times to hedge in.
So I think we're going to have an opportunity and if it gets too late in the process we'll begin to selectively hedge in.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess in Pennsylvania with the rate case can you just remind on thought process? Not necessarily for this case but for next cases as far as when you're going to file again since you're not going to get the mechanism this time through.
Does it mean that there's going to be another case shortly thereafter so you can get the DSIC in place after this case gets done? Yes Dan we would expect that once this case is completed we would file for the DSIC and then probably in future rate cases we would use a future test period.
Research Division</strong> And you're going to file that in '13 at some point in time then? For the DSIC yes.
I think for the rate case itself that's yet to be determined.
Research Division</strong> I got it.
Just comprehensively on weather for the quarter.
How much was the overall drag Paul if you were to add up all the pieces between supply and U.S.
utilities? If I took the $0.03 in Kentucky plus the extra $0.01 of all systems sales which also -- there was just outright demand destruction across many systems it was about $0.04 in Kentucky and then $0.02 in EU so a total of $0.06.
Your next question comes from the line of Kit Konolige with Konolige Research.
LLC</strong> So on the question of equity Paul you were pretty clear that you're not going to need additional equity related to I'd say a cash shortfall that might be arising from low commodity prices.
What's the outlook over the next several years? You have a significant structural free cash flow deficit.
What's the schedule for funding that with equity and how should we view it overall on how equity fits into your cash needs over the next few years? Okay.
I'd really break it into 2 component pieces Kit.
We will be getting incremental cash of roughly $2 billion over the next 2 years from the conversion of the converts.
So that equity will provide a meaningful de-levering of supply and results in incremental cash to the company.
On top of that we think we'll still need the roughly $350 million per year for the next several years as we make our way especially through the large rate-based build in Kentucky.
And after that program is complete the cash flows are relatively robust there.
The CapEx programs I would look at kind of projecting forward the levels of spend that we got in both EU and in WPD.
There are strong opportunities and needs to put capital to work there but the big build in Kentucky does have some finite into it.
So I think we've got plenty of equity opportunity just given how we finance the 2 acquisitions and then later in that $350 million per year that we've talked about at least for the next several years.
LLC</strong> So we should think in terms of some time in '13 you would logically be raising equity again in an offering similar to this one? Yes that's correct and I would be looking late in the year like we were this year.
LLC</strong> Very good.
Okay one other question on the Pennsylvania segment.
What's the kind of run rate of your actual return on equity at this point? Yes Kit.
I'll ask Greg Dudkin the President of our electric utilities to answer that.
Kit we're running about mid-single-digits on our ROE for our distribution at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Justin McCann with S&amp;P Capital IQ.
I have 2 questions one for Paul and one for Bill.
Paul just a follow-up from Kit's question.
What do you expect the average diluted shares to be for '12 '13 and '14? Just one second I'll pull those numbers for you.
So for '12 it's right around 585 million shares.
For '13 around 615 million and for 2014 670 million roughly.
Okay.
And Bill at the reception in New York last month and basically this [indiscernible] you mentioned the [indiscernible] of the gas prices for power prices.
If you could elaborate on that.
Sure.
I think what I'm really referring there to is the correlation between gas and power which had been historically in the last decade or so very strong is already beginning to break down.
So you're seeing improved heat rates particularly on gas units of course.
And what we're seeing there is the fundamentals of the power side beginning to take over just the strict correlation of the marginal fuel in PJM.
So as more units are being retired and supply and demand come in to closer balance we're really seeing the fundamentals of the power market driving power prices not just fuel input such as natural gas.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
I wanted to touch base with you on the tax rate.
It looked like it was a little bit lower and I guess that was coming from supply.
I'm not completely clear.
Could you tell us what happened there? Yes we come from a combination of supply which I referenced.
And that was just a couple of cents of share from the lower effective state tax rate.
The bigger driver year-on-year is going to come from the change in the business mix of the company.
The U.K.
effective tax rate for that segment is only 25% versus the other segment that run closer to 35% to 37%.
So just the change in the business mix is going to drive a lower effective tax rate.
Okay great.
And then secondly the coal burn.
You mentioned that some it is going to be pushed into next year.
How should we be thin about that from an earnings perspective? I mean in other words are you deferring higher cost coal into next year's burn so to speak? I would say Paul it's probably not meaningful or material from a coal burn and coal cost input side.
There is delaying or pushing out of coal into next year because we're not burning it this year.
I'll ask Dave DeCampli to provide anymore color on that.
If you would Dave? Yes Paul.
We're working very hard with our suppliers on a number of fronts deferrals altering the mix and consumption schedule for the balance of 2012 and making some adjustments.
So we're calling it not material at this point because we're relatively in good shape for 2012's inventories.
Okay great.
And then just finally the mark-to-market gain that you guys are going to be realizing into 2012.
That's going to be going into operating earnings is that correct? It's being excluded from operating earnings.
I guess it would've been a positive.
And how is it going to impact 2012 and does it go just in 2012? Does it go beyond that? No it'll go beyond that Paul.
Primarily rates relates to some correlation breakdown in our Eastern hedges.
From a FAS 133 perspective there's still very good hedges from an economic and risk perspective and so we'll match those periods as those contracts deliver and it's 2012 and 2013 primarily.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Kordell with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to focus on Susquehanna nuclear plant and how you think -- you have Unit 2 down for inspection and if you guys -- if you do see the cracks will you guys put blades in or will it be a de-rate of the unit? First we would absolutely replace the blades.
We would probably not do a de-rate but I'll ask Dave DeCampli to talk about the timing of the Unit 2 outage.
Yes Anthony.
The Unit 2 outage is scheduled later this month and we expect it to be somewhere around 20 days and that will be dependent upon what we find in the turbine.
We do have the blades available on standby to replace.
We've gotten rather efficient at the inspection process at this point.
So we're thinking it will be somewhere about 20 days depending on what we find once we get in the turbine.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Does the 20-day outage include if you had to replace the blades or 20 days of inspection and blade replacement will be incremental? Call the inspection process the first 10 days once the unit cools down and we gain access to it.
And then the replacement will be very dependent upon whether we have to pull the turbine out of its saddle or not.
And we'll have to do with the number of blades that we find cracked.
So on the short end it would be 20 days.
Your next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So first question just kind of bouncing off what Public Service said the other day are you guys anticipating higher Rose than the Susquehanna CapEx here just given what's happened of late first? I didn't really see any kind of material change too much.
No I'm sorry.
No we don't expect too much material change in the Susquehanna Roseland CapEx.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then secondly with regards to coal prices this year.
It seems as if it just went up a slight hair there $1 a ton.
Is that basically call it payments for taking delivery at a later point in time? It is.
It's primarily a timing issue yes.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And broadly speaking what are you seeing on the coal side in terms of the capacity factors for the balance of the year? You would think intuitively call it the gas switching would somewhat alleviate in the summer months.
Just kind of what kind of capacity factors are you seeing on your baseload units? Yes correct.
I think for the summer months we're going to see the coal units return to their traditional baseload operation.
I think in the fall of course it's all going to be dependent upon natural gas prices as well as coal prices.
But I would expect that we would see -- hopefully if you see normal weather you'd see more run time than we signed the first quarter.
But with the current natural gas price to coal price relationship I would expect that the capacity factors in the fall are going to be less than what we've historically seen.
But probably not as bad as the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Interesting.
And you guys have commented a little bit about O&amp;M hit this year.
Just curious to the extent to which you run your coal plants less.
How much of an O&amp;M benefit could we potentially see there? We heard some other companies discuss that.
Yes there is an O&amp;M benefit when you're off-line and there's also a margin benefit when we are highly hedged as we are.
We're essentially able to buy power cheaper than we can produce it at those coal facilities.
So there's a dual effect there if you will that did help us in the first quarter and could help us in the fall as well if we see similar conditions.
As far as an exact number on the O&amp;M.
I don't know that it would be that material that I could say that -- that would be measured in pennies probably not nickels and dimes.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then just the last question sort of a small detail.
The Montana contract rejection.
What kind of an impact are you guys seeing there just annually? Well of course it's all dependent on where we can place the power that otherwise was contracted for by southern Montana.
But having said that I would say it's again it's one of those things that's not extremely material.
And as we mentioned we're maintaining and are comfortable with the midpoint of our earnings.
Your next question comes from the line of Andy Bischof with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions for you this morning.
On the Midlands integration you mentioned you were trading above your initial synergy savings.
Are you willing to provide a new range or any clarity on that? I'll let Rick Klingensmith the President of our global operation answer that.
As you saw on the earnings release the news release that came out we have increased our forecast for this year up to $1.07 a share.
And that incorporates the additional benefits we're seeing from the integration of the Midlands operation.
And that's pretty much where we're heading out thus far for this year in our forecast.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I have a question to the capacity factors.
Your net gas plants you mentioned about 90% factor at that one plant.
Is this a dramatic case or is it safe to assume that these are kind of factors across all your plants? Well on the natural gas plant side? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I would say -- I mentioned also that Ironwood was out on an outage for some period of time.
That still saw about a 76% capacity factor during the quarter.
So I would expect with similar conditions that we would be at a 90% type capacity factor.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Paul when you gave those forward-looking share counts did that contemplate new equity or is that kind of as we sit today? Yes contemplated new equity.
So it would be impacted by the converts converting as well as some amount of the incremental equity for that on an annual basis as I mentioned.
Research Division</strong> And your CapEx forecast does that include generation in Kentucky gas-fired generation? Yes it does.
For both the combined cycle gas unit that can't run as well as the ELS power acquisition.
Research Division</strong> I guess a follow-up on Susquehanna.
You said minimal impact but is that as we sit today and if it does require a teardown and take the turbines out could it be more than immaterial? At this point I don't anticipate that no.
Could it be? Yes of course I can't say it couldn't be.
But based on what we found on Unit 1 and the fact that the Unit 2 blades are relatively new having been replaced last summer I wouldn't anticipate that we're going to get into a situation that's significantly different from Unit 1 where we essentially replaced one row of blades.
So that would be in my view kind of the expectation would be if we get in there and find some damage.
We'd be looking at replacing one row of blades.
Research Division</strong> Is this warranty work? The blades are under warranty and until we determine the final root cause we'll continue to work with the vendor and work those details out.
Research Division</strong> Are there any LDs on lost opportunity? No.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just might be first a couple of follow-ups.
The hedge and effectiveness gain that you pulled out as a one-timer.
When it does effectively come back isn't it effectively kind of a loss then? No.
Until the correlations would come back in they couldn't be redesignated but the mark-to-market would start from the beginning of the period where the effectiveness reoccurred if we elected to put them under 133.
Again which we're not necessarily going to do.
So in similar ways to where we've had smaller amounts of ineffectiveness in the past we've seen special items debits and credits up and down this was larger than maybe some of those historical movements have been and that's why we called it out for you so you understood what was happening.
It would match...
Research Division</strong> Well just my thought is that if you have a favorable hedge like this and you ended up for accounting having to book the benefit upfront when we see the hedge flow-through in '12 and '13 is the hedge effectively kind of gone? Could you book that benefit upfront? Well I mean ultimately all these contracts will go to delivery.
We fully expect them to and we'll settle at the contracted prices so the intervening mark-to-market up and down which would normally be in the balance sheet only that hits the P&amp;L we've carved it out.
So you won't see the loss in the future either if you will in the same way that the benefit has been carved out so would the movement back to contracted price.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
So that might also get booked as one-time in these next 2 years? Or...
I would expect the mark-to-market on these to continue through contract delivery on these contracts.
Correct.
It's a good question and just to be clear we don't expected it to from an ongoing earnings perspective have any impact on our business plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Secondly what are you seeing in your region regarding basis both in the quarter but also kind of forward? Are you still kind of at flat basis to peak in West or any update there? Steve we saw in the first quarter about a negative $2 basis.
Obviously there's the weather and natural gas prices and West Hub prices had a significant impact on that number.
I guess the drivers that I have mentioned on previous calls that move the basis around natural gas prices transmission outages new lines coming in et cetera all are still in play.
And there is an awful lot of transmission work being done in the region throughout the region.
So I think our expectation is to still see some pressure on basis in the upcoming months and through the rest of this year.
We'll have to reassess after the summer where we think basis is going to travel but for now we think that negative $2 is what delivered in the first quarter and it's going to continue to have some pressure.
Now the good news Steve is that we've had some very effective hedges in place that have helped offset that for us.
So from a impact to PPL it was really neutral during the quarter even though -- had we been unhedged it would have been a negative $2.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just finally a follow-up on coal.
Just how do your -- maybe a little more color on where your coal inventories stand in the various regions.
Sure.
I mean like a lot of folks we have built up quite a bit of inventory but we still have room to go at our stations so it's not a pressing issue for us at this moment and many of our units are back online as we speak.
So we're going to be bringing the coal power probably down again a little bit.
But we've been pretty effective at I think deferring some deliveries.
We worked very closely with our coal suppliers to really manage the inventories during this time.
And then I think in the West coal strip it's a mine mouth plant so we don't have the same issues out there in terms of inventory as we do in the East.
Your next question comes from the line of Raymond Leung with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I think Paul mentioned that proceeds from the converts that $2 billion and you also mentioned about de-leveraging supply.
Can you sort of give us some context of what you think is a right leverage metrics for supply? And then also staying on supply.
As you sort of look at your business obviously you transformed into more regulated.
How should we think about longer-term degeneration business as part of the overall family? Okay let me tackle the credit one and Bill can comment on the more strategic perspective of generation.
From a credit perspective as I indicated we've got $1.15 billion that's converting in mid-'13 we've got $950 million converting in April of '14 related to the equity converts that we did as part of both deals.
Effectively what will happen is that equity happens at core if you will and will get injected into supply allowing supply to de-lever.
The 2 rating agencies -- well I'll talk about the 3 but S&amp;P -- I'll talk about 2 in the 3.
S&amp;P looks at PPL on a consolidated credit basis and so they look at consolidated FFO and consolidated debt.
That movement down to supply would be effectively inconsequential to them which is effectively taking debt that's at Supply and moving it up the core.
And in all this we're trying to maintain investment grade credit ratings obviously for Supply which enables us to get the liquidity at reasonable prices to do the hedging.
For Moody's they [indiscernible] for us on an entity by entity basis and I think -- I won't speak for them but if we can maintain 20%-ish FFO at the debt metrics I think we can maintain investment grade.
We'd like to be more robust and I think by the time we get out a couple of years we'll see some of the fundamental benefits that Bill talked about in terms of power prices in terms of tighter capacity margins and that will clearly provide opportunity for the fleet.
So on a year by year basis you could can look at things and they may look a little tight but I think you can put it in a reasonable enough time horizon and with the amount of incremental small equity needs that I talked about year-on-year we can manage through this.
On your question on the competitive generation fleet.
As I think about it scale we have that; the mix of generation is very good; we're in a very good market here in PJM; very visible prices; and of course a very good capacity market.
And you have to keep in mind even if we were not looking at the competitive generation we still have 8 000 megawatts over 8 000 regulated generation in Kentucky.
So we have a sizable fleet with around 20 000 megawatts.
So we do have the scale in good markets.
And I think as Paul mentioned earlier we have the ability to weather the down cycles now in the commodity cycle because of the robustness of the Regulated businesses.
So overall I feel like it's a fit for the company continues to be a fit for the company and a potential upside as we go into the future.
And just a final note from an environmental perspective I think you're aware that on a competitive fleet side we're very well equipped to deal with the MATS and the CSAPR.
So we're not looking at any major new incremental investments on the environmental side.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Just one follow-up question for Paul.
Would you look at -- if you were to reduce debt at Supply would it be more just as they mature or would you do something a little more proactively there? We'd probably look as things mature and as we're closing out the construction programs in the next 12 months or so around both Rainbow and Holtwood so that growth CapEx if you will kind of goes away.
And our teams are looking very hard.
I think we've talked about in the past the cutting of roughly over the 5-year plan around $500 million of CapEx from that segment.
We're continuing as power prices have come down to continue to look at O&amp;M and CapEx there to try to help alleviate some of the stress as well.
The markets aren't viewing the value of the plants quite as highly and we'll have CapEx in line to make sure that they're available but prudently available if these challenging markets -- as we make our way through that market cycle.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Chin with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Could you just walk through the rationale on your earlier comment about filing for the DSIC sometime in '13 and I'm looking at the forward test your mechanism a little bit at some point in the future beyond that.
Why split those up as opposed to doing it together? Well I think we've got the rate case we just filed.
We would expect the outcome January 1 rates to be in effect January 1.
So I think we have to balance the company's needs with customer reaction to rate cases just one after another after another.
So I think we have to keep that in mind and in consideration.
Greg I don't know if you have any other comments you want to make other than -- maybe you can comment on the DSIC and how we would approach the DSIC.
Yes.
So to supplement those comments so the rate case that we're filing or that we filed in March will become effective January 1 and that's based on our 2012 capital and O&amp;M projection.
So the DSIC the reason why we're filing the DSIC next year is so that we can get timely recovery of ongoing distribution investment for '13 and beyond.
So that's the rationale.
And then should we need another base rate increase in the future year we'd look to most likely utilize the fully future test year as the way to do that.
Yes.
Remember Brian under the new law if you will entities can't file for the DSIC until 1/1/13 and they need to have an adjudicated ROE to be able to make that filing.
So the general rate case that we filed this year gets that piece of it done and then from a timing perspective we can file beginning 1/1/13 and we'd be looking to do that.
And I think Brian what we would do is -- we'll look at -- when we get into next year we'll look at the outcome from the current rate case.
We'll look at the impact that the DSIC have on a timely recovery of our CapEx and where we project our ROE and then we'll make a decision at that time.
So I'm not ruling out the possibility that we might not file another one but we just have to be mindful of the impact on customers and so forth.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then one other question.
Roughly ballpark hedging on '14.
Where is the company at? Sure we're in the same -- essentially the same position we were at year end -- or on the year end call about 10% to 20% hedged for 2014.
Research Division</strong> If the view is that gas may decouple from power because of retirements does it make sense to use forward gas sales to maintain your heat rate upside as opposed to just throwing naked long on power? Are there any considerations on that front? Yes there are some considerations of that front.
We have done some of that in the past and we'll continue to look at that as an opportunity.
Your next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan with Visium Asset Management.
Can you just talk to us a little bit regarding the U.K.
regulatory process in terms of the fast track and could you just give us a bit of a timeline? I'm going to ask Rick Klingensmith to take that one.
Regarding the regulatory process in the U.K.
the real process that Ofgem has established is in full speed ahead with the transmission and the gas distribution and gas transmission sectors.
For the electricity distribution sector we're in the very early stages and those stages are really around policy development right now stakeholder engagement.
We will see a strategy document and consultation likely issued in the fall issued by Ofgem and then a decision documented perhaps the first quarter of 2013.
We will start preparing our business plans for submittal in the May June '13 timeframe and then Ofgem will decide further in late '13 as to do any of that electric distribution business plans that have been submitted.
Will they be eligible? Are they complete and robust enough to be fast tracked through the process? And you'll see some publications of that probably in late '13 and a final decision on electricity distribution fast tracks in early '14.
And again our rates will be effective in 1st of April 2015.
You have seen just recently Ofgem and the transmission rate case price control reviews they have fast tracked 2 of the Scottish transmission companies.
And so we view that very positively and that the process is working.
It allows those business plans to move forward and save about a year in the regulatory cycle for the price control review.
Well I think that wraps up the call for today.
Really appreciate everyone dialing in and look forward to talking to you on the next quarterly call.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Melissa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the PPL Corporation Second Quarter Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Mr.
Joe Bergstein Vice President Director of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining PPL conference call on second quarter results and our general business outlook.
We are providing slides of this presentation on our website at www.pplweb.com.
Any statements made in this presentation about future operating results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
A discussion of factors that could cause actual results or events to vary is contained in the appendix of this presentation and in the company’s SEC filings.
At this time I’d like to turn the call over to Bill Spence PPL’s Chairman President and CEO.
Thanks Joe and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation in this morning’s call.
I’m joined on the call this morning by Paul Farr PPL’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Also joining us for the Q&amp;A session are the Presidents of all business segments; Vic Staffieri President and CEO of LG&amp;EKU our Kentucky Regulated business; Rick Klingensmith President of PPL Global who has responsibility for UK regulated operations and our Energy Services businesses; Greg Dudkin President of PPL Electric Utilities our Pennsylvania Regulated segment; and Dave DeCampli President of our competitive market Supply segment.
To get started today I have an overview of our second quarter results and a few operational highlights then Paul will provide more details on our segment performance in the quarter and following his remarks we will turn to your questions.
Today we announced the second quarter reported earnings of $0.46 per share up from $0.35 in the same quarter a year ago.
Earnings from ongoing operations for the quarter were $0.51 per share compared with $0.45 per share in the same period last year.
For the first six months of the year our reported earnings were $1.39 per share up from $1.13 per share in the first six months of 2011.
Ongoing earnings were $1.21 a share for the first half of the year versus $1.26 per share in the same period a year ago.
Our second quarter earnings from ongoing operations include $0.02 per share dilution from the common stock issued and April 2011 financed acquisition of the Midlands utilizes in the UK.
For the first six months dilution amounted to $0.13 per share.
Strong results from our UK operations were a major drag from the improvement in both ongoing and reported earnings in the second quarter.
Strong earnings from the UK operations and the ability of our supply group to effectively manage unplanned outage challenges at our Susquehanna nuclear plant has put us solidly on course to achieve our 2012 earnings forecast.
We are reaffirming our forecast of $2.15 to $2.45 per share in earnings from ongoing operations.
Before we join for a more detailed discussion of our financial results I’ll provide a brief operational overview for the quarter.
As I mentioned on previous call our management team in the UK has dramatically improved the customer performance of our Midlands utility.
I’m pleased to tell you that we recently – that all four of our distribution companies have now been ordered the Customer Service Excellence Standard the highest customer service honor in the UK.
This is the first time for our Midlands companies and the 20<sup>th</sup> year for our legacy South West [and South Wales] to receive the award.
As we continue to see improved performance related to the number and duration of outages and regulatory metrics.
This performance improvement is detailed to you in the appendix.
Turning to the domestic operations PPL’s electric delivery operation in Pennsylvania once again has ranked highest among large electric utilities in the Eastern United States for residential customer satisfaction in a survey conducted by J.D.
Power and Associates.
The award is the company’s 18<sup>th</sup> overall since J.D.
Power and Associates began studying customer satisfaction among electric utilities.
Kentucky Utilities and Louisville Gas and Electric were part of the J.D.
Power report on midsize utilities in the Midwest Region and also had strong customer satisfaction standards.
So also there is some good news in the Susquehanna nuclear plant when inspections concluded with no indications of cracking were found on Unit 2’s turbine blades at the facility.
We returned to units of service on June 15 after the inspection analysis of this plant by discovery of small cracks on some Unit 1 blades.
Unit 1 in Susquehanna returned to service on June 7 after refueling outage and has concluded replacement of a small number of turbine blades that did not cracked.
We’ve installed additional diagnostic equipments on both turbines to validate suspected causes that are early under review and we are conducting additional inspection next year on Unit 1.
The utilities in Kentucky have each requested rate increases to be effective in January 2013.
Louisville Gas and Electric has requested a $62.1 million increase in electric rates and a $17.2 million increase in natural gas rates.
Kentucky Utilities has requested an $82.4 million increase in electric rates.
The requested ROE in each case is 11%.
New rates are expected to take effect January 2013.
In Pennsylvania consideration of PPL Electric Utilities rate increase request is continuing.
An administrative law judge appointed by the State Public Utility Commission has helped public input hearings on the company’s $104 million increase request.
Evidentiary hearings are being held this week and we expect some decision by December.
Also on the operational front it’s worth noting that PPL’s power plants and electric delivery systems at Pennsylvania and Kentucky have performed very well during the prolonged heat spells over the last couple of months.
Generally our power plants were invariably an important part for generation and our transportation and distribution systems handled the stress by demand very well.
We out gained some significant challenges in the second quarter across all four segments.
Our Supply business continues to do a pretty good job in managing through challenging commodity markets.
We continue to be optimistic that we’ll see some modest increase in wholesale energy prices by 2013.
Finally I’d like to update you on a couple of initiatives we continue to refine internally.
As you are aware we have talked about the need to raise equity over the next 12 years to fund the very robust capital plan at all of the regulated utilities.
We are looking very closely at rates significantly reduced and potentially eliminate equity needs beyond normal debt issuances and share issued for management comp.
We will escalate planning process now and this is a key focus.
We will provide you with specific details at an appropriate time but we believe this objective is very realistic based on our preliminary planning.
Additionally the Supply segment continues to refine its plans on how to protect the release if power markets decline further.
The directive is to develop plans to maintain positive earnings in the Supply segment should profits worsen compared to (inaudible).
I want to be clear although that we do not believe this will happen but performing this analysis is informative and should be in support (inaudible).
I’m confident both of these initiatives will address some of your concerns and we will certainly provide further detail as our plans are firmed up.
In conclusion we are very pleased with our upgrade.
The Midlands acquisition continues to prove to be highly successful.
The Supply segment continues to perform very well and managed to reach challenges and our domestic Regulated segments are progressing through the rate fees.
We have solid financial plans in place that stress value through a variety of economic conditions and we are optimistic about the future prospects.
I look forward to your questions following Paul’s comments.
With that I will turn it over to Paul.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone.
Let’s move to Slide 7 to review our second quarter financial results.
PPL’s second quarter earnings from ongoing operations were higher than last year primarily driven by strong operating results from the UK including a full quarter of earnings from the Midlands businesses versus two months of results that were included in our second quarter last year.
This positive drive was partially offset by lower earnings in the Supply segment as a result of flat energy margins and higher O&amp;M compared to a year ago.
Let’s turn to the Kentucky Regulated segment earnings drivers on Slide 8.
Our Kentucky Regulated segment earned $0.07 per share in second quarter $0.01 increase over last year.
This increase was primarily driven by higher sales volumes resulting from newer (inaudible) compared to the year ago.
Moving now to Slide 9 our UK Regulated segment earned $0.31 per share in the second quarter a $0.10 increase over last year.
This increase was due to the operating results of the Midlands utilities that included an additional month of operations as well as performance improvements.
Higher delivery revenue at WPD Southwest and South Wales is primarily driven by higher net prices and lower financing costs.
These positive earnings drivers were partially offset by higher O&amp;M including higher pension expense less favorable currency exchange rates and dilution of $0.01 per share.
Turning to our Pennsylvania Regulated segment on Slide 10 this segment earned $0.05 per share in the quarter $0.01 decrease compared to last year.
This decrease was primarily due to higher O&amp;M as a result of higher payroll related expenses and higher legislation management costs.
Moving now to Slide 11 our Supply segment earned $0.03 per share in the second quarter a decrease of $0.04 compared to last year.
This decrease was driven by the net result of lower West energy margins primarily as a result of the termination of a seven-month (inaudible) contract in connection with that company’s bankruptcy.
Higher Eastern Energy margins driven by higher nuclear generation partially offset by lower baseload energy and capacity prices higher O&amp;M primarily at the Susquehanna nuclear station higher depreciation and dilution of $0.01 per share.
With that I will turn the call back to Bill for the Q&amp;A period.
Thank you Paul and with that operator we’re ready to open the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Paul Patterson from Glenrock.
Your line is now open.
Hi guys can you hear me.
We can.
Good morning Paul.
Good morning.
Couple of things.
First the National Grid got some rulings from Ofgem and they seem somewhat disappointed with them.
I was just wondering if you could sort of compare and contrast their situation compared to yours? Sure Paul.
And that was the preliminary leave on their plan that was filed with Ofgem but Rick Klingensmith can get into the details for you.
Good morning Paul.
As a way of background in the Regulated businesses in the UK the electricity transmission the gas transmission and the gas distribution are undergoing a price controlled review under what Ofgem has called to (inaudible) process.
And as part of the real process there was a set of initial proposals that you referred to that was just published by Ofgem that sets forth.
Ofgem’s view of strong order and the recurrence required for those Regulated businesses.
They will go through the process through the rest of this year with some final proposals that will be published in the November and December timeframe.
As you commented the grid did come out with a service disappointment and it asked for additional capital to be spent in their [networks] as well as they have requested the higher (inaudible) initial proposals that came out of Ofgem what we see are they are really coming in line with what we are currently seeing for electricity distribution price control review that we are currently operating in.
The cost effective returns the weighted average cost of capital the efficiencies as noted are right in line with where we are today with electricity distribution.
So we aren’t surprised by the result that’s what we had expected.
Okay great.
And then with respect to the expected generation it seems like that’s come down a bit and it looks like you guys have a little bit more coal hedged than you actually have for expected generation.
Could you comment on how that’s going to work both sort of practically and financially with respect to how you are going to deal with that excess coal I guess is what it looks like? Yeah.
Sure Paul.
You are correct on the both counts and I’ll ask Dave DeCampli to provide some more color on that.
Sure Paul.
Our generation baseload forecast it is down yes.
However our intermediate and peaking forecast is up partially offsetting that.
And as we would always do we will buy from the markets while our costs to generate to make up any differences there.
The bottom line on generation it’s about neutral plus and on the coal management side you will see on Slide 21 I believe we are over hedged in coal for 2012.
We are managing that primarily just through inventory and for 2013 we’re continuing to work with our suppliers on a number of arrangements either through differing or renegotiating or buying out contracts.
So 2013 still has a little bit of work to do but 2012 we will manage primarily through inventory managing.
Okay.
Then financially how should we think about how that will impact I guess EPS in 2013 I mean you sort of managing these contracts and what have you given what’s happened with the coal? Yes Paul this is Paul Farr.
It depends upon the mechanics that we ultimately used to get rid out of the excess position.
To the extent that it’s a contract buyout you would see a chart coming through the P&amp;L related to that.
To the extent that we differ it’s simply a deferral and shows up in future periods in the pile cost and the compensatory management.
Again it just blends into the pile and we would absorb that.
As soon as we get through 2013 we do have a capability to absorb that in ‘14 and beyond.
So it’s just simply a matter in terms of the financial impact what mechanical way we used to get out of that excess position.
And I think Paul at this point we believe that it will be relatively immaterial to 2013.
Okay great.
And then just finally Act 129 there has been some activity at the Pennsylvania PUC and I was wondering if you could comment on that? Also there was I guess one demand response provider is indicating that with respect to the curtailments that happened in the third quarter that has lowered prices in some of the Pennsylvania areas in the real-time markets and just how we should think about the impact of demand response Act 129 on the wholesale market outlook for you guys? Sure.
I would say overall Act 129 is coming into play pretty much as we would have expected it.
It has prompted obviously a lot more conservation and a lot of – plus peak demand than you otherwise get.
And certainly the PJM demand response program has contributed to that in addition to Act 129.
So I think overall it’s not a surprise necessarily and I think power prices have in real-time reflected the implementation of some of those demand response programs in addition to some of the other energy efficiency programs in the State of Pennsylvania.
So overall I would say no major surprises from our perspective.
Okay.
So with the changes at the PUC or the activity that’s happened there recently should we expect any change to any of these activities going forward or does it serve to wait and see? Do you know what I’m saying this reiteration of the 129? Let me ask Greg Dudkin President of our Electric Utilities for Pennsylvania there to comment on that.
Yes.
Paul so at the end of last week the Public Utility Commission came out with their curriculum on how well to handle Act 129 beyond the year 2013.
And there really weren’t any surprises.
So it’s – we have an idea of the expected reductions that they are looking for and we will be putting into our plans in order to meet those objectives.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Justin McCann from S&amp;P Capital IQ.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Congratulations on a strong quarter.
The UK has obviously made enormous contribution to your performance this year and you’re expected to account for roughly 45% of consolidated earnings for the full year up from the nearly 32% in 2011.
I would like to know what is the expected effective tax rate for both the UK and the consolidated company for this year and given the lower tax rates for the UK if we assume a higher proportion of free tax earnings from the UK in 2013 do you believe it could account for more than 50% of net income in 2013? Okay this is Paul.
I will really try to bite those off in pieces.
The effective rate on the UK segment earnings is roughly 22% 23%.
On a consolidated basis blending in the higher domestic and federal and state rates we get close to 30%.
We’re very heavily hedged for 2013 both power as well as our fuel.
We are very heavily hedged from an earnings translation perspective on UK earnings at this point as well.
I would not see us crossing the 50% threshold at all for 2013.
As we execute on the rate base growth plans which are a little robust in the domestic utilities than they are in the UK business these are further offset and again as Bill mentioned earlier we’re into rate cases with both domestic utilities perhaps to try to get those utilities back for utilities back towards more accessible levels of earned R&amp;D.
So there’s a lot to go out of dynamics that will also help call it a rate base as we go through plans.
Okay.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc.
Your lines is now open.
Good morning.
How are you? Good morning Paul.
Trailing 12-year your $2.68 can you kind of give a profile of what the back half of the year is going to look like? Sorry say it again Paul? On a trailing 12-month basis you’ve earned $2.68.
Can you just kind of reconcile that against your guidance and your expectations for the second half of ‘12? Yeah let me – maybe come at it – and I don’t really think of things usually from a 12-month trailing perspective.
So it’s the dynamic that we’ve been talking about the lower commodity interest from the hedge perspective because we are moving through size.
The hedges that we have got in place are at lower levels than we have hedged the prior 12 months when they were – they were a little robust.
The regulated utilities are under earning but we are in for rate cases on both of those domestically.
WPD is executing very strongly against the plan that we have when we acquired utilities.
So that’s fairly steady as she goes.
Then I would add share dilution is a factor.
Share dilution is a factor roughly at $0.13 for this year.
So those are probably the biggest drivers year-on-year.
Haven’t we already know the share dilutions? Just a couple of cents but just (inaudible) less but yes.
What’s the seasonality in the UK? Because I think you are looking for about $1 for the full year and you are already well above $0.60? Yeah.
As we outlined in the release it’s closer to $1.07.
There is some seasonality to the earnings.
There is some planned spend towards the back half of the year that’s a bit higher than the second half of the year and we do have in the forecast an expectation for a tax disclosure to hit the P&amp;L that may or may not transpire.
But that’s in that $1.07 that remains that we have guided in the press release.
Okay.
And then back to Paul Patterson’s question your base load is down 3.4 million megawatt hours but your peaking is up 1.7 million megawatt hours how should we think about that from a – what the net-net of that is on earnings? Well I think overall with the strong hedge position we have in 2013 even with those levels of hedge generation and the upward projections that we have obviously some of that means that we’re going to be buying generation from the market at a lower price than we can produce it for.
So that has a net positive effect.
So overall I don’t really see any material change to the overall earnings picture for 2013 compared to what it was previously.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You are welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith from UBS.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
Can you hear me? We can Julian.
Good morning.
Yes.
Good morning.
Excellent.
With regards to Kentucky just wanted to get an updated thought process after the decision on the peaker here.
What about new rate base build and also how does that play into timing of any potential rate cases as we think about the outer years here and beginning them to service? Sure.
I’ll ask Vic Staffieri to comment on that.
Yes we did turn down the deal for the peakers based upon the first quarter which ranks consistent with how the Commission will – the Kentucky Commission wanted to operate the facility.
So what we will be doing is we will probably be billing out an RFP later this year and we’ll combine it with looking at self-builds and some other plants and purchases going out to address what the peaker is going to cost us in 2017.
It maybe that will be build another power plant but it will be until the 2017 time.
Okay.
So in terms of rate case schedules as it stands right now is it still kind of every couple of years? Is that a good status quo? Yes.
All right great.
Remember the bulk of our capital spend is coming in through the environmental costs recovery mechanism rather than to the general rate cases.
Right absolutely.
And then maybe a second question here on basis.
Basis was perhaps a little weaker and then you guys had talked about previously in the second quarter.
What is your latest expectation on a go forward basis? Is it still that $1 megawatt hour off of West hub? We have for the year-to-date it’s been really relatively flat for us with the hedges that we had put in place.
I believe we are just slightly positive on basis for the year-to-date.
And as we look at the year end and what we expect for the year we would expect again with the hedges we have in place to come out near neutral near zero maybe slightly positive or negative but not anything in either direction at this rate then.
So I think its playing out as we expected it – as we articulated at the beginning of the year expect them to basically be flat to slightly negative through West hub.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Arnold from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning Jonathan.
Inc.</strong>  My question relates just to the Midlands and the UK in general and how you are tracking versus the original guidance waterfall from Q4? You have $0.28 and it looks like you’ve got $0.34 under the bridge in the first half from Midlands but then revenues you were $0.14 for the year and they were up $0.04 and then the other was expected to be kind of $0.13 negative and it was only negative $0.02.
Can you just us a bit more of a sense of where you are ahead and behind plan in aggregate and what exactly is driving the Midlands piece?  Sure.
I’ll ask Rick to respond.
Jonathan thank you.
On the $0.28 that we had forecasted at the beginning of the year that was also on a different share count than the $0.34 and so we kind of take the $0.34 of actual performance on a year-to-date basis kind of reset that put it on a cost on shares that’s $0.06 differences really only about $0.03.
So it’s happened over on the Midlands activities that the additional four months coming in at about that area we have projected but then we see some out flowings of about $0.01 a share as a result of the actions and the efficiencies that we’ve been able to replace in the full six months of this year.
Inc.</strong>  Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Leslie Rich from JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</strong>  Thank you.
I wondered if you could repeat your comments about equity issuance.
Bill I think you said something about you were making some adjustments to the plan therefore equity issuance may not be necessary in the magnitude that you had originally forecast.
I wondered if you could just walk through that for 2012 through 2014 and understanding that you have converts maturing obviously.
Yeah a good point.
Yeah with the forward sale we have not only the converts but the forward sale on the equity that we did this year or coming into play next year.
But yeah my comment was that based on some preliminary planning that we’ve done and knowing that this has been a concern to many investors on the equity raise and the level and what it would be we’re looking at every way we can to reduce that equity need down to basically just Europe and the needs for management comp.
So that would be our objective I believe the group of management comp together we’ve got $100 million.
So we previously indicated we’d up $350 million of equity of these so Europe we got $250 million reduction net to what we previously expected.
Inc.</strong>  And you’re doing that through CapEx cuts or O&amp;M or how are you managing that? It would be a combination of it’d be a number of a variety of things but certainly our CapEx and O&amp;M will be a component yes.
Inc.</strong>  Okay thank you.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Bischof from Morningstar.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
UK regulated segments are doing very well for you; I was hoping if you could breakup the Midlands’ additional month and how that attributed to your quarter? Well for the quarter as you saw in Paul’s remarks that we were a positive $0.10 a share for this quarter due to the Midlands.
Of that $0.10 $0.08 was due to the extra month and $0.02 was due to accruals.
Okay thank you.
You’re welcome.
That’s all I had.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Your Line is now open.
Just want to follow up from Leslie Rich’s question on cost reductions or cost management.
Can you give us just some insight when you look at your CapEx slide for the little component for supply it’s like $600 million or $700 million a year what do you view as just maintenance CapEx at the supply business for the existing facilities and facilities that will be online by the end of this year? Well it’s a very good question and I think certainly in our Supply business we are looking very aggressively at cutting O&amp;M and capital in light of the low power prices.
What is being the maintenance CapEx that kind of depends on really how you expect the units to perform and so for example with the coal plants if we’re expecting them to be just past a lot more – and less for level than previously that means the maintenance CapEx that we’ve been submitting is going to go down.
So I think that we’re still early in our planning process so I can’t give you specific plant-by-plant or even group-by-group numbers at this point.
What I can say is that we’re vertically optimistic where we can make some meaningful measures and savings on CapEx as well as on the O&amp;M side.
Got it.
One other thing when the Midlands acquisition occurred you outlined potential for synergy savings.
Can you just give an update on where that’s tracking meaning how you are versus the original plan when you made the UK transaction and whether you see upside or downside to synergy savings there? As we look at the results of the UK regulated segment in both forecasts that we have established at the beginning of the year as well as $1.7 that you will see here you’ll notice that that’s tracking much at the high end of the synergy forecasts that we had provided back in the April of last year when we were making the acquisition.
So we’ve been able to significantly outperform through cash savings cost savings across the enterprise in outsource reducing outsourcing contrasts reducing labor costs improved financing.
So any area that we’ve been able to affect has been very positive and $1.7 that we’re forecasting for the year is at the high end of that range.
And Mike I’d like to say that remember that headcount reduction ended up being at very high end of the range of numbers that we provided and we also indicated back in April that those numbers didn’t include bonus revenues which we’re kicking off around $30 million.
This year we’ve said that that would at least double to $60 million next year.
So the out performance is coming both on the cost side and the revenue side.
Meaning though when do you get confirmation about the year-over-year increase and the bonus revenues.
I know it’s like an April start each year but when does that process kick in where you get certainty around that? Yeah.
Our license modifications that provide certainty on our actual results for the year ending March would likely be in the October November timeframe.
So we are anticipating that on the third quarter of earnings release that we’d be able to provide an exact number that we are able to achieve.
But as Paul mentioned we were expecting to double this year’s results of [$20 million].
Got it okay.
Thanks and congrats on a good quarter.
Thanks Michael.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Russo from Ladenburg your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Brian.
Could you maybe just discuss the strategy of keeping Montana with the Supply contracts that are rolling off in early to mid-2014? Sure.
I’ll ask Dave DeCampli to comment on that.
Are you specifically referring to the Southern Montana contracts that recently were rejected in the bankruptcy quarter or it’s another specific contract you were referring to in 2014?  The 200 plus megawatts of both contracts roll off that you have with NorthWestern Energy?  On NorthWestern okay.
I think on that front we continue to look for alternative markets for that close to that I’m sure if NorthWestern will be one of those potential customers.
But in addition there are many as you know relative costs in that region and we just hope that to continue as well the retail CapEx where some were finders and some of the other world class end users out in Montana.
Okay and would the asset sales also be considered to support the strategy of less ongoing equity needs? In the past we have not commented on specific asset sales so I don’t really want to start that process at this point and as I mentioned I think earlier certainly O&amp;M and capital savings will be a big piece of our ability to hopefully reduce that equity need.
Okay understood.
And then lastly just can you add some color on the hedges the foreign exchange currency hedges you have with the British pound in ‘12 and maybe ‘13? Sure.
Yeah we are basically north of 90% hedged 90% to 95% hedged for 2012 and 80% to 85% hedged for 2013.
Okay and at what price? At level slightly above the $1.57 that we had communicated over the last year or so so slightly better than those numbers.
Okay thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman from Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
A very warm good morning.
Good morning.
Bill just on your comments early on actions that you might take at the Supply business I think you mentioned that you’re going to be doing things to make sure you can if prices fall from where they are to cut costs or other actions to make sure that the business stays positive.
Is that the message? That’s exactly the message Steve and we don’t plans in place already and some other analysis that we’re actively working on to make sure we meet that objectives.
As I also commented while we don’t expect that to happen we also obviously cannot predict where the power cuts are going to be in 2014 and ‘15 so we want to be well prepared in advance should our markets not recover as we expect them to but we want to be prepared.
Just to clarify as I was thinking about your comments in another way based on the current forwards the business is earnings positive in ‘14 ‘15? Yes.
Okay.
Great thank you.
(Inaudible).
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Chin from Citigroup.
Your line is now open.
Hi Bill.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just going back to the question on the equity issuance reduction if we walked away from the call with an assumption of 50-50 O&amp;M cuts versus CapEx cuts did you say that that’s a reasonable assumption to make? I can’t really give you a precise breakdown of how much that would be at this point as I indicated in my opening remarks.
We are still in the preliminary stages of our planning though.
We do believe it’s a realistic objective to cut $250 million out of the equity raise and then just leaving that in the management comp.
So I think – exactly where it’s going to come from which business line we are still in that process of determining that but again I think based on the preliminary numbers we think that it’s very achievable.
And Brian – hi this is Paul.
One other think I’d mention is it’s on the soft side but the strong performance in the UK could also cause us to be able to extract higher dividend levels from there which should contribute to that in and of itself.
And so it’s costs and that out we’re looking to UK (inaudible).
Understood understood.
And then lastly on ‘14 just any sort of rough commentary on hedging levels for ‘14.
I know you don’t put it in those performance slides but any color there would be great.
Sure on the last call we indicated that for 2014 we’re at 10% to 20% hedged.
We’re now in the 20% to 30% hedged range would be more towards in the 30% and the 20% and we’ve obviously taken the opportunity with some of the strength that we’ve seen here at rates that we’re hedging to more of these efforts.
So we’ve made some progress during the quarter and obviously we’d be reporting out on this again in the next earnings call.
Great.
Much appreciated.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon from ISI Group.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</strong> Thanks.
Sorry to beat the dead horse here guys but when we think about where the capital reductions are going to come from obviously they can come from four places they come from the Supply business they can come from UK they can come from two regional utilities here in the U.S.
So are we looking at the potential for reduced capital spending here in the U.S.
at the regional utilities as part of this CapEx reduction or is it mainly coming from Supply or is it mainly coming from the UK or is it a mix of all of them? It’s certainly a mix and I would said on the domestic front certainly both utilities would be included in that potential and I think as we look at it while it has the potential to reduce the rate base growth in utilities by cutting back saving on CapEx in the domestic utilities.
On the flipside of it we think it’s going to be earnings accretive and certainly the short-term view of that even though if they cut back the rate base a bit they’re obviously going to have benefit in the west region.
So we think that that is going to be positive and it would as we mentioned a variety of assets to go off over those declines and it’s combination of UK as come in all of increased dividends our factories do that… Inc.</strong> Great thank you.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Raymond Leung from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Hey guys in terms of your cash flow you are showing a pretty large negative number this year and that’s before dividends.
Can you just refresh our memory on financing plans for the year and I’ll start with that first? Thank you.
Okay.
In terms of the – on the equity front again we did the proper transaction that will settle early next year at the back end of Q1.
That really allows us to drift into the management comp next year the equity side of things.
But balance of the funding we’ve done and issuance earlier this year in the UK we got an issuance that we completed mostly recently domestically at around $400 million.
Other than a few hundred million that we’ve got (inaudible) probably that’s around about the financing for the year.
Don’t stick with the plan.
Okay and if you think about ‘13 the equity units are supposed to bring in about $1.1 billion but does that sort of cover you in terms of external financing needs for ‘13? It does relatively significantly.
We’ve got around $700 million coming due at Supply which will effectively deplete or pay that off $1.150 billion of proceeds.
There is financing expected in the UK next year there is financing expected of around 30 million pound there is financing in Kentucky as it grows its balance sheet and really starts to execute on the construction program for ETR spending and it’s relatively modest at electric utilities.
I think we are in a good shape for a year and a half there.
Okay.
And can you just help us out on what the – you said you are under-earning at the utilities.
What the returns on equities are at the Kentucky utilities in Pennsylvania? Sure.
Rick do you want to start on the Kentucky side?  Yeah I would for 2012 it will amount to 8% or so that’s why we are in the rate case.
And Greg?  In Pennsylvania we filed our – in my testimony we identified we expect we will have mid-6% at the end of the year.
Wonderful.
Great thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Crowdell from Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</strong>  Hey good morning.
I was trying to make sure I understand it correctly where the equity used to be because I must have a horrible phone connection it’s just tough to hear.
The converts still occur but you think your equity needs to lighten up by I think roughly maybe $200 million what type of share count should we be modeling for say 2014? I think you’ve given it before or if you’re able to 2015 when take in your lesser equity needs? In 2014 we are around 675 billion shares.
So if you take 200 million off that at some (inaudible) share price and that will get you at a levels versus where that assumption really lies.
Inc.</strong>  Okay I just want to clarify I think the comments to Greg’s question that although you cut back on CapEx the mix of the utilities in domestic but you’re still confident that it’s accretive although you’re going to have the less rate base earn on it is that accurate? Yes.
It is.
I wouldn’t say the levels that we would be talking about for the domestic utilities are huge in size.
Obviously Rick talked about earlier the fact that the Bluegrass plant and associated transmission and some other spend on consultancy (inaudible) that doesn’t really come back in and plan until 2017 when at that point in time the ETR sales is done ECGT is constructed and those utilities are generating significant cash flow instead of absorbing cash internally.
So yeah there is some modest decreases that we’ll be looking at for select facilities so they wouldn’t be outside and causing dramatic reductions in the regulated growth profile.
Inc.</strong>  Great.
Thanks for the clarification.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan from Visium.
Your line is now open.
Congratulations just wanted to get a sense as you look out the next two or three years and I guess you’re trying to plan through the process which year in your mind is the trough year in the landscape can I ask?  We don’t Ashar have guidance and I think the way that people are modeling things as we look at sell side research and people look at mostly in ‘15 you can see where the softness is relative to larger units in the (inaudible) the fuel prices and like we prefer not to give numbers or even the pattern if you will.
On average I don’t think people are par.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc.
Your line is now open.
My questions have been answered.
Thank you.
Thanks Paul.
Your next question comes from the line of John Alli from Decade Capital.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
It’s actually Reza.
Could you remind us going forward how much cash you expect to bring from the UK annually? We were – based on the model that we had share around April of last year in the $150 million to $200 million range.
It seemed less up front because we were using some of the cash flow to fund some of the synergy cost side of things.
So it could be in that $150 million to $200 million range.
And then I know the UK earnings have a lot of puts and takes and you’re having a good year thus far but looking out to 2013 there should be further growth in UK in ‘13 versus ‘12.
Is that correct? Yeah that is correct.
If you look at also how Ofgem has phased our revenues over time we’re actually seeing a 5.5% real increase year-on-year so that will also come into play in 2013.
And as we had already discussed in previous answers we also expect some additional revenue from incentives for performance starting April 1 of next year as well.
So that’s 5.5% or less whatever your assumption is on inflation this is a nominal increase in revenues plus bonus revenues offset by some level of cost escalation.
Right and so net-net it should be incremental to the $1.07 this year?  That’s correct.
Thank you very much.
I mean again that’s adjusting for share count on the convert next year so net of that you got to factor that in as well.
Okay.
So net income should be higher and then I should adjust for the share count and then I guess to see where that lands.
That’s correct.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from line of [Andrew Levy] from Avon Capital.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Just back on the Montana generation assets versus kind of just – kind of a bigger picture question but obviously NorthWestern has articulated interest in assets and in the past things have improved but let’s just say Montana hasn’t been the friendlier state of all the states that you do business with to you guys.
Why not bring in a local partner to kind of help man-in end of the part of the game and have you thought about that? Well I think we think about all the options available to us while as we go through our strategic planning process and as I indicated earlier we’ve really not commented on specific asset sales or strategic options.
And as I indicated on the last call we’re very happy with the business mix we have today and our focus is really on executing the plan that we’ve gotten in front of us and in my view we’ve done an excellent job on all fronts in supply and all the utilities are executing the plan and I think our results reflect that.
We’re very optimistic about the future with the offset of that with some business mix we have.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Hey guys two quick follow-ups.
One Pennsylvania I know you’re in a rate case now so it may be a little early to think about it but thoughts about whether you will file for the distribution rider next year or whether you would wait and maybe to file a true forward rate case a year or so later? Sure I’ll ask Greg to comment.
Yeah our intent is to file for the debt as early as fall 2013 so we just got our implementation order rate late last week from the PUC and that’s (inaudible) have us file a long-term improvement plan in the third quarter and file for this again as early as possible as we can in 2013.
And then I think we would be looking to file likely a fully (inaudible) for the next general rate case proceeding in Pennsylvania.
And you would file for a forward test year in ‘14 for ‘15 timeframe something like that? That sounds it will be in that timeframe so they’re not – obviously the disc – they’re not too exclusive.
So we’d be doing a combination of the two.
Got it.
And is there any lag associated with the disc or does the disc basically remove lag on distribution CapEx? It’s basically just a few months lag.
So we put plan into service and then we start recovering within I believe its’ four months.
On a portion of the distribution CapEx it doesn’t cover all CapEx’s reliability basis then.
So…  Got it guys.
Thank you.
Much appreciated.
Thanks.
Okay we really appreciate the questions today and with that I thank you for the call.
I think it was a great quarter and appreciate all the questions and we’ll talk to you next quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Carrie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the PPL Corporation Third Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to your Vice President and Director of Relations Mr.
Joe Bergstein.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody and thank you for joining the PPL conference call on third quarter results and our general business outlook.
We are providing slides of this presentation on our website at www.pplweb.com.
Any statements made in this presentation about future operating results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
A discussion of factors that could cause actual results or events to vary is contained in the appendix to this presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Spence PPL Chairman President and CEO.
Thanks Joe and good morning everyone.
And thanks for dialing in.
Joining me on the call today are Paul Farr PPL's Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer as well as the presidents of our 4 business segments who will participate in the Q&amp;A session today.
To get started I'll provide an overview of our third quarter results and a few operational highlights.
Then Paul will provide more details on our segment performance for the quarter.
We will try to keep this call brief and focus primarily on the events of the quarter as I know your day is full of earnings calls and we'll see many of you next week at EEI.
But before turning to earnings I'll update you on the impact of Hurricane Sandy.
The hurricane caused considerable damage in parts of Eastern Pennsylvania served by our PPL Electric Utilities affiliate.
This was the largest storm to hit PPL Electric Utilities-serviced territory causing outages to over 500 000 customers.
PPL Electric Utilities assembled the largest workforce in its history more than 5 000 people to undo Sandy's damage.
By Sunday night power had been restored to 99% of the affected customers the remaining work wrapped up on Tuesday.
Some of our neighboring utilities closer to the coast fared significantly worse.
We have sent contractor crews that have completed work for PPL Electric Utilities to New Jersey and New York utilities to assist in the rebuilding of their devastated communities.
I know this was a very trying time for our customers and I'd really like to thank them for their understanding and patience as we work diligently to restore their power.
The PA Governor's Office and PUC showed strong leadership in working with the utility industry to ensure we had solid communications and very well coordinated assistance especially through FEMA and community emergency management organizations.
I'd also like to recognize the hard work of PPL employees from Pennsylvania to Kentucky as well as workers from out-of-state utilities who assisted us in our restoration efforts.
So now let's move onto earnings.
Today we announced third quarter reported earnings of $0.61 per share compared with $0.76 in the same quarter of 2011.
Earnings from ongoing operations for the quarter were $0.72 per share versus $0.76 per share in the same period a year ago.
For the first 3 months of the year our reported earnings were $2 per share up from $1.91 per share in the first 9 months of 2011.
Ongoing earnings were $1.93 per share for the first 3 quarters of the year versus $2.02 per share in the same period last year.
Our results in the third quarter and through the first 9 months of the year are strong evidence that we are delivering on the promises of our transformational acquisitions in 2010 and 2011.
As expected our rate-regulated businesses are providing financial stability as we continue to effectively manage through challenging wholesale market power crisis.
I'm very pleased with both our financial and operational performance given what the markets and Mother Nature have challenged us with.
Now turning to Slide 5.
Strong earnings from the U.K.
utilities and the ability of our supply group to manage outage challenges at our Susquehanna  nuclear plant have put us in a position to raise the midpoint of our 2012 earnings forecast.
In fact we're updating our 2012 forecast range to $2.30 to $2.40 per share and earnings from ongoing operations making the midpoint of our guidance $2.35 per share.
Before we move to Paul's comments let me take a few minutes for an operational overview.
Starting in Kentucky.
Now that we've signed contracts with various vendors we've updated our estimate of capital spending necessary to complete our previously discussed environmental compliance projects.
We now estimate these projects will come in closer to $2.5 billion a reduction of $500 million from our original forecast.
We're able to deliver these savings to customers in Kentucky because we proactively addressed EPA regulations and were able to secure bids before others.
These savings will contribute significantly to our objective of reducing equity needs over the next few years.
Paul will provide more details on this effort in a few moments including other CapEx reductions higher dividend flows from the U.K.
and O&amp;M savings.
Despite the capital spending reductions we expect our rate base in Kentucky to grow at a compound annual rate of over 8% through 2016.
In addition it's likely we will need to deploy capital in the 2016 and 2017 time frame to replace the Bluegrass facility and potentially other coal-fired generation capacity.
But we'll clearly have the internal cash flow to support such investments at that time.
As for the rate case proceedings in Kentucky we are moving along as planned.
A settlement conference has been scheduled for November 13 and 14 with public hearing scheduled to take place later this month.
We continue to anticipate an order from the commission in late December or early January with new rates effective shortly thereafter.
I've mentioned on previous calls that our management team in the U.K.
has dramatically improved the customer service performance of our Midlands utilities.
This improved performance continues to translate into benefits for WPD customers as well as PPL shareowners.
I'm pleased to report that WPD is forecasting for the regulatory year ended March 31 2012 to have earned over $80 million in performance bonuses for the 4 U.K.
utilities most of which comes from the Midlands businesses.
This was due to our ability to deliver reliability to customers at front tier-level performance.
These bonuses will be reflected in our revenues in the 12-month period starting April 1 2013.
We can say with pride that our 4 network utilities are now among the best customer service providers in Great Britain.
Turning to the domestic operations in Pennsylvania.
In early October PPL Electric Utilities received final approval from the National Park Service to route the Susquehanna-Roseland Transmission Line through the park.
This was the final permit required for this major grid upgrade that will improve electric service for millions of people in the Northeast saving consumers more than an estimated $200 million per year and creating about 2 000 jobs during its construction.
The rate case in Pennsylvania is proceeding headed towards a final commission decision in December.
We're of course disappointed by the ALJ's recommended decision that would produce an allowed return on equity of 9.74%.
The ALJ recommendation would result in a $64 million increase in distribution revenues compared with the $104 million increase we had proposed when we filed our case.
Today we are filing detailed exceptions to this ALJ recommendation.
We remain hopeful that the PUC's final decision will reflect a higher return on equity than this recommendation especially in light of our need to continue replacing aging infrastructure and our strong customer service record.
At our supply segment we resumed generating electricity from Unit 1 of the Susquehanna nuclear plant yesterday.
We shut down the unit October 20 to inspect the Unit 1 turbine.
The inspection confirmed data obtained from diagnostic equipment we installed earlier in this year to monitor for conditions that could lead to turbine blade crash.
This is good news because it confirms the root cause analysis and enables us to move forward with a long-term solution.
During the just-completed outage on Unit 1 we replaced a small number of cracked blades.
Based on similar data from the diagnostic equipment on the Unit 2 turbine we plan to shut that unit down for inspection and replace any cracked blades we discover.
We're finalizing our plans with a vendor on a long-term solution that we believe will resolve the cracking issue and can be implemented starting in the first half of 2013.
We're revising the estimated after-tax financial impact of these inspections to $25 million to $30 million as we've been able to complete them more rapidly than initially expected.
On Slide 7 we provide updated detail on the competitive supply segment hedges.
We've adjusted our expected output levels for 2012 to reflect the actual results through September 30 and our forecast for the remainder of this year.
The decline in our expected Eastern baseload generation is primarily driven by the Susquehanna outage.
For 2013 we've reduced our coal hedges in the East as we continue to manage our coal levels by working with coal suppliers to defer renegotiate or buy out existing coal contracts.
We've also provided our 2014 hedge details for the first time as we've layered on additional power hedges and have hedged now approximately 1/2 of our 2014 baseload output.
By the end of 2012 we would expect to be 60% to 90% hedged for 2014.
In conclusion we're very pleased with our results through the first 9 months and confident this business mix is producing the shareowner benefits we expected.
The Midlands acquisition continues to prove to be highly successful.
The supply segment continues to perform well and manage through the current market and operational challenges.
And our domestic regulated segments are progressing through the rate proceedings and executing on the rate base growth opportunities.
I'll look forward to your question following Paul's comments.
Paul? Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
Let's move the Slide 8 to review our third quarter financial results.
PPL's third quarter earnings from ongoing operations were lower than last year primarily driven by lower earnings at the supply segment as a result of lower energy margins higher O&amp;M and higher depreciation which were partially offset by higher earnings in the U.K.
primarily driven by higher delivery revenue.
We've outlined on Slide 9 the Kentucky regulated segment earnings drivers.
Our Kentucky regulated segment earned $0.12 per share in the third quarter a $0.01 decrease compared to last year.
This decrease was primarily driven by lower retail margins as a result of lower residential consumption partially offset by higher industrial load compared to a year ago.
Moving now to Slide 10.
Our U.K.
regulated segment earned $0.28 per share in the third quarter a $0.06 increase over last year.
This increase was due to higher earnings at WPD Midlands and higher delivery revenue at WPD South West and South Wales primarily driven by higher prices.
These positive earnings drivers were partially offset by higher pension expense at the 2 legacy companies and less favorable currency exchange rates.
Turning to our Pennsylvania regulated segment on Slide 11.
This segment earned $0.06 per share in the quarter a $0.01 increase compared to last year.
This increase was primarily due to higher transmission and distribution margins and lower financing costs partially offset by higher O&amp;M.
Moving to Slide 12.
Our supply segment earned $0.26 per share in the third quarter a decrease of $0.10 compared to last year.
This decrease was driven by lower Eastern energy margins primarily due to lower hedged energy prices; lower Western energy margins primarily due to lower volumes; higher O&amp;M; higher depreciation; and higher financing costs.
Turning to Slide 13.
We have updated our CapEx plan to reflect the changes for the lower projected ECR capital spending in Kentucky.
As Bill discussed this represents a $500 million reduction for 2012 to 2016 from our original plan.
We are still finalizing our business planning process but have identified an additional $200 million to $300 million of supply CapEx that can be eliminated over the next several years that is not currently reflected in this chart.
These capital reductions will provide additional financial flexibility while we continue to manage through a low commodity price environment.
Turning to Slide 14.
We have updated our rate base growth projections with the only change being the reduced ECR spending in Kentucky.
We now project to more than $7.5 billion in increase in rate base from 2012 to 2016 resulting in a 7.5% compound annual growth rate.
We realized the reduced capital spending in Kentucky has an impact on future EPS but this is significantly offset by the elimination of the equity needed to fund those investments.
Obviously the almost $700 million to $800 million in reduced CapEx in supply and Kentucky is a major driver to eliminating equity needs beyond our DRIP issuance.
We also expect to repatriate an additional $30 million to $50 million per year above our previous expectations from the U.K.
driven by our forecast of strong annual revenue bonuses and performance ahead of plan on cost synergies.
We continue to evaluate our level of O&amp;M spending and have made progress on that front.
But Fukushima-related costs and the need for additional outages at Susquehanna over the next few years to implement the permanent fix for the blade cracking issue are expected to absorb that benefit in the near term.
Beyond this time frame we do see opportunity to reduce supply O&amp;M.
Given the significant attention dividends have received during this earnings season let me end with our commitment to the dividend which we view as an extremely important piece of our total shareowner return.
The current dividend level represents a 61% payout ratio based on the midpoint of our revised 2012 earnings forecast and is much more than covered by our rate-regulated earnings.
As we have been indicating we expect modest increases to the dividend through the low parts of the commodity cycle and as we deploy significant capital on our rate-regulated utility businesses.
This intention is reflected in the dividend increase that we announced earlier this year.
Our dividend is secure and we clearly see added flexibility for future growth as we execute on our rate-regulated growth strategy.
With that by way of review I'd like to turn the call back over to Bill for the Q&amp;A period.
Thank you Paul.
And operator we're now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from Paul Patterson.
On the nuclear cost side there you mentioned some -- could you just give us a little bit more of a flavor? I mean you said $25 million to $30 million for the inspection.
But what kind of costs are we talking about with respect to the actual repair of the blade cracks and any of the sort of Fukushima -- or any other basic costs that you're seeing? The other sort of question related to that is that Exxon mentioned on their call that they were looking at annual refueling cycle potentially to at least some of their plants I think help out with their fuel expense.
I was just wondering what your thoughts are about that with respect to Susquehanna.
Sure.
I don't think we would change our refueling outages at this point or the timing of them.
Related to cost for Fukushima we're still in the process of determining that.
But as we've mentioned on previous calls we think the capital costs will be very manageable and the real question or open question at the moment is whether the industry would be required to install filtered nets on the units and that would be a little bit more costly.
But again I don't think in the overall context of PPL that those costs of capital would be unmanageable.
As for your first part of your question on the costs to replace the blades and the ultimate fix on the replacement side the costs for the O&amp;M associated with the outage as well as the replacement costs those have been already factored into the numbers that we have provided today that $25 million to $35 million after-tax.
In terms of the fix we're still determining exactly what those costs would be.
But again I don't think that they're going to be unmanageable for us.
Okay.
And then with respect to the filtered venting issue what kind of -- I mean you mentioned it's manageable for you guys.
Is there any sort of sense as to roughly speaking what the impact could be there? I'll ask Dave DeCampli to comment on that.
Yes.
First of all we believe the commission NRC will be wrestling with this issue shortly probably by the end of the month as to whether that filtered vent will be included in the package of improvements or changes we'll have to make at the unit.
Filtered vent though we do not have a solid enough estimate on it at this point in time we do have an estimate for the balance of the other changes we believe will be necessary and that's somewhere between $60 million and $85 million.
Yes.
Of capital.
But that doesn't include the vents.
Is that right? That's correct.
That's right.
And I think...
Well my understanding was that the staff was going to be maybe issuing a recommendation for these filtered vents.
And I'm just sort of trying to get a sense as to what the impact of those would be.
Sure.
Yes I think we'll know more obviously by the end of the month once we find out exactly what they're looking for and the time frame they're looking for.
Okay.
And these are sort of capital expenses.
Is O&amp;M considerably more or less or a big factor in all of this? Yes.
It really wouldn't factor in any meaningful way.
It would be capital.
Okay.
And then just on industrial sales in Kentucky.
It looked like they've been very strong.
What's going on there? Sure.
I'll ask Vic Staffieri to comment.
Our capital -- our sales on industrials are up 9% quarter-over-quarter and about 6% for the year.
And that's just -- we've just had some good robust industrial sales in the automotive sector and in the North American stainless and the return to service of a facility that was out of service last year.
So we've had good steady industrial sales growth in Kentucky this year 6% over last year.
And just in terms of trading just to revisit on that how is the outlook for trading in your forecast now looking with your current experience and just what you're seeing out there? We're right on plan.
I don't think there's any change.
Okay.
And then just finally the Kentucky case.
It looks like you guys are going to be having settlement discussions pretty soon.
Any sense as to how those are shaping up or the outlook for those? The settlement the hearings are scheduled to begin next week and it will be too early for me to speculate.
We haven't had a chance to sit down with interveners yet.
The big issues as you might imagine are return on equity and there's some depreciation a little bit of skirmishing around O&amp;M expenses.
But it's really the return on equity.
The question will come from Kit Konolige.
LLC</strong> So a couple of questions.
Paul I think in the past you've talked about your belief that earnings from the supply business would not drop below 0 at the bottom of the cycle.
Is that still the case as you start to hedge out into '14 now? Yes.
As I think about the hedges that we've layered in and I think about the balance of the business plan which again is getting close to final we continue to believe that we can keep the supply earnings at that neutral to positive for the tougher years of the cycle that you're referencing.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Excellent.
And on WPD then you said that $1 million [ph] in performance bonuses.
This is the relative to the -- I think in the past you've talked about $60 million or better that you expected here.
That's the kind of data point that we're following here? Yes that's correct.
Your next question will come from Justin McCann.
A question for Paul.
What is your current projection of average outstanding shares for '13 and '14 and also your expected effective tax rate both for the U.K.
and on a consolidated basis for those years? Yes.
On a consolidated basis on the ETR for '12 and '13 we are around 28% to 30% for '12 and '13 and that goes blending [ph] across all of -- actually a little lower than that closer to 25% for '12 28% to 30% for 2013.
And let me pull the share amounts for it.
2012 weighted average around 586 million.
We'll get back to you on the '13 number.
Your next question will come from Julien Dumoulin.
Research Division</strong> So congratulations again on the U.K.
here.
It just seems like it never stops.
I'd be curious to what extent are the year-to-date benefits or above plan that you recognized in your guidance? Are those going to go forward? Or is this really driven by kind of a one-time tax benefit this year? If you could kind of parse that apart I'd appreciate it.
Sure.
I would say it's really a combination of great operational performance good customer service and reliability that's going to drive some of the performance on a go-forward basis and then there are some tax benefits.
But I think basically it's small and it's really driven by the fundamentals of the business not any one-time items.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then secondly on supply kind of going back to the first question there on the nuclear costs if you could just -- in aggregate what kind of cost increases are we talking about? And then secondly just flagging I suppose to the extent to which on a go-forward basis '12 '13 '14 what kind of costs are we talking about? At what point will we recognize this O&amp;M benefit? Sure.
Well on the cost for Fukushima-related as we mentioned the first part of it is pretty well known.
And that's making changes to everything but the filtered vents the items that the NRC and the industry is on the same page with which will allow us to respond a bit better in an unlikely event of a challenge to off-site power in particular as well as maintaining proper levels and understanding where the water levels are and the spent fuel pools as well as the temperature.
So those instrumentation changes are relatively small and low capital cost items.
So all of that as Dave mentioned I think in the $50 million to $60 million kind of range.
The bigger unknown is around the filtered vents which as I commented earlier we don't have a good estimate yet because we're not exactly sure what the NRC maybe looking for.
When it comes to the turbine blades the majority of our expense to do the permanent fix will probably come next year.
That will come with some unscheduled outages so we're going to have on the units it's not in the refueling we'll have a special outage to put in the permanent fix.
And then the scheduled outage may -- hopefully wouldn't take much longer but it could be a little bit longer.
So O&amp;M for 2013 will be a bit higher now.
As I mentioned on the last call we have a number of initiatives underway to trim our O&amp;M and capital expenses particularly in the supply segment.
And there we would expect some of the O&amp;M savings for 2013 would be offset by the increased outage that we have to take next year.
So that's kind of a rundown of where we see the supply business from an O&amp;M and capital perspective.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And perhaps a last quick one here more strategic.
On the supply business overall how are you thinking about it from an ownership perspective particularly given some of the comments from some of your peers of late? Sure.
We still like the business mix that we have.
We have no plans to make a strategic change with the supply business.
And we're happy with its performance through the good part of the cycle and we'll manage it well through the down cycle.
Your next question will come from Jonathan Arnold.
Research Division</strong> Just on the additional CapEx cuts I think Paul you mentioned in your speech $200 million to $300 million of additional CapEx you might take out over the next several years.
Are you saying that you're planning to go through with these? Or that's something you have sort of obviously to manage through prolonged down cycle? Or is that something we're going to actually see you do? Yes.
I would say that as we look at the -- responding to the lower commodity environment that those are actions that make economic sense to take.
We would try to take those in the final business plan that our board will approve later this year.
So I don't think [indiscernible] the margin.
Research Division</strong> So that's something that's going to be in the plan but just wasn't on the slide? Correct.
We typically only update the chart in full of CapEx on an annual basis and then provide you -- throughout the years as we make changes we provide you the deltas.
We'll reassess whether or not we actually go ahead and update that going forward just so you have it all in one spot.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you talked about -- I think it was about $500 million of lower spending on environmental CapEx and because you've moved early on getting this stuff moving.
To what extent was it a function of the final rules being less severe than maybe the initial proposal? Was that a piece of it or not? No that was a very small piece.
It was $30 million to $40 million of the total spending to optimize around gas.
But it was heavily driven by the mercury rules so not driven by that at all.
Research Division</strong> So you're just being more conservative about what you assume it would cost? I'm sorry this is Vic Staffieri.
I would say it's not a question of conservatism.
We had a plan that we laid out with the regulatory commission in Kentucky.
We applied pursuant to our environmental cost recovery mechanisms.
We had projections of what we thought the compliance costs were.
And we were just very fortunate that with the commission's support we were able to get out early get our estimates in get it all bid everything was bid here including all the commodities.
And all of these bids have come back very favorable and that's really the genesis of the $500 million in savings.
Your next question will come from Anthony Crowdell.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on you had I guess there's additional dividends being repatriated from the U.K.
properties.
I mean is that additional -- is that going to be absorbed by the higher expenses that you have at the other business units? No.
I would say that that's a straight increment in terms of additional cash flow that we've got in the U.S.
that we're then able to deploy to the regulated utilities primarily here that have the equity needs as they're growing rate base so strongly.
So yes we don't have a forecast out for '13.
So I don't want to talk about things on a net basis per se that that's not being absorbed and is incremental to the cash we have to invest in the domestic rate-regulated.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And lastly it looks like you have the potential to wrap up the cases early -- late December early next year both in Kentucky and in Pennsylvania.
I mean does the company think they could earn your allowed return in these 2 jurisdictions once these rate proceedings are finished? Or there'll still be lag where you'll still underearn? Well since we're still in a pretty heavily capital-intensive building program infrastructure and replacements there's going to be immediately some type of lag.
But we can manage some of that hopefully through O&amp;M and other levers that we have to try to keep it close to or near the ROE.
But I think as we've said in the past with the type of the spending we need to do on a traditional general rate case basis that we'd be probably looking at needing to file every few years.
Now I would probably just remind you that a lot of the spending that we are planning to do has real-time or near-real-time recovery particularly in Kentucky with the environmental spend.
Of course in the U.K.
it's all returned off and on immediately as we spend it.
And then in Pennsylvania we have a new law that was passed early this year that will allow us to file for some of the capital about 1/3 or more of the capital that had we planned to spend under a new ratemaking mechanism which will allow more timely recovery.
So I think overall we feel good about our ability to keep the returns close to the authorized level because of the ratemaking constructive arrangements that we have in both Pennsylvania and Kentucky.
The other thing I'd chime in with is -- the other thing that's a driver that's a bit going against us is Pennsylvania we're dealing with still with Act 129 and that's corrupting the kilowatt hour sales growth that would more organically be there.
We talked about strength of industrial in Kentucky but we've seen some soft residential.
So a lot of our ability to stay out for longer periods will be dictated by how strongly the economy recovers and getting back to more normal load growth profiles as well.
Your next question will come from Paul Ridzon.
Research Division</strong> Do you have any recourse to the vendor on the turbine blades? Are they going to share some of this cost? Or is it all going to be expensed by you? At this point we have not made that determination.
I think we are both focused on ensuring that we know the root cause and putting in a permanent fix.
And in terms of the commercial sharing of the cost that will come at a later date.
But I think we're very focused on just making sure that we get the permanent fix into the unit as quickly as possible.
Your next question will come from Michael Lapides.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to make sure one thing.
Am I following -- are you expecting multiple years of higher nuclear O&amp;M and capital cost of suppliers? Or is this more of a one-time thing related to Fukushima meaning a 1 year where you'll see higher expense and then things kind of normalize beyond that? We would be looking at this as a one-time expense.
We're hopeful that for the Susquehanna turbine outage blade-cracking issue we can accomplish much of what we need to do in 2013.
We'll know better by the end of the year.
But yes we would look at these as one-time events.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just want to make sure I follow the potential CapEx reductions at supply are not on the slide deck that you put out.
That's not on the slide deck you put out today but maybe something you put out when you give guidance for '13 as well as any potential O&amp;M reductions you do at supply.
Exactly right yes.
Your next question will come from Steve Fleishman.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First on the hedging strategy you guys ramped up a lot of hedging for '14 the last 2 quarters.
Are you kind of planning to do more ratably hedged from here on because you left open it for a while ramp it up? Is it kind of back to more ratable hedging from here? I think probably because we're getting closer to the period in which we'd want to have 2014 more highly hedged it will probably tend to be more ratable Steve.
But just as we've done in this last rally we're going to look to pick our spots as to when we hedge.
So I would say we're kind of leaning in that direction to be more ratable but we're going to certainly take advantage of any market opportunities as we see them.
I'd also say that we just completed our own internal fundamental analysis.
And I would say the team is more bullish on '14 and '15 than they've been for a while now.
So that would tend to have us leave it open a little bit more than we otherwise would.
But again as we drive closer and closer to '14 we'll want to have a pretty heavily hedged book by then.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One other question on Susquehanna.
Is the outage cost expected to be similar to this year? Or is it just kind of uncertain? Go ahead Dave.
Why don't you answer that? Yes.
The cost this year included -- will include 3 additional outages really.
We had a refueling outage.
But in addition to that we had an inspection outage for the other unit in the spring plus the outage we just accomplished plus a short upcoming outage to the other unit soon to start.
So this year we experienced 3 what we'll call maintenance or inspection outages to deal with the turbine [ph] rate issue.
We expect just 1 of those next year in addition to the refueling outage.
So next year's O&amp;M cost would be about 1/3 of what they would have been this year.
Your next question will come from Brian Chin.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question will come from Raymond Leung.
Research Division</strong> Just Paul can you just give us an update on the latest thoughts on the equity proceeds from the equity units? I think you talked about down streaming again down to supply in terms of reducing that there.
Any updates on thoughts given that you've been able to sort of maybe potentially reduce some cost and CapEx.
Does that change your view there? Yes.
It really doesn't change the view there per se.
It lightens up -- in '13 and '14 the equity needs a little bit in Kentucky but we have around 700 -- north of a $700 million refinancing that was otherwise due at supply next year.
So we'll downstream cash for that.
We will equitize appropriately Kentucky and PPL Electric Utilities to help finance those rate base growth plans.
So I wouldn't say really anything has changed with respect to that.
To the -- sorry to hijack the question.
But the individual that asked about the 2013 the weighted average share count of 614 million shares for that year.
But Ray I wouldn't expect that we'd be changing the plan materially.
And again those cuts are coming across a 4- to 5-year window so in any given year they're not all that significant.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a sidebar question.
Can you talk a little bit about PPL Montana and what's going on down there? I think one of the agencies changed the outlook the other day.
Is it just all margin pressure and lack of contracts? Yes.
If you read the S&amp;P report it's reduced levels of contracting as we go out over the next couple of years.
So very heavily hedged this year and next year less hedged in '14 and '15.
And those are the years like we see with respect to the entire supply business where we do see some pressure on it.
And given the project finance nature of that sale-leaseback they've put a negative outlook on the BBB-.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question will come from Ashar Khan.
I just wanted to -- I guess Bill you mentioned in the beginning of your comments that there might be some more additional CapEx at Kentucky in '16 and '17.
Could you just tell us the amount and when will that be firmed up? I guess it's not in your projections right now.
It is not in the projections right now Ashar and we don't have a preliminary number yet.
But maybe Vic can talk to what we're thinking about it in terms of projects.
We're in the process now of an RFP.
We just got the offers in last week to meet [indiscernible].
We have some capacity requirements in '17 and '18.
We've had the Bluegrass turbines originally we were going to use to meet that.
We haven't done that.
Those capital savings were reflected in 2012.
And until we evaluate the bids that we just received and we will also take into account any self-build options for '17 and '18 still early for us to make an estimate on what those capital requirements might be.
Okay.
But when will you get to know? Is it like a year down the road? Or when should we expect you having a clearer idea of those? Well I think we could handle it by the first quarter of next year when we're done with the evaluation of the RFPs.
Okay.
Operator if there are no more questions in the queue -- apparently not.
Okay.
Well thanks everyone for joining us today.
And we'll see many of you at EEI.
And safe travels.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Janice and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the PPL Corporation Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Joe Bergstein Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining the PPL conference call on fourth quarter and year-end results and our general business outlook.
We're providing slides of this presentation on our website at www.pplweb.com.
Any statements made in this presentation about future operating results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
A discussion of factors that could cause actual results or events to vary is contained in the appendix to this presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Spence PPL Chairman President and CEO.
Thanks Joe and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your participation in today's call.
Joining me on the call are Paul Farr PPL's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; as well as the Presidents of our 4 business segments who will participate in the question-and-answer session.
To get started I'll provide an overview of our fourth quarter and year-end 2012 results as well as a few operational highlights.
Then Paul will provide more details on our segment performance for the fourth quarter and for the full year.
Let me start by highlighting this morning's announcement of a dividend increase beginning with the April 1 payment.
The new annualized rate will be $1.47 per share up from $1.44 per share previously.
This increase represents the 11th increase in 12 years and reflects a 177% increase over that period.
Turning to earnings.
Today we announced year-end 2012 earnings that exceeded our forecasted range.
Reported earnings for 2012 were $2.60 per share compared with $2.70 per share in 2011.
Earnings from ongoing operations were $2.42 per share compared to $2.73 per share a year ago.
Reported earnings for the fourth quarter were $0.60 per share down from $0.78 per share a year ago and our ongoing earnings for the fourth quarter were $0.49 per share compared with $0.71 a share a year ago.
Our year-over-year decrease in ongoing earnings was driven predominantly by lower supply business margins as a result of falling power prices.
We're pleased with these results as each of the segments performed better than their forecast midpoints with the U.K.
achieving the strongest outperformance at $0.04 per share.
Keys to our success is a strong focus on business plan execution by the people in each of our business and service groups.
As I'll discuss shortly in my operational overview 2012 was a very busy year in which we accomplished significant milestones that position PPL well over the next several years.
Now let's turn to a discussion of our 2013 earnings forecast which we also announced today.
We're forecasting 2013 earnings of $2.25 per share to $2.50 per share resulting in a midpoint of $2.37 per share.
This 2013 forecast reflects the combination of high revenues from our 3 regulated businesses following recent rate proceedings and automatic adjustments resulting from prior proceedings and lower energy margins from our supply business as our higher price hedges are rolling off.
The forecast also includes an additional scheduled outage at our Susquehanna nuclear plant as we have accelerated our plans to implement a long-term solution to the turbine blade issues.
In addition our forecast includes dilution of $0.11 per share associated with common stock issuances which were related to the company's 2010 equity units and the 2012 forward stock sale.
Even though 2012 is now in the rearview mirror I'd like to review a number of key accomplishments from last year which set us up well for 2013 and beyond.
In Kentucky we reached a very positive settlement on rate cases that resulted in an allowed return on equity of 10.25% and annual revenue increases of about $100 million.
The new rates went into effect January 1.
In the United Kingdom our management team successfully completed the integration of the Midlands operations dramatically improving the customer experience in that region and we believe that level of performance will continue.
Under the regulatory rules in the U.K.
this improved performance translates directly into benefits for PPL's shareowners.
WPD earned more than $80 million in performance bonuses for the 4 U.K.
utilities most of which comes from the Midlands business.
These bonuses will be reflected in our revenues in the regulatory year starting April 1 2013.
The 4 network utilities operated by WPD are now among the best customer service providers in Great Britain.
Turning to our Pennsylvania utility operations we received a favorable decision on our rate increase request.
The Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission granted an allowed return on equity of 10.4% and an increase in annual revenues of $71 million.
At that level of return on equity we expect to be able to make significant distribution investments over the next several years to replace aging infrastructure which is going to result in more jobs greater levels of local tax base and improving levels of reliability for our Pennsylvania customers.
Also just last month PPL Electric Utilities filed a request with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission to implement a distribution system improvement charge to accelerate recovery of about $700 million in new capital investments that will improve system reliability over the next 5 years.
PPL Electric utilities was the first Pennsylvania electric company to file for this mechanism after having our long-term infrastructure improvement plan approved just last month.
2012 also marked a year of operational excellence for PPL Electric Utilities.
The utility received its 18th J.D.
Power award ranked highest among large utilities in the Eastern U.S.
for residential customer satisfaction and just recently PPL Electric Utilities received another J.D.
Power award for business customer satisfaction bringing the total to 19 awards.
In addition PPL Electric received very good reviews for its effort in restoring service to more than 500 000 customers affected by Hurricane Sandy.
We thank both our Pennsylvania and Kentucky employees for their exceptional performance in the restoration process.
The total cost for the storm repairs was about $66 million.
Finally on the transmission front the 145-mile Susquehanna-Roseland Transmission Line project received its final approval in 2012 and PPL Electric made a Pennsylvania PUC filing for approval of a new project called the Northeast/Pocono transmission project.
This involves construction of 3 new electrical substations and a new 230 kV power line.
Turning to our supply business we've significantly adjusted operations of our coal-fired plants in the Northeast and in Montana to meet the challenging market realities.
Our gas-fired plants in the Northeast are performing very well and are running as baseload units with 2012 capacity factors of 70% at our Lower Mount Bethel facility and 75% at the Ironwood plant.
At Susquehanna nuclear we have plans in place to address the turbine blade issue and we're currently running smoothly following our outages at Unit 2 in the fourth quarter.
The ability to overcome the challenges in 2012 exhibits supply's effective portfolio optimization and our ability to aggressively respond by leveraging our diverse generating assets.
Before turning to Paul let's talk about PPL's key focus areas for 2013.
At supply our primary focus will be instituting operational and regulatory improvements at our Susquehanna nuclear facility.
As I mentioned earlier we plan to address turbine blade issues on both units this spring.
The extension of the Unit 2 outage and the maintenance outage for Unit 1 are estimated to have an after-tax earning impact of about $0.05 per share which is now included in our 2013 forecast.
Dave DeCampli President of our supply group and his team will also be working to reduce costs throughout the fleet developing the best strategy to steer PPL's supply business through the current down cycle.
In the U.K.
we'll be working closely with Ofgem the electricity regulator on its new rate setting process which is scheduled to go into effect in 2015.
Under the new process network operators would have their base revenues established for an 8-year period.
One primary objective this year will be to provide Ofgem with a solid well-justified business plan for each of the 4 U.K.
network businesses in order to become fast tracked.
This is a process that concludes up to 9 months ahead of the standard timetable.
In Kentucky we'll be focused on executing the various environmental projects that have been approved by the Kentucky Public Service Commission and will be recovered through the ECR mechanism as well as the construction of a new combined-cycle gas plant that should be available for service in the spring of 2015.
We continue to expect compound annual rate base growth of almost 9% in Kentucky through 2017.
In Pennsylvania we expect to make significant progress on our distribution infrastructure projects approved through the DSIC mechanism as well as our Susquehanna-Roseland Transmission project.
In March we'll begin a major step in the Susquehanna-Roseland project with construction starting on a 500 kV Lackawanna Substation.
We continue to expect this $560 million project to be in service by mid-2015.
As we make these substantial investments in our U.S.
utilities Greg Dudkin and Vic Staffieri are focused not only improving the earned returns but also on improving reliability and customer service.
We believe this is critical to achieving successful regulatory outcomes as we saw in 2012.
Each of our objectives for 2013 will require the type of superior effort that is the hallmark of employees throughout the PPL family of companies.
Our success depends on an excellent understanding of the business attention to detail and a commitment to operational excellence.
And on the basis of that knowledge I feel very confident that we're well prepared for another successful year in 2013.
I look forward to your questions following Paul's comments.
Paul? Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
Let's move to Slide 8 to review fourth quarter and year-end 2012 results.
Our fourth quarter results include lower supply segment earnings driven by lower energy margins higher O&amp;M and higher income taxes.
Full year 2012 earnings from ongoing operations benefited from strong financial performance by our U.K.
utilities but the U.K.
results were more than offset by the combination of lower supply segment energy margins and higher O&amp;M depreciation and income taxes in our 3 domestic segments.
This year's results include dilution of $0.14 per share resulting from the common stock issuance Bill mentioned earlier.
Let's move to the Kentucky regulated segment earnings drivers on Slide 9.
Our Kentucky regulated segment earned $0.33 per share in 2012 a $0.07 decrease compared to 2011.
This decrease was due to lower retail margins primarily due to unfavorable weather during the first 4 months of 2012.
Higher O&amp;M driven by increased scope of scheduled generation outages in 2012 higher depreciation higher property taxes losses from an equity method investment and dilution of $0.02 per share.
Our U.K.
regulated segment earned $1.19 per share in 2012 a $0.32 increase over 2011.
[Technical Difficulty] Okay we seem to experience some technical difficulty.
We apologize for that.
I think we were – got cut off somewhere in the middle of Slide 10.
So we’re going back to Slide 10 on the U.K.
regulated segment earnings drivers.
So Paul go ahead.
Okay let me start back over at the beginning of Slide 10.
Again apologies folks.
Our U.K.
regulated segment earned $1.19 per share in 2012 a $0.32 increase over 2011.
This increase was due to 4 additional months of earnings contributions from the Midlands Utilities a full 12 months versus 8 months in 2011.
Higher utility revenue primarily due to higher prices partially offset by higher depreciation higher income taxes higher financing costs a less favorable currency exchange rate and dilution of $0.07 per share.
Moving to Slide 11 our Pennsylvania regulated segment earned $0.22 per share in 2012 a $0.09 decrease compared with 2011.
This decrease was the net result of higher O&amp;M primarily due to a greater amount of maintenance work compared to 2011 higher vegetation management costs higher PUC reportable storm expense and higher support [indiscernible] costs higher depreciation primarily due to capital investment and higher income taxes.
These were partially offset by higher transmission revenue and lower financing costs due to the redemption of preferred securities.
Segment results also included dilution of $0.01 per share.
Turning now to supply on Slide 12 this segment earned $0.68 per share in 2012 a decrease of $0.47 per share compared to the prior year.
Lower earnings were primarily driven by lower energy margins as a result of lower Eastern energy and capacity prices; lower Western energy margins primarily due to a contract termination related to the bankruptcy of a Southern Montana electric co-op; higher O&amp;M at Susquehanna as well as on our gas coal-fired and hydro-electric stations and higher shared service costs; higher depreciation; higher income taxes and higher financing costs as well as dilution of $0.04 per share.
Turning now to Slide 13 as Bill had previously mentioned we are announcing our 2013 earnings forecast range of $2.25 to $2.50 per share with a midpoint of $2.37 per share.
This slide shows the change in earnings looking at the key drivers for each segment.
A dilution impact of $0.11 has been isolated from the segment earnings.
In addition you'll notice a new nonoperating category that we refer to as Corporate and Other.
As we have evolved our business mix to a much more regulated focus our future financing strategy will include utilization of securities issuance from PPL capital funding which will be the primary driver of this category as well as certain other corporate costs not directly allocable to the operating segments.
The 4 operating segments will continue to be Kentucky regulated U.K.
regulated Pennsylvania regulated and supply.
Moving to the specific 2013 drivers.
We expect higher earnings from the Kentucky regulated segment primarily due to electric and gas base rate increases that went into effect January 1 higher expected retail loan growth and returns on additional environmental capital investment.
Partially offsetting these positive earnings drivers is higher O&amp;M.
We expect higher earnings in the U.K.
primarily driven by higher prices and lower income taxes partially offset by higher O&amp;M higher depreciation and higher financing costs.
We expect higher earnings from our Pennsylvania regulated segment as a result of higher distribution revenue from new base rates that became effective on January 1 and higher transmission revenue as a result of increased rate base partially offset by higher depreciation.
We expect lower earnings from our supply segment primarily due to lower energy margins as a result of lower energy prices and hedges rolling off partially offset by higher capacity prices and higher nuclear generation output higher O&amp;M at our Eastern and Western fleets higher depreciation and higher financing costs.
Let's move to Slide 14.
Given the difficulties some of you have expressed in modeling the U.K.
segment we are providing updated modeling parameters related to future earnings.
We will use the segment income statement format provided in the MD&amp;A of our SEC filings as the basis of our calculations.
Since the 2012 10-K has not yet been filed we provided the ongoing numbers on this slide and a reconciliation to GAAP numbers in the appendix to today's presentation.
Let's begin with revenues which are projected to increase by an average of 3.5% per year plus inflation for the balance of the price control review period that ends on March 31 2015 plus annual incentive awards.
This revenue increase includes regulated revenues that increase at 5.5% as well as revenues driven by pass-through costs such as transmission charges low carbon network fund charges and other nonregulated revenues.
While most of our operating costs excluding pension expense increase with inflation we will have additional O&amp;M in 2013 due to higher tree trimming and maintenance expense to continue our recovery from pre-acquisition spending levels related to the Midlands businesses.
We do expect this spending will be supportive of our continued ability to outperform on customer service and reliability metrics that generate bonus revenue potential.
Pension expense is expected to be GBP 20 million in 2013.
Pension expense in 2014 will obviously be driven by return on plan assets in '13 discount rate changes as well as other factors.
Until those drivers are finalized we have assumed the pension expense remains at GBP 20 million in 2014 in these numbers.
Depreciation expense will increase about 11% per year due to planned levels of capital investment.
In calculating interest expense most of our debt is fixed rate except for about GBP 380 million that is inflation linked.
In addition we anticipate a new debt issuance in the fall of this year of about GBP 400 million.
Finally we expect the 2011 equity units to convert in April of -- in 2014 and the underlying debt will be remarketed at prevailing rates at that time.
And for the remainder of the price control period our consolidated effective tax rate is expected to be about 22%.
Combining all these drivers with the foreign currency translation rate you should be able to reasonably estimate the U.K.
regulated segment's future earnings contribution.
These modeling parameters should result in approximately $770 million of ongoing earnings for 2013 consistent with the midpoint of our 2013 forecast for the U.K.
regulated segment.
For 2014 we are providing an ongoing earnings range for the U.K.
regulated segment of $825 million to $875 million.
On Slide 15 we provide updates on our free cash flow before dividends.
Our actual 2012 free cash flow before dividends was $556 million higher than the 2012 projection we provided last February.
The primary drivers for the increase were lower capital expenditures at our Kentucky regulated and supply segments totaling about $630 million which we have discussed on previous calls as well as higher earnings at our U.K.
regulated segment.
Partially offsetting these drivers were funding for the purchase of Ironwood and lower cash from operations primarily due to higher pension funding by all segments.
The largest driver of 2013 free cash flow before dividends is projected capital expenditures of $4.5 billion primarily in our rate-regulated businesses.
The details of our projected capital expenditures and rate base growth can be found in the appendix to today's presentation.
Cash from operations reflects strong earnings from all of our rate-regulated businesses and the impact of noncash expenses such as depreciation.
Cash from operations also reflects projected pension contributions of about $550 million this year.
Finally turning to Slide 16 our board approved a 2% increase in our common stock dividend increasing it to $1.47 per share on an annualized basis as Bill mentioned effective with the April 1 dividend.
This dividend level represents a 62% payout ratio based on the midpoint of our 2013 earnings forecast.
This chart shows the security of our current dividend in that projected ongoing earnings per share from our regulated businesses much more than covers our increased dividend level.
With that by way of review I'd like to turn the call back over to Bill for the Q&amp;A period.
Okay.
Thank you Paul and operator we're ready for questions please.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from Justin McCann of S&amp;P Capital and IP.
I have 2 questions for Paul and 1 for Bill.
For Paul what -- the effective tax rate for the U.K.
is expected to be 22%.
What will it be for the consolidated? On a consolidated basis for '13 between 27% and 28% for 2013.
Okay.
And after the exchange of the 2025 8.857s for the 2021 4.6s what is your current weighted average cost of capital? And where are you targeted for by the end of '13? The -- from an interest expense level we'll basically end up with the same level of P&amp;L interest expense on the converted note but a higher par balance than we were sitting on with the notes that were at Ironwood.
Your question on weighted average cost of capital is at what segment or our corp we're at? Yes corp.
I don't have that number off the top of my head right now.
Using a market-implied rate across all of the segments and blending that and looking at the average debt levels especially with the holdco leverage that we've got in the U.K.
and in Kentucky and the bit that we have at cap funding that includes the convertible securities it's going to be in the 7% to 8% range.
Okay okay and for Bill what kind of impact do you now see the MATS-related plant retirements by 2015 having on forward power prices? And when do you see this taking place? Sure.
I would say in terms of forward prices we haven't yet fully seen the MATS impact reflected.
We do believe that that impact should be in the range of $3 to $5 per megawatt hour in addition to where forward prices are today.
From a overall coal plant retirement perspective we would expect based on the MATS as well as the care and CSAPR EPA rules that you may get up to the 60 000 to 70 000 gigawatt retirement levels overall.
So -- and I believe that's about 20% a little over 20% of the U.S.
coal fleet could be impacted ultimately by MATS.
So I think the real question is one of timing.
We would expect somewhere between the 2015 to 2017 time frame that all those units that would ultimately be impacted would announce retirements in that range.
Your next question is from Dan Eggers of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Paul could you just give an update on where you guys are standing kind of on the cost reduction and the capital reduction programs and your kind of -- how that's fitting the plan? And what are kind of the major buckets where you're seeing benefit right now? I think when you look at the CapEx chart that we included in the presentation that we've reflected the -- it's about $250 million of reduction for the supply segment.
Most all of the major projects that are sitting in Kentucky have been fully contracted at this point in time so I would not expect that we would see much variability in that forecast.
The U.K.
is always pretty right on.
Greg and his team at EU are always pretty right on so it would really take another downward movement in power prices before we would have to address CapEx in an even more significant way than we've already taken over the last 2 or 3 planning cycles to cause that to go down.
On the O&amp;M front as Bill mentioned in the upfront remarks where we've included in the plan a $0.05 impact roughly for extra outages and extended outage in the refuel for Unit 2 at Susquehanna and a planned outage now for Unit 1 as well.
We had said back in fall that the combination of potential additional outages plus the Fukushima-related work was really going to absorb some of the cost-reduction measures that we had already been putting in place at our shared services units.
Some of the spending increase that you're seeing coming through the plan this year as I indicated for the EU was being driven by really trying to continue the outperformance on the customer service metrics and to get the condition of the network back to the level that it should have been at had the prior owner been spending where they should have been spending.
In addition Vic and his team cut somewhere around $50 million of O&amp;M last year just to respond to what we were seeing from really bad weather at the front end of the year so there is a restoration of some level of spend there as well.
So in the very short term in 2013 I think there are some things that happened in '12 and that are going to continue into '13 that will have an impact.
We're always focused on trying to operate the business in the most cost-efficient manner that we can and we'll continue to strive to find ways to do that.
I don't think that I would expect -- that you should expect to hear from us a larger scale O&amp;M reduction downsizing effort at least as we look at our business prospects right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just on Susquehanna if you guys look at the 2 outages planned for this year is this -- what is your level of confidence this will kind of fix the ongoing issues and [indiscernible] this plant back to a normal operating level going forward? Sure Dan.
I think we are highly confident.
We have a very detailed root cause analysis that we have worked on for the last year in conjunction with the vendor.
We believe the equipment changes we're making will in fact fix this for the long term so we're very optimistic that this can be put in place in the spring outage and take care of us on a go-forward basis.
Research Division</strong> Can I just -- one last question just on demand growth trends and what you guys are seeing.
Power demand weather normalized is down in part last year what are you guys expecting kind of in guidance and then looking forward into the CapEx program for volume gains for yes '13 and maybe a long-term outlook? Sure.
For the plan in 2013 in the Kentucky utility business on a weather normalized basis we're looking at a little more than 0.5% growth so around 0.7% growth.
In Pennsylvania because of energy efficiency requirements in the state we're actually looking at a decrease of about 0.5% on a volumetric basis again weather normalized.
So that's for 2013.
On a longer-term basis we would expect growth in about the 1% range on a year-over-year basis on a go-forward basis.
Your next question is from Kit Konolige of BGC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Question I guess this would be for Paul.
With regard to the cap funding entity so as you indicate you'll be breaking that out separately.
Can you give us an indication of -- I think you raised $400 million at that level last October.
What was the use of those funds? And can you give us an idea of what kind of level of funding you expect at that entity going forward? Okay.
Well I -- again as the models kind of transition here a little bit if we go back to even a couple of years ago when we did the Kentucky transaction the reason that we used Kentucky holdco as financing was it was cheaper to do it at that level than it was given the relative business mix at that time given the steps that we've taken over the past couple of years we're now comfortable with replacing the Kentucky holdco financing with a single holdco at PPL Cap Funding which comes with a PPL Corp.
guarantee.
The $400 million issuance last year was actually originally planned at supply and so we primarily used that level of financing to delever the supply business.
I would expect that as we remarket convert securities the piece of which -- the $1.150 billion that we'll convert in June will remarket at that level and then the $977 million $978 million that'll convert in April of the following year will also be remarketed at that level.
Those are existing outstanding securities and then I would look again as we kind of grow the balance sheet.
And as we're trying to maintain target credit metrics at the opcos it won't be an overreliance on cap funding it'll be the right balance between on the domestic front primarily first mortgage bonds some modest level of holdco issuances all to kind of keep the targeted credit metrics and cap structures at the regulated utilities plus the investment-grade credit rating at corp.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And one other -- somewhat related to that Paul so on supply segment reported earnings you've talked in the past about wanting to ensure that earnings at supply don't go negative as a segment.
Is that still the outlook? And what year would you expect the bottom to be? And would you be -- if we included this $0.04 that looks like it arguably could be a sign to supply.
Would that also be the case? That would be the case and I would -- as we think about kind of the business planning horizon as we look at our numbers 2014 looks like the trough period for us.
We need to kind of see obviously as we continue our hedging program and execute on our retail and other platforms.
We kind of see -- need those --  need to see those forwards play out.
So there's more work to do if you will but yes we will continue to see those levels.
And I think the good news there Kit is that with all the strategic acquisitions that PPL's done over the past few years we've really significantly shielded ourselves from commodity market volatility.
So I think as we look forward we have a very stable and predictable platform of earnings drivers that I think really position us well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so just to follow -- just to be clear Paul so you're saying EPS segment reported at supply would not go below 0 as you see it at this point? Correct.
Your next question is from Paul Ridzon of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Paul can you just remind -- can you remind us what your expected '13 and '14 share counts are? Yes they're actually in the appendix to the material...
Research Division</strong> Okay I'll dig them up.
Okay.
No problem.
Research Division</strong> And then with the maturities coming due have you taken any proactive steps to hedge out any interest rate risk around those refis? We actually have a very active hedging program around both interest rates and FX and we're right on in terms of where I would expect those hedge levels to be around expected issuances.
We actually are most active in kind of on the interest expense side inside the 24-month window but definitely 1 year out which we -- we're active so...
Your next question is from Neel Mitra of Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Question on supply now that you're running your coal plants less are you looking to blend some PRB or lower-cost coal into the northern add [ph] mix? And how would that affect your current coal contracts and transport agreements? Sure I'll ask Dave DeCampli President of our supply group to take that question.
Yes.
Neel we are experimenting with the use of lower quality coal in some of our coal units.
We need to determine technically the impact on the boilers over the long term.
So during the year late year 2012 we were doing a lot of test burning.
We do expect to be able to burn some lower-spec coal going forward.
And that is reflected in a little bit of an increase in our expected baseload generation from the coal units and it's priced in as well.
With regard to PRB coal with the transportation cost we just don't anticipate that being much of a player for us.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just additional question on the Susquehanna outages.
The way I understand it is that you have 2 planned outages in the spring and one's a refueling outage and you're going to try to do the work on the unit during the refueling outage.
So should we expect that there could be a possible additional outage in the fall? Or do you expect to be able to get all the work done in the spring? Yes the -- actually you know there's -- there are 2 outages scheduled for the spring.
One is the refueling outage that's -- was previously scheduled and we'll couple onto that the modifications or the initial modifications to that unit.
Within the same time frame with 1 week of overlap we're going to take the second unit off and do the same modifications to it.
So we expect to be done in the spring period with both units coming out of service.
Again one for refueling plus modification and then the other unit just for modification.
Your next question is from Julien Dumoulin-Smith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> First question going back to the U.K.
if you will I just wanted to get a little bit of a sense.
I know you talked about 2014.
Obviously you've been outperforming thus far and going forward.
How do you think about 2015 the rate review just again earned ROEs et cetera? How do you think about that in the context of the new rate design here as well and revenue profiling rate specifically as well? Okay.
I'll ask Rick Klingensmith President of our Global and Energy Services Group to take that question.
As we look at 2015 and the RIIO approach to the regulatory framework as we reach to that period of time there really are a number of factors that are -- come into the determination of what our revenues are going forward.
You mentioned profiling which is the way the revenues have been shaped during this rate review period will likely be different as to how we see perhaps a more unprofiled approach in the next rate review period.
That element is just one variable but there will be other variables that will come into play as well including the weighted average cost of capital incentive revenues our capital expenditures and our cost plans going forward into that next 8-year period.
We are still working on our business plans at the moment to put all those variables together and we'll be submitting those to Ofgem in July of this year.
So hard to say what the ultimate outcome will be from that RIIO effect but we will have a better idea of the various parameters and its effects with our business plans the middle of July.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then in terms of the I suppose early notification the accelerated business plan or what have you if you were to get that shall we say would we have a better view on '15 earlier shall we say? Well you may have a better view of '15 as Ofgem has announced that they would come out in October of this year with an assessment of the business plans that have been filed and an assessment of were any of those business plans of sufficient justification for them to be fast tracked through the process.
To the extent we are fast tracked through the process and that is our goal to have each of our 4 distribution operating companies fast tracked through the process that it would be in February '14 that we would have a final determination a set of final proposals from Ofgem for the fast-tracked entities.
That would be about 9 months sooner than the normal process that would happen toward the end of '14.
Research Division</strong> And sorry just to clarify just to ask you directly what kind of earned ROE are we talking about at the utility last year -- U.K.
utility? Well the U.K.
utility was in the 17% range as far as the earned ROE for the last year.
Research Division</strong> And that's at the holding company basis? That's in the U.K.
If you were to look at our U.K.
regulated segment which incorporates the interest costs associated with our equity units you would find that and some extra costs that are allocated here on the domestic side you would find our U.K.
regulated segment ROE as we've reported to be about 16% 16.1% in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And Paul just one clarification from the last question there I think Neel asked.
The kind of coal Dave that you're experiment with that is not PRB.
It's Illinois Basin? I'm sorry just wanted to clarify on behalf of Neel here.
Well we're working with a couple of suppliers for lower-spec coal but not PRB.
Your next question is from Angie Storozynski of Macquarie.
What is your realized ROE for Kentucky embedded in your midpoint of the '13 guidance? It's -- on a regulatory ROE basis it would be about 9.5% so that would exclude the goodwill and some other things that in the purchase accounting that wouldn't be embedded in a normal calculation.
But around [indiscernible] ...
Okay.
And if you were to include it is it like closer to -- is it below 9%? It will be below 9%.
It would be closer to 8%.
There's roughly $1 billion of goodwill on Kentucky.
Okay.
That's fine.
Secondly could you -- I mean I know that you're not showing us any power hedges for '15 but can you give us at least a sense if you have any hedges in both on power and the coal side? Sure.
We typically will report on that forward year that third year if you will later this year based on past practice.
So we don't have a lot of hedges out there in 2015 at this point.
We're probably in the 10% to 20% type range right now which is very typical where we would be at this point in time for a year like 2015.
So the comment that the '14 is an earnings trough for supply so '15 seeing some pickup is just purely a function of forward power curve.
Predominantly yes.
Okay.
And then lastly you are showing a slide with the share count with the average share count.
It seems to me at least that it's a little bit higher than what we heard from you during the third quarter earnings call.
Am I mistaken? No it should be right -- pretty much right on top of those numbers because at that time we knew that we would be able to constrain the future equity issuances after the equity forward settles here at the end of Q1 and then the 2 converts they're basically just driven management comp.
So that was embedded at that point in time as well.
It should be very close to those numbers.
Your next question is from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First on O&amp;M at the non-regulated PPL supply business just we've seen a lot of your peers whether it's Exelon whether it's FirstEnergy several others some of the IPPs talk about kind of increased focus on O&amp;M cost management given kind of a multi-year down cycle.
We've seen you reduce capital spending costs and we know that 2013 is a little unusual because you have the Susquehanna outages.
Just curious how you're thinking kind of second half of '13 or for the next few years about your -- I guess the actions you're likely to take given the power market conditions.
Sure.
I think as I mentioned in my opening remarks Michael we are very focused on managing the O&amp;M as we look at the next few years in particular.
And Dave why don't you comment on some of the specific things we are doing.
Yes Michael in 2012 on the fossil and hydro-side of the business we were able to reduce O&amp;M about $40 million.
Some of that was offset in 2012 due to the Susquehanna outages and you commented that will -- some of that will occur in 2013 as well.
We continue to work through the whole fleet and very very carefully work through a whole number of items to trim O&amp;M costs going forward.
I would expect level or slightly reduced O&amp;M in the plan for the next 5 years.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
Another thing you mentioned pension cash contributions in the $550 million range.
What's the impact of bonus depreciation across your segments and at the entirety of the business? The impact from what it does from a cash perspective? Research Division</strong> Cash and which segments could it be an offset to rate base.
Okay.
We have -- based upon the level of spend for next year plus some carryover from the prior years it would be about a $400 million deferred tax asset.
Now remember that we purchased north of $1 billion of net operating losses from the Kentucky acquisition that we have not been able to use at this point in time given the number of years that we've now been having bonus depreciation.
So we were not going to be a tax -- a federal-level cash taxpayer until 2016 without the incremental bonus depreciation we've been given.
That now pushes us out into at least 2017.
So we would not have had cash taxes planned prior to the gift of bonus depreciation that we got right at year end here but it will push out another year before we're a cash taxpayer.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then finally on Susquehanna the $0.05 is that mostly O&amp;M? Or is that lost megawatt hours? And then when we think about the future years should we back that out? Or do you expect to see future recurring higher nuclear O&amp;M costs? It is a combination of both O&amp;M as well as lost margin due to the days that we're planning to be out.
And on a go-forward basis the level of adjustment if you will on O&amp;M should be minimal meaning that we should come back to more or less a normal run rate with just our planned outage schedules and any follow-up work that we need to do on turbine blade-type modifications we would do in the context of scheduled outages as we go forward.
Your next question is from Andy Bischof of MorningStar Financial.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you'd just give a little more guidance around the incentive awards in the U.K.
business.
And kind of looking at this year's level is that a pretty good range for a run rate going forward and opportunities for further incentives? Sure.
As we noted we were able to generate a little over $80 million.
I believe it's $83 million in incentives in the last regulatory cycle which would kick in April 1 of this year.
And maybe Rick you could comment on how we look at the future in terms of incentive bonus.
Yes as we look out at the future as Bill mentioned for the regulatory year that ended in March of 2012 that we will get recovery starting in April 1 of this year for the 12 months following April 1 of this year.
It was about $83 million and about 80% of that incentive revenue was earned at the Midlands business.
20% of our legacy business is in Southwest and South Wales.
As we look into the future we are expecting and forecasting at least that same level of outperformance here over the next 2 years relatively in Q4 heading into our real period when the metrics are reset at that point in time.
So we are confident that we'll be able to earn at least that same level of $83 million in bonus revenues going forward.
So the net income -- the new net income guidance that we provided for 2013 and '14 reflects the $83 million of bonuses that we expect to continue.
Your next question is from Jonathan Ronald (sic) [Jonathan Arnold] of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> My question on the U.K.
just that you talked a little about this fast-track process.
Could you just describe a little more when you would expect to know if you will be going down that path and how that works? Yes as Rick mentioned I think on one of the previous answers to the question it was in the October time frame in '13 with the final knowledge in February-type time frame of 2014.
[indiscernible] Research Division</strong> Sorry I missed that.
And then I wanted to clarify on one of the other answers you gave on another question.
You talked about '14 being the bottom obviously and cyclically in the power business for you but you also said you needed the curves to cooperate or something along those lines.
So you're saying that '14 is the bottom of today's forward curve or '14 is the bottom assuming your view of the curve which might be different? Yes.
At that point in our 5-year plan we wouldn't have a significant blending yet of a PPL fundamental view.
So there might be some modest expectation in there of some recovery but it's much more towards years 4 and 5 of our plan where we would clearly expect to see recovery and heat rates and the retirement of the units that Bill had talked about so not anything significant.
It's pretty much the market [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> So it's for -- so you see '15 as an up year based off the curves that are on the screen today? We would expect to clearly see by '15 some level of correction in terms of things getting more rational.
And there is even in the forward curve for '15 now a slight increase; '14 to '15 there's already built in in the forwards some increase there already.
So I think what Paul is saying is that our current plan and outlook for '14 and '15 really reflect the forward prices that are posted out there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I'm still not clear if '15 is an up year based off the actual market curve.
It is.
Yes it is slight increase.
And your next question is from Bill Appicelli of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Most of my question have been asked but just one clarifying point.
The -- I think you talked about your -- the ROE you expect to have earned in or will earn in Kentucky for 2013.
What about Pennsylvania? Sure.
I'll ask Greg Dudkin President of our PPL Electric Utilities to answer that.
Similar to what Paul answered for Kentucky based on our regulated rate base for the distribution business we expect about a 9.3% ROE for the distribution business and then on a GAAP perspective including both our transmission distribution business we'll probably be around 8% and the difference being that we have non-earning regulatory assets primarily deferred taxes or deferred storm costs and cash working capital.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if you -- I guess if you strip that out just look more on an apples-to-apples basis on how you view the distribution how would you look at that ROE then? The 9.3% I think you'd call.
On a regulatory basis how you would look at it it would be in the low 11% range around transmission.
Right yes so the 9.3% equates to the 10.4% that we were granted in the Turner [ph] rate case.
Research Division</strong> Right but if I think about all the Pennsylvania assets on a regulatory basis so you're saying 9.3% on the distribution side and closer to 11% on transmission.
Is that fair? Correct yes.
Research Division</strong> And then in terms of the rate case schedule I know you just resolved cases in both jurisdictions this past year.
But would you expect again to file in '14 for new rates in '15 in both Pennsylvania and Kentucky? [indiscernible] yet.
With the low levels of low growth that Bill referred to earlier and the level of capital spend that we've got not all of which gets a tracker-based recovery on it especially and including the combined cycle units that's under construction now in Kentucky we would expect in every other year so 2015 new rates would be effective correct.
Your next question is from Anthony Crowdell of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One is on the U.K.
You talked about what you guys earned or realized ROE in 2012 and you've given out parameters until the end of '14.
But when I try to model '15 beyond do you think Ofgem has an ROE target where when you bake in incentives and everything else and you add it all in that they're comfortable with? Or is it just if you get incentives and you could earn 16% or 17% or 18% that's fair game? Go ahead Rick.
This is Rick Klingensmith.
As you look at what they've done in the past the upside potential was there because ultimately the ability to outperform also is helping customers.
And so in the past Ofgem has not been concerned about the outperformance that might be available for your levels of performance because it's ultimately benefiting customers.
As we move into RIIO that will likely be the case but they will also look at the weighted average capital that's required for the business to finance the capital investment and the costs going forward.
So they will reset sort of all the revenues based upon that finance ability of our business plan going forward.
But I do believe that their process around outperformance will remain in the RIIO time period.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just quickly on supply I know people are beating up the '14 and '15 whether to trough or not.
I'm just wondering are you seeing enough liquidity in the power markets right now to lock in on '14 or '15 or increase your hedges? Any comment on liquidity of that market? Well for '14 there's liquidity.
I think when you get out to '15 and '16 that's when you start to see pretty thin markets there.
So no real issues locking down more hedges for '14.
But as we get into -- further here into '13 liquidity will probably increase I'm sure for '15.
So we always look for opportunities to hedge in when the markets are available and at a price that we think is fair.
Okay.
Well I think with that operator we'll close the call and I thank everyone for joining us today and look forward to our next call.
This concludes today's PPL Corporation Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Matthew and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the PPL Corporation First Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Joe Bergstein you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining the PPL conference call on first quarter results and our general business outlook.
We are providing slides to this presentation on our website at www.pplweb.com.
Any statements made in this presentation about future operating results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
A discussion of the factors that could cause actual results or events to differ is contained in the appendix to this presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Spence PPL Chairman President and CEO.
Thanks Joe and good morning everyone.
Appreciate you joining us this morning.
Here with me today are Paul Farr PPL's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; as well as our 4 business segment presidents who will participate in the Q&amp;A session later today -- later on the call.
To kick off the call this morning I'll provide an overview of our first quarter results some commentary on our 2013 earnings forecast and an operational overview.
Following my remarks Paul will provide a more detailed financial overview.
Turning to Slide 4 I'm pleased to report that we delivered strong growth in each of our regulated segments in the first quarter.
Combined the regulated businesses delivered a growth of 40% in earnings from ongoing operations.
And earnings per share from ongoing operations increased by $0.01 despite lower earnings in our Supply business as well as the impact of accelerated share recognition from the 2010 and 2011 equity units.
This is a topic I'll discuss in more detail in a minute.
On a net income basis earnings from ongoing operations increased about 11% in the first quarter versus the same period a year ago.
Reported earnings were lower than last year mainly due to net mark-to-market adjustments on economic hedges in the Supply segment and foreign currency hedges we have in place on future U.K.
earnings.
Now let's turn to a discussion of our 2013 earnings forecast which you'll find on Slide 5.
We're updating our forecast to reflect the impact of accelerated share recognition from the equity units we issued in 2010 and 2011 in connection with our Kentucky and U.K.
acquisitions.
Our original guidance only reflected a partial year impact of the shares related to the 2010 equity units that settle midyear 2013.
Late in the first quarter we finalized our financing plans for the required remarketing of debt securities related to these equity units allowing us to hedge our interest rate exposure for both equity units at attractive rates rates that improved as we moved through the quarter.
Those activities caused us to reflect the full expected impact of common stock underlying both series of equity units in our calculation of earnings per share effective January 1 of this year.
The accelerated share recognition impacted first quarter ongoing earnings by $0.06 per share and is expected to impact full year 2013 ongoing earnings by $0.10 per share.
As a result we're adjusting our ongoing earnings forecast to $2.15 to $2.40 per share.
We also announced this morning a reduction in future equity needs of approximately $100 million per year.
We believe we can maintain our rate base growth plans and targeted credit metrics even in light of this equity reduction.
We clearly view both actions as positive for share owners.
I want to stress that our view of 2013 net income from ongoing operations remains unchanged since our original forecast and we feel very good about the forecast after delivering a very strong first quarter.
Paul will provide additional details on what I just covered in a few minutes.
But first let me highlight a few operational things on Slide 6.
Moving to Slide 6 our U.K.
subsidiary is preparing for a price control review under a new regulatory approach called RIIO.
WPD is finalizing detailed business plans for each of our 4 distribution networks and we'll submit those plans to Ofgem the regulator by July 1.
Our objective is to be selected for fast-track consideration by Ofgem which would enable us to conclude WPD's price control review early in 2014.
This would provide greater certainty in base revenues and financial incentives.
You can follow key developments and filings in this process on the Investor section of our website.
In January PPL Electric Utilities filed a request with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission for accelerated recovery of certain distribution system reliability improvements.
We expect the decision from the PUC later into spring with implementation of the DSIC cost recovery mechanism beginning July 1.
Also in Pennsylvania construction work continues on the Susquehanna-Roseland transmission line.
We've updated our cost estimate to $630 million based upon final contract costs.
In March PPL Electric Utilities began construction of the 500 KV Lackawanna Substation a critical component of the project.
We continue to expect the line will be completed and in service by the summer of 2015.
This project is a major part of our regulated infrastructure investment program that will improve regional electric reliability create jobs and provide a significant regional economic boost.
Moving to the sales volumes for the quarter on Slide 7 in Kentucky weather normalized sales increased about 1.5% for the first quarter of 2013 compared to 2012.
The increase was primarily driven by residential sales which were up more than 5% due to customer growth and improved economic conditions.
Industrial sales were slightly higher in the first quarter of 2013 as several large industrial customers in the chemical and automotive industries experienced increased volumes.
In Pennsylvania weather normalized sales declined slightly on increased energy efficiency energy conservation and a challenged industrial sector.
However we did see a 3% increase in residential sales over 2012 driven by increased customer usage and a small increase in customer count.
Turning to the competitive Supply segment on Slide 8 in April we began a scheduled refueling and maintenance outage on Unit 2 at our Susquehanna nuclear plant.
During this outage we will replace the turbine hose to improve airflow and reduce blade vibration.
In addition we are installing new blades to have stronger metallurgical properties.
We expect this to provide a long-term solution to the turbine blade issues that have affected Susquehanna operations over the last 2 years.
Later in the spring we plan to take Susquehanna Unit 1 out of service for the upgrades needed to address its turbine blade issues.
On a final nuclear note we had excellent performance from both Susquehanna units during the first quarter with 100% availability.
In April we also reached commercial operation on the upgraded Rainbow hydro electric plant.
The project increased generating capacity of the Rainbow plant by 70% and spurred considerable business activity in the Great Falls area of Montana.
In summary we're off to a very good start in 2013 with solid financial results that keep us firmly on track to meet ongoing earnings.
We continue to take proactive steps to efficiently finance our growth plans by locking in low interest rates and reducing our equity needs while still maintaining our targeted credit metrics.
We also remain very optimistic about our ability to execute on the major construction programs delivering solid results for customers and growing share owner value.
I look forward to your questions and now turn the call over to Paul Farr.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
I'll begin my remarks by providing some additional color on the EPS impact we are reporting in Q1 and that will impact our full-year 2013 EPS related to the 2010 and 2011 equity units.
The decline in interest rates we observed during the quarter incented us to finalize remarketing plans for the $2.1 billion debt component of the equity units.
After finalizing the plans we hedged about 90% of the treasury interest rate exposure and locked in what we consider attractive rates with a weighted average duration that is somewhat longer than we had originally planned.
The combination of our financing plan and the significant downward movement in interest rates since the equity units were originally issued caused us to change from the treasury stock method to if-converted accounting in calculating diluted earnings per share.
This change affects EPS beginning in the first quarter of this year and no prior periods are affected by the change in accounting.
Further the terms of the equity units have not changed and the actual issuance of the common stock still are scheduled to occur July 1 of this year and May 1 2014 for the 2010 and 2011 equity units respectively.
The accelerated share recognition only impacts the 2013  calculation of diluted earnings per share and our underlying net income forecast has not changed as Bill just indicated.
Let's move to Slide 9 where we show the combined impact year-on-year share count for the change in equity unit accounting and the decision not to issue common stock to fund our DRIP in management comp needs in 2013 and beyond.
We've outlined both our original projection of weighted average common shares outstanding as provided on the year-end 2012 earnings call and our revised estimates.
The net impact on 2013 is approximately 50 million of additional shares included in the weighted average share count.
Our original projection basically had a half year impact from the 2010 equity units that will settle midyear this year and no impact from the 2011 equity units due to the treasury method treatment we had used in the past.
You can see that there's no net impact on 2014 versus our prior projection and the outright increase over 2013 is primarily driven by a full year impact of the equity forward that settles in Q2 of this year.
The elimination of approximately $100 million per year in planned new share issuance clearly benefits 2015 and beyond as 10 million fewer shares are outstanding starting in 2015.
Let's now move to Slide 10 where we have provided an updated 2012 to 2013 earnings walk reflecting these changes.
The net $0.10 decline from our original 2013 EPS guidance is driven by $0.18 from the impact of additional shares for the if-converted treatment of the equity units partially offset by a $0.07 adjustment in the earnings per share calculation for the interest expense associated with the debt component of the equity units under if-converted accounting and a $0.01 benefit from the removal of new issuance for DRIP and management comp from our 2013 financing plan.
Again our forecast of underlying net income and the EPS forecast is unchanged.
Now let's move to Slide 11 to review our first quarter financial results.
PPL's first quarter earnings from ongoing operations increased over last year primarily driven by substantially improved earnings at all 3 of our regulated business segments.
This was partially offset by lower earnings in the Supply segment primarily due to lower hedged wholesale power prices.
Let's begin our segment review with the Kentucky regulated segment on Slide 12.
Kentucky earned $0.14 per share in the first quarter an $0.08 increase compared to last year.
This increase was primarily driven by higher margins due to new base rates that went into effect on January 1 higher retail electric volumes as a result of colder weather in 2013 and additional revenues from environmental investments.
O&amp;M was lower primarily due to the timing and scope of scheduled generation outages for 2013.
Partially offsetting these positive drivers were higher depreciation and dilution of $0.01 per share.
Moving to Slide 13 our U.K.
regulated segment earned $0.37 per share in the first quarter a $0.06 increase over last year.
This increase was due to higher utility revenues primarily driven by higher prices and lower U.K.
income taxes driven by a slightly lower effective tax rate.
These positive earnings drivers were partially offset by higher O&amp;M and dilution of $0.04 per share.
Turning now to Slide 14 our Pennsylvania regulated segment earned $0.10 per share in the quarter a $0.04 increase compared to last year.
This increase was the result of higher delivery margins primarily due to new rates that went into effect on January 1 and higher sales volumes due to mild weather in 2012 lower O&amp;M and lower interest charges.
These positive earnings drivers were partially offset by dilution of $0.01 per share.
Moving to Slide 15 our Supply segment earned $0.11 per share in the first quarter a decrease of $0.16 compared to last year.
This decrease was primarily the net result of lower Eastern energy margins driven by lower baseload energy prices partially offset by increased baseload unit availability higher capacity prices and higher margins on intermediate and peaking units.
Lower Western energy margins primarily due to lower wholesale energy prices higher depreciation higher income taxes primarily due to a 2012 state tax rate adjustment and dilution of $0.01 per share.
These negative drivers were partially offset by lower O&amp;M due to lower outage costs.
That completes the more detailed financial overview and I'll now turn the call back over to Bill for the Q&amp;A period.
Thanks Paul.
Operator we're ready for questions please.
[Operator Instructions]  Your first question comes from the line of Dan Eggers with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just on the Supply side of the business can we maybe talk kind of beyond 2014? I know on the last call you guys suggested that '14 represent the trough.
But can you maybe shed the light on where hedging is right now for '15 and beyond and maybe kind of what pricing trends you're seeing in those numbers to give confidence to a better outlook there? Sure.
I'll make a couple of comments then I'll turn it over to Dave DeCampli who's President of our Supply business.
Clearly 2014 prices and '15 have improved over the last few months along with heat [ph] rates kind of.
But I think overall our view of the 4 power fundamentals remains pretty much as it has been which was we continue to see upside of $3 to $5 per megawatt hour in the '15 '16 timeframe mostly driven by MATS compliance cost as well as retirements.
They're expected to begin in that type of timeframe.
I think overall we continue to see the strength.
It's shown itself a little bit here in the quarter but I don't think quarterly movements are all that indicative per se.
I think we'd still rely predominantly on our fundamental views.
With that being said Dave do you want to provide any other color commentary? Well sure.
Dan on the hedging strategy our target range for 2015 is to be between 0% and 30% hedged.
We're sitting between 10% and 20% right now.
We've benefit -- we're on the lower end of that actually.
So that's where we sit today.
Bill's comments on forward prices we're still viewing the market as being having $3 to $5 upside in it for 2015 at this point.
That's what our fundamentals are dictating.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just with RPM closing in what are your expectations as you guys look out at the market today? Now all the parameters are out now.
So we are viewing that as -- so we're sticking to our assumption that it will come in lower than the previous auction.
The parameters have not yielded any material changes in our opinion on that so we're seeing that 16 17 auction being a bit lower than the previous 1.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess Bill can you just share your thoughts on dividend policy? With the -- you're going to cut back on the DRIP and that sort of thing the decision to raise less equity rather than maybe more of that money toward a dividend increase on a sustainable basis? Dan I really don't think that decision has any impact on our ability to grow the dividend.
I think we're still very comfortable with growing the dividend as we grow the Regulated segment earnings.
Research Division</strong> So when do you guys expect to -- if you sit down with the board and talked about the strategy of when you revisit what is the next point [ph]  where that discussion comes up and what do you think the board needs to see? Is there a level of confidence in the U.K.
outlook with the RIIO process that has to get done before they feel like the growth trajectory is fully confident to cement in the dividend? Yes Dan this is Paul.
Yes we normally -- the board normally entertains the annual dividend adjustment early in the year.
So we just went through that process in the January-type timeframe for the April 1 increase and everybody's kind of seen that.
What we have said is there are large commitments to growth from a regulated rate base perspective.
And so as we look forward as Bill indicated I wouldn't look at the $100 million new issuance reduction as impacting what we can do from a dividend perspective.
It's really the capital call on the capital that we got and our ability to massage the balance sheet.
So I would still expect that we'd be able to deliver modest dividend increases as we make our way through the meatiest part of the CapEx rate base growth plan primarily in transmission in Pennsylvania and the environmental investments in Kentucky.
Those -- as you can see on our 5-year CapEx slide that's in the deck those really start to trail off after the '13- '14- '15-type timeframe and that would provide more flexibility starting in '16 and beyond as it relates to the dividends.
Your next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So first quick question here and I apologize.
What are the projected new average share counts if you will especially for '13 here? Has that changed? Or I imagine it has obviously.
Yes Julien this is Paul.
There is a -- right in front of my comments in the deck on Page...
Slide 9 I think.
Slide 9.
There's -- we go from 615 million weighted average for '13 to 665 million.
2014 is unchanged 670 million the old [ph] forecast 670 million revised.
And for 2015 the original was 680 million shares and now it's down to 670 million shares.
So really after the -- you get the full weighted average effects from the forward that settled in Q2 there's no change in the share count going forward.
Research Division</strong> And I presume the '15 changes that's just because of the lower equity issuance comments earlier? That's correct.
That's the cumulative effect of basically 300 million in lower issuances 100 million each of '13 '14 and '15.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Second question here.
In RIIO you alluded to a potential Fast-Track.
Is this -- is there any potential for the individual utilities to get Fast-Tracked or would this be an all-or-nothing kind of thing? It would be the individual DNOs would each have the opportunity to be Fast-Tracked.
So conceivably and hopefully we can have all 4 of the DNOs Fast-Tracked.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then moving back to the Supply segment for a quick second.
You alluded to your fundamental view on upside but obviously DAR [ph] expense have really improved here.
What is your view on coal? Obviously you haven't locked in too much from what I can tell.
How do you think about those pricing trends from here? Sure.
Dave do you want to take a shot at that? I would say overall if I look at where the coal market has been it's been relatively soft here in the short term.
I would expect with the retirements it's going to continue to be somewhat challenged then.
And so we have not taken a lot of steps to hedge forward beyond '14.
I mean we're still pretty heavily hedged in '13 and '14.
But I think we're waiting to see how things settle out on the forward coal price side.
But I wouldn't expect that our forward view on coal markets would have changed that much.
I haven't looked at it lately but I think we're pretty much in the same ballpark as where we were previously.
Yes and in the shortest term we've seen material improvements within the quarter from a dispatch perspective on both coal-fired and our combined cycle units.
So we saw strong performance at Susquehanna about a 20% increase in capacity factors from coal and very strong performance from the gas units as well.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a little nuance here.
When you talk about '14 being the trough is that really based on your market view or your fundamental view? Well right now because we're well over 60% hedged in 2014 so it's a combination in '14 of where we are already hedged as well as our kind of mark-to-market view of where the forwards are today.
When you get out to '15 I think the mark-to-market is less relevant for us and we really switch over -- begin switching over in '15 to more of a fundamental view.
Research Division</strong> But still on a mark-to-market basis you would still be higher at '15 versus '14 correct? I think it will be closer to flat '14 to '15 if you looked on a mark-to-market only basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Neel Mitra with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question on the U.K.
In your projections you still use exchange rate of $1.58 per pound.
That's obviously been moving around a little bit.
What are you embedding kind of in '15 and beyond for the exchange rate? And then more philosophically how do you look at hedging that? So from a forward perspective our business -- our internal 5-year business plan would use a relatively constant rate of that $1.58.
We are about 90% hedged in 2013 earnings and 60% to 70% hedged on next year's earnings and we started to layer some hedges in the following year.
That's our normal 3-year approach to things very similar again to the way that we hedge the generation from the plants.
So I'd expect that we continue on that.
I would say that our hedges for both '13 and '14 are slightly ahead of that $1.58 number.
'15 and beyond is a little bit down off of plan but nothing material at this point.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then moving to the Supply side the $3 to $5 uplift versus the forwards in '15 and beyond how do you look at all those new builds that are being announced in -- or in Pennsylvania on top of the Marcellus? And what's your view on the probability that those get built and how they would actually impact the forward curve? Sure.
Well I think first off it will be interesting to see if they clear in the capacity market auction firstly.
And I think that will dictate for some of those units if they move forward or not.
I think secondly when we look at the economics of new builds we still can't get there in terms of the numbers.
So I think you have to have a pretty aggressive forward view on a significant recovery in power prices and a pretty good view on capacity prices to really clear what we think would be reasonable hurdle rates.
But that's PPL's view.
So we're continuing to follow that we continue to follow the PJM rule changes that we believe are necessary to make sure that all generation is being bid in on a level playing field and meaning no subsidies.
So we're continuing to follow that very closely.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one last quick question.
Has your view on basis changed? Is it still flat going out or we've seen some basis moves this quarter obviously.
What are your thoughts on that? For 2013 we have built into our plan about $1 negative basis for our units.
I get -- I think we expect that to continue until a lot of the transmission work in PJM gets done which would really take us out to the 2015 timeframe.
And then we would expect some improvement on a go-forward basis from there.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to clarify what drove the accounting change to or from the treasury method? A combination of the types of securities that we actually ultimately plan to issue to call it refinance the remarketing or to do the remarketing and the decline in interest rates.
But the test that we have to use for accounting measurement purposes keep us in a relatively tight band of net present value of cash flows and the combination of the decline in interest rates outright across all tenors plus the tenors we selected ended up having us breach those bands and not let us defend them and pushed us into having to use if-converted accounting.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what drove your ability to take $100 million of equities? Did you just -- blocking and tackling and a little finer detail work on the credit metrics? That's correct.
Yes we're getting ready to start our annual business signing process for the year and the treasury and business planning team looked at the numbers and we felt good about our ability to be able to remain strong FFO metrics and be able to accomplish the growth plan without the equity.
And so as we've kind of been telling you guys for at least a couple of years we're very not just committed to that but incented to try to reduce that because we don't think that the share price reflects full fundamental value of the generation.
So again every time we were out needing to issue shares with that value not reflected it was diluting the value that we think will show up for the current share base.
And so we've been doing everything we can to try to whittle that issuance down.
We started at 300 we moved to 100 and now we've been able to eliminate it in full.
Research Division</strong> But was it a change in the fundamental outlook? I mean did you see FFO improving or was it a combination of things? No I think it's just our ability to manage other operating cash flow line items to be able to accomplish similar objectives in FFO.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And lastly any update on whether you consider the Western assets still to be core? As we've said in the past we don't comment on those types of activities so we won't start today.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Just a question.
First a detailed question on Supply.
The -- it looked like your expected generation in '13 is down like 1.3 million megawatt hours versus year-end plan for baseload? Yes that's correct.
LLC</strong> What's driving that? Dave? Yes.
Primarily a couple of forced outages which were minor but the primary drivers the transmission construction activity and economics have pushed a couple of our coal plants offline a little bit more than we expected in the first quarter.
And that is the difference.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So that already happened in the first quarter? That's correct yes.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And with respect to -- if I recall you guys did a lot of like option hedging generally in your collars? We have in the past yes...
LLC</strong> Is that -- I guess did prices move enough that you're -- it doesn't look like you're really -- your hedge price has really moved.
Is that because prices didn't move enough within the collars or they did move and it just kind of gets averaged -- rounded out? I think it's really probably a combination of both depending on when we put those collars in place Steve.
But yes I think generally speaking that's the case.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just -- I know you can't comment on the Montana assets directly but just in thinking -- in the update on the equity issuance plans that you gave today did that incorporate any view of potential strategic action there or is that just status quo as you are? As status quo as we are that's really just fine-tuning our financing plan and looking to be as effective and efficient on the balance sheet as we possibly can.
And so just trying to be proactive it's not embedded anything new on the strategic front into those forward numbers.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then one last quick question.
Just the view that RPM is going to be down is that just -- could you just give a little more color why you think that's the case? Is it just new generation MISO generation what are the drivers? I think there's probably multiple drivers but I think the ones that kind of I could tick off my head and then Dave can comment would be probably a lower demand for a while than we had previously expected overall; a little bit more supply coming in the stack and I think possibly a little less retirements in that timeframe.
But I think those would be the drivers.
And DSM continues to be I think a factor as we get to the saturation point probably here in this next auction.
But I think it's still a factor in this auction.
So those would be the drivers.
Plus we would expect some participation from price responsive demand recently approved by FERC.
And we -- for modeling purposes here we're assuming a range of somewhere between $136 and $148.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just some -- and this may be for Paul some broader questions regarding the balance sheet capitalization ratios and cash flows.
Once the converts convert meaning the actual transactions happen so the second one coming in May of 2014 what do you think that does to your debt to cap? Meaning right now your total debt to cap is around 60% but how do you think about what your capitalization ratios will be once the conversions play out? Michael I don't focus as much on capitalization at corp.
Clearly from the perspective of the cap ratio that the utilities the 65% that's wrapped [ph] in the U.K the 51% to 52% in PA the -- a little over 53% in Kentucky in both opcos none of those get changed by the court decision on the share issuance or by the converts converting.
When that additional cash shows up we will as we said in the past defease off a bit of debt that's maturing at Supply.
But a substantial amount of that will go into EU and into LKE for the 2 operating companies in Kentucky to be able to finance the growth plan.
So from a corporate FFO metric change perspective if you will I don't see that.
We got the equity credit really upfront in those.
This is just now fully showing up on the GAAP balance sheet.
So I -- I don't think if I'm -- sorry if I'm not answering your questioning perfectly but we don't really think about it from a capitalization perspective at corp.
We concern ourselves most with the FFO metrics at the subsidiary and then FFO consolidated obviously for S&amp;P.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And when we think longer-term meaning past 2014 like if I look at your CapEx slide in you earnings deck today so CapEx in '15 is $1 billion less than 2013.
Right.
Research Division</strong> And your depreciation I assume will start making a sizable step-up after -- I mean you'll be putting a lot of this CapEx in the service and therefore D&amp;A will be up.
So let's say the swing is $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion range.
That is a good amount of the incremental capital that you're currently deploying that will now turn into cash flow available to you.
How do you think about sources and uses of that cash flow over time really beginning in 2015 2016 timeframe? Yes that was the -- that goes back to the comment that I made about the dividend question earlier and that Bill made about the dividend question earlier in that -- and your relative order of magnitude of the math is correct.
We have really both of the sets of domestic utilities going from huge capital consumers [ph] to -- at least in the instance of Kentucky Greg will still be consuming capital in his distribution rate base reliability plan.
But we go from -- they go from relatively large consumers to either being flat or positive from a cash flow perspective.
That's what creates that capability to look at the dividends more not aggressively but more call it more constructively more -- increase it at a higher rate than we're likely going to be able to over the next several years.
That's really where that cash flow starts to show up after we get through the meatiest part of the CapEx growth plan.
Research Division</strong> But I mean that's a sizable swing in cash $1 billion plus swing? Are you also planning significant de-leveraging either at the holdco or at Supply using some of that incremental free cash flow? Yes I think it depends upon what we see as our investment alternatives at that point in the regulated utilities.
Yes I guess we see a capability potentially in the future to have additional maybe calls on the capital.
But to the extent that it's surplus to the needs I would expect the capability to do a combination of de-leveraging and stock buybacks to be able to support the balance sheet and the targeted credit metrics that we have today.
So if we can find things to invest in that provide a greater return than returning the capital or shrinking the balance sheet a bit we'll do that.
And if not we'll return it either through bigger dividend increases or buybacks.
Research Division</strong> Meaning come 2015 2016 you could actually be in a position to shrink the equity component of the balance sheet? It's really in the '16-type timeframe and forward correct.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> So when I look at the -- at Slide 7 of your handout you guys posted a pretty strong weather normalized sales growth in Kentucky.
And not so good in Pennsylvania but when I compare that to your commentary from the fourth quarter call it looks like you're ahead of what you would've expected in Kentucky but sort of on plan in Pennsylvania because you said in the fourth quarter call you were looking at a decrease of about 0.5% year-over-year on a volume basis in Pennsylvania growth of a little under 1% in Kentucky.
So can you go through in more granular detail what's driving outperformance or underperformance versus your plan in each segment? Sure.
I will start with Vic in Kentucky provide a little bit of commentary.
Kentucky you see the residential up 5.2% weather normalized.
And I think economic conditions in Kentucky are improving slowly but surely.
Our unemployment is down our new housing starts '12 over '11 were up 16%.
And I'm pleased to say in the first quarter of 2013 they were up 12%.
So we're starting to see the better housing starts housing prices are going up unemployment is coming down.
And there might even be some spillover from our industrial growth because we're getting more reinvestment now in the Commonwealth.
You may have heard Toyota has -- is going to put some more money in there.
General Electric has just opened another line.
Ford is running at full capacity now.
So there were spinoffs from the industrial as well.
There are jobs there are ancillary businesses that are deploying.
So -- from -- and I would say the fourth quarter and now the first quarter have been just very good to us.
And so we have some reasonable optimism that the economy in Kentucky is progressing nicely.
I should point out though that in the past Kentucky has kind of -- it hasn't come down as quickly as the rest of the nation and generally it doesn't go up.
It's a little more steady as you go and I suspect we're seeing that here now kind of coming back slowly but steadily particularly on the industrial side.
And we're getting some benefits now from unemployment decreases and new housing starts on the residential side.
Research Division</strong> But not to debate you here live but what you're showing here in the first quarter is not slow and steady it's double your expectation for the year.
I'll have a better view on this after the third quarter if it continues Greg.
How does that sound? Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
Greg any comments from Pennsylvania? Yes just on Pennsylvania I'd say there's -- on the residential side we are I'd say outperforming.
And what we're seeing really the first time fairly [indiscernible] average use per customer has actually increased.
So some nice trends on the growth there.
On the small C&amp;I and industrial side I think the economy is still hurting us there.
And that's why we're a little bit underplan on those areas.
Research Division</strong> You were down 7.8% in the first quarter on industrial.
Is that like one big customer that went out or a series of things? Is that like a lumpy item or is that indicative of a trend? Well I guess similar to what Vic said we're going to be taking a look at that over the next quarter.
I don't think that'll continue but we'll have to see.
Your next question comes from the line of Raymond Leung with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Greg actually asked my question on the sales growth but could we talk a little bit about your financing plans? You show a pretty large negative free cash.
Can you sort of elaborate on your thoughts on the remarketing and equity units and how you will fill in the blanks on the financing plans? Yes Ray the -- when you're looking at the charts that I think you're referring to in the cash flow chart in the back we've got $1.150 billion that obviously shows up in the second quarter to early third quarter as new cash flow.
We've got the equity forward that settled in the second quarter which is -- it was originally $250 million.
We actually net settled about $50 million of that to handle the DRIP and the management comp that actually went out in the first quarter.
But that shows up as new cash flow and then the retained earnings from the company net is where the equity sources of cash come from to finance the utilities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any thoughts on debt financings? You have the remarketing we know and then I know you did hybrid earlier this year.
But what are you thinking for the balance to cover up the shortfall? I would expect that we're doing -- we'd be doing a significant number of first mortgage bonds at LG&amp;E and KU.
We've got one planned for Greg's team as well at Electric Utilities.
Again as they ratably grow their balance sheet they'll be financing at those 53% and 51% 51.5% equity ratios and the balance comes from new debt issuance.
I think we have one issuance planned later in the year for Supply like $300 million or $400 million.
But that would be it other than again all of that cash showing up midyear from the converts converting and this equity forward settlement that happened in Q2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's -- on terms of Supply financing that's somewhat new.
Is that sort of impartial refinancing that 750 maturity? A big chunk of that will actually get absorbed by or defeased off by $1.150 billion that shows up.
So the issuance is right around I think $300 million for later this year in Supply.
It's not all that significant.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just a lot of questions have been answered but just back to sort of the RPM.
I guess the MOPR decision on the revisions you don't expect that one way or the other at this point in time to have an impact on the auction results is that right? Yes Paul we're not expecting that.
As every day ticks by it's less likely.
So the range the sensitivity range I mentioned earlier is not inclusive of that outcome.
Okay.
And if it were to happen today it still wouldn't be able to impact it.
Is that the way to think about it? Or are you hearing more from -- I'm just trying to get some sense on that I'm sorry.
No I think you have it right.
Okay.
And then in terms of -- there was a mention of price responsive demand having impact on the RPM Auction.
And I was wondering I think of that as more of an energy product if I'm looking at the same thing you are.
Why does it have an impact on the RPM auction? If you could just help me out with that.
Well it's capped for the BRA but we think that it would actually lower the demand in the auction which would tend to lower the clearing price.
So it would have an effect on the demand.
Okay.
So you think that price responsive demand will lower the demand from -- in terms of the RR curve or how should we think of that? Maybe I'll follow up after offline.
Yes that -- why don't we do that? It's a pretty technical type of question so let's go...
Do you see price response demand since it's sort of an energy thing do you see that -- this year versus last year any changes you see with respect to that just your outlook or expectation? No not really.
Not from last year to this year Paul.
Your next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan with Visium.
I just wanted to say congratulations and Paul I really like this move of getting the dilution out of the way and clearing it for the stockholders.
I think it provides a good trajectory for growth going forward.
And I think that's a brilliant move thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Goldenberg with Luminus Management.
LLC</strong> My questions have been asked and answered.
We have no further questions.
Okay.
Thanks operator and thanks everyone for joining us on the call.
We'll talk to you on the second quarter earnings call.
Thanks.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the PPL Corporation Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Joe Bergstein Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the PPL conference call on second quarter results and our general business outlook.
We are providing slides to this presentation on our website at www.pplweb.com.
Any statements made in this presentation about future operating results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
A discussion of factors that could cause actual results or events to differ is contained in the appendix to this presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Spence PPL Chairman President and CEO.
Thank you Joe and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on the call today.
As is our normal practice joining me on today's call is Paul Farr PPL's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer as well as the presidents of our 4 business segments.
Following my overview remarks on earnings and operations Paul will review the financial results in more detail.
Today we're reporting strong earnings for both the second quarter and through the first 6 months of the year.
Our quarter-to-date and year-to-date earnings from ongoing operations were driven by strong performance from our regulated utility businesses in Kentucky Pennsylvania and United Kingdom.
Turning to Slide 4.
Second quarter reported earnings per share were $0.63 up from $0.46 in the same quarter of 2012.
Earnings from ongoing operations for the quarter were $0.49 per share compared with $0.51 per share in the same period last year.
Earnings from ongoing operations on a per-share basis are slightly lower than 1 year ago because of the accelerated share recognition of the 2010 and 2011 equity units.
That's a topic we discussed in detail on our last quarterly call.
For the first year -- half of the year our reported earnings were $1.28 per share compared with $1.39 per share in the first 6 months of 2012.
Ongoing earnings were $1.20 per share for the first half of the year versus $1.21 per share last year.
Our strong performance has enabled us to increase the midpoint of our 2013 ongoing earnings forecast to $2.32 per share from the previous midpoint of $2.27 per share.
On Slide 5 we provided updated forecasts for each of our segments.
Specifically we're increasing the earnings forecast from our U.K.
Regulated segment to $1.28 per share based on its strong performance year-to-date.
We're slightly decreasing the Supply segment forecast to $0.34 per share due to various items including outage schedules for some of the generating stations.
Let's move to Slide 6 for a brief operational overview.
As we explained on our July 1 analyst call WPD has submitted 8-year business plans for our 4 electric distribution networks in England and Wales as part of the RIIO process.
In this process we're expecting fast-track treatment which would provide us a number of benefits including early certainty regarding the outcome and additional revenue equivalent to 2.5% of total annual baseline expenditures.
The regulator Ofgem plans to make an initial determination on which companies could be fast tracked in November.
It is scheduled to publish a final determination on the fast-track companies in March of 2014.
You can follow developments regarding this process on the Investors section of our website.
In an important development in Pennsylvania the state public utility commission approved PPL Electric Utilities' request for accelerated recovery of certain distribution system reliability improvements.
The Pennsylvania PUC had approved the company's 5-year $700 million long-term infrastructure improvement plan in January.
The cost recovery mechanism will be adjusted quarterly providing more timely recovery of necessary system improvement expenditures.
Construction work is continuing on Susquehanna-Roseland transmission line.
We expect to complete the line and be in service by the summer of 2015.
Also on the Pennsylvania transmission front we're increasing our capital spending plan for our Northeast/Pocono Reliability project.
The increased cost is primarily related to higher material and labor cost and additional scope due to revised construction standards.
Moving to Slide 7.
You'll see that weather-normalized second quarter sales in Pennsylvania increased by about 1.5% over the same period 1 year ago.
The Pennsylvania increase was driven by a 4.5% increase in industrial sales due to increased activity and customer billing adjustments from the first quarter.
Commercial sales in Pennsylvania were flat in the second quarter and residential sales increased by 1.3%.
In Kentucky weather-normalized industrial sales were up 2.8% because of industrial customer expansions and increased production levels at certain of our customers' facilities.
There were decreases however of 3.8% in the residential category and 5.5% among commercial customers influenced by regional economic conditions.
On a 12-month trailing basis weather-normalized sales are up about 0.5% in Kentucky and down just slightly in Pennsylvania.
Turning to Slide 8.
We've completed outages on both units at the Susquehanna plant as we address turbine issues that have affected plant operations over the past 2 years.
The units are currently running at normal levels and we continue to monitor and evaluate the turbine performance data since our outages were completed.
We have not observed any blade cracking thus far.
Turning to the Western fleet.
As you may have seen we issued an 8-K in July providing information on repairs that we're making to the Colstrip 4 generator in Montana.
While we expect repairs to take at least 6 months the estimated total pretax economic impact is between $5 million and $10 million and will not be material to the company.
In summary we're pleased with our year-to-date results and feel good about our ability to deliver strong results for the full year.
We're effectively managing major construction projects in Kentucky and Pennsylvania and have completed the Rainbow hydroelectric expansion project in Montana.
We have submitted excellent 8-year business plans in the U.K.
with the goal of receiving fast-track treatment under RIIO.
And we're continuing to earn very high marks for customer service.
In the past quarter our competitive energy supplier PPL EnergyPlus and our Pennsylvania delivery company each earned J.D.
Power awards for customer satisfaction.
In total PPL companies in Pennsylvania and Kentucky have earned 36 J.D.
Power awards far more than any other company in our sector.
And our U.K.
electric distribution networks hold 4 of the top 5 rankings in the country for quality of customer service.
Our proven ability to execute on our plans and deliver superior service to our customers gives us every reason to be optimistic about our prospects for growing value for our shareowners.
I look forward to your questions and now I'm going to turn the call over to Paul Farr.
Paul? Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
Let's move to Slide 9.
PPL's second quarter earnings from ongoing operations increased over last year driven by improved earnings at all 3 regulated segments.
The Supply segment experienced an earnings decline as expected primarily due to lower hedged wholesale power prices.
Per-share earnings from ongoing operations declined slightly in the second quarter due to more than 80 million additional shares being included in our share count year-over-year which equated to an impact of $0.04 per share for the period.
On the first quarter call we discussed at length the change to if-converted accounting for the shares to be issued under the convert securities.
Let's start the segment review with Kentucky results on Slide 10.
Kentucky earned $0.08 per share in the second quarter a $0.01 increase compared to last year.
This increase was driven primarily by higher margins due to new base rates that went into effect January 1 of this year partially offset by lower volumes driven by more temperate weather this year.
Moving to Slide 11.
Our U.K.
Regulated segment earned $0.35 per share in the second quarter a $0.04 increase over last year.
This increase was due to higher utility revenues primarily driven by the April 1 2013 price increase and higher volumes due to weather.
These positive earnings drivers were partially offset by higher depreciation higher income taxes and other expense which was primarily driven by exchange rates and dilution of $0.03 per share.
Turning to Slide 12.
Our Pennsylvania Regulated segment earned $0.07 per share in the quarter a $0.02 increase compared to last year.
This increase was the result of higher delivery margins primarily due to new rates that went into effect January 1 this year and increased transmission investment lower O&amp;M and dilution of $0.01 per share.
Moving now to Slide 13.
Our Supply segment earned $0.01 per share in the second quarter a decrease of $0.07 compared to last year.
This decrease was primarily the net result of lower Eastern energy margins driven by lower baseload energy prices partially offset by higher capacity prices and increased baseload unit availability lower Western energy margins primarily due to lower wholesale energy prices and higher depreciation.
These negative drivers were partially offset by lower O&amp;M at Susquehanna and lower outage costs at the Eastern fossil and hydroelectric plants.
That completes the more detailed financial overview and I'll now turn the call back over to Bill for the Q&amp;A period.
Okay operator we're ready for the questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Dan Eggers at Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First question.
The -- when I look at the weather-normalized load trends obviously there were some signs of good and not so good in the second quarter but the year trends are not as bad as we've seen elsewhere.
When you guys kind of dig further into the data and you look at usage trends are you seeing kind of structural improvements once you kind of parse away weather issues? And where do you see bright spots and concerns right now? Sure.
I would say Dan overall it's a slightly better situation than we've seen probably seen over the last few years.
So there is some improvement when you parse through all the data.
Having said that I think our long-term view is still that that growth would be somewhat less than 1% on a longer-term run rate based on some of the energy efficiency programs that are out there and just customer usage as we've seen it through the past cycles over the past 5 years.
So I can ask the folks to comment more specifically and maybe provide a little bit more color.
But Vic why don't you talk a little bit about Kentucky and what you're seeing there? Well our industrial load continues to grow and reinvestment is being made.
So we have -- and as you can tell from the statistics our industrial load is growing nicely.
Where we're seeing some issues is in the commercial side which really is being affected by the economy.
And I do think there are some efficiency gains in our residential customers.
But I have to tell you that our housing starts were up materially year-over-year '11.
Total of '11 was about 16% and year-to-date we're probably 18% higher than we were last year.
So we're starting to see a little bit of momentum now probably driven by our unemployment which is down.
So I think by and large we are okay.
It's not robust but I think we're moving smartly ahead and driven by our industrial load frankly.
Craig? Yes so in Pennsylvania I would say that year-to-year this year compared to last year we'll probably be almost flat.
And then our long term we're looking at about 0.5% CAGR.
So we don't see too much of a big opportunity for load growth in our area.
What we're seeing by rate class is that we're starting to see some growth in the residential market.
I believe that's due to starting Construction kind of like what Vic said.
Our small C&amp;I has been relatively flat and the large C&amp;I is down year-to-year about 1%.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And...
Yes.
Research Division</strong> I guess just can we get to maybe Bill turn the conversation to Supply.
With power prices down again this quarter with RPM results pretty disappointing out in '16 and '17 are you guys rethinking where you expect trough to come out from an earnings perspective on Supply? And kind of where you think that business is going to bottom out given what you know today? Well our focus remains as it has been which is to maintain a slightly positive to flat earnings profile for the Supply business meaning not -- the target is to not allow to go negative from an EPS perspective.
That has not changed.
We certainly understand the challenges the competitive generation sector faces and the expectations on declining profitability.
Because of the strong growth in the utility businesses we're obviously able to offset a lot of the declines that we've seen in the supply and we still believe that the 2014 '15 time period is likely to be the trough assuming that market conditions don't worsen.
The management team as you know has had a clear track record in our view of insightful analysis of the -- those challenges and we've taken decisive actions to create and defend shareowner value over the years.
We do think there's inherent value in the Supply business and we're very focused on our shareholders getting the benefit of that value.
Research Division</strong> And I guess one last question just kind of on the U.K.
tax rates coming back in.
Is there -- with this court decision is there any more structure where it's going to run at a lower repatriated rate than would have expected? Or is this kind of unique to the period and will catch up? Are you referencing the windfall profits tax Dan? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
No that's a -- it came through as a special item of credit in the period and has no effect on ongoing repatriated tax expense.
Our next question comes from Kit Konolige at BGC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up a little at the Supply business.
I wonder if you could give us some color on what your guys thought of the capacity auction in May.
What they saw as drivers there if there are any structural things that you'd like to see changed et cetera.
Sure.
I'll comment first and then -- and ask Dave DeCampli to provide a little bit more color.
Overall it came out a little lower than we had expected.
If you'll recall on our last earnings call we indicated that we expected it to come in slightly lower than the previous auction.
It came in a little lower than that.
So fundamentally pretty much in line with our expectations again just a little bit lower.
As we've kind of parsed through the results from the last auction Dave probably has some comments he'd like to make on what our insights were there.
Dave? Yes thanks Bill.
Can I -- I'd say that in the end when we look back we'd say the pricing that came out of the auction was rational given flat demand growth and increases in supply from both imports and new generation that were a little bit of a surprise.
And going forward it's just difficult for us to model since we have such limited transparency in this process with issues like the imports without firm transmission and moreover [ph] seeming to continually be changing.
So anything -- absent anything else to move capacity prices we expect they may be somewhere in the same general area the next auction around.
We'd like to see some progress in PJM's intent or plans to reform their limits and speculative arbitrage between the BRA and the incremental auctions as well.
So we're hoping and supporting in the stakeholder process some of these changes as we go forward.
Okay Thanks Dave.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one other question on the RIIO process.
It sounds like you're expecting that all 4 of your units would get fast-track treatment.
Is that a fair read of your comments? Or would you not want to go that far? No I think that's correct Kit.
When we look at the performances of those businesses in the U.K.
they're clearly the superior performers in that structure.
And we think if anyone deserves to be fast tracked it would be our 4 distribution companies.
Our next question comes from Brian Chin at Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up question on the fast track.
For the Draft Determination in November how final is this determination? Is there any sort of precedent for Ofgem changing its view from draft to final in prior deliberations? And in the event we don't get fast-track status in the draft versions what processes can we follow to help change that draft view towards a better finalized view? Sure.
I'll ask Rick Klingensmith President of our Global Business to respond to that question.
The initial determination that Ofgem will make in the November time frame in identifying the potential companies that could be fast tracked is one that they will then follow through with that process so that if you do not make the list of a potential to be fast tracked in that November consultation then there is not a chance for you to revise your business plan and then try to influence Ofgem in a way to get your company on that list to be fast tracked.
So they will identify those business plans that they believe are well justified and will continue through their evaluations till the March time frame where they will then either accept all the companies that they had initially determined could be fast tracked or even narrow that list down a bit when their final determination comes out in March.
Research Division</strong> Understood very clear.
And then if I could just ask one separate question on Supply.
We've seen some of your peers talk about how the ARR and FTR issues how pricing of that has been dislocated from real-time congestion issues.
Are you guys seeing any similar issues this year on ARR and FTR dislocations versus congestion? Dave why don't you take that question? Sure.
We've seen that approaching Brian.
And from a kind of a strategy point of view we've significantly reduced our utilization of FTRs as a hedge because of the lack of any real resolution around the whole underfunding issue that's going on with those.
So we backed all that into our plan.
And for us that's all delivering in accordance to plan this year.
So it's disappointing and we certainly hope that PJM would come up with a suitable solution so we can resume in earnest these -- the use of these tools as an effective way to mitigate basis risk.
Our next question comes from Paul Patterson at Glenrock.
Just some quick things.
First of all I'm sorry I missed in Kentucky what the environmental -- I'm sorry the economic conditions were that led to the decrease in commercial and residential.
Go ahead Vic.
This is Vic Staffieri.
We have -- it's just the natural economy.
We have not seen a comeback in our commercial.
An offsetting impact of some efficiency gains in our hospitals and educational institutions.
So that's where we're seeing some of the runoff in our commercial.
And I'll tell you it's really pure economics and I think there are some efficiencies going on in the commercial sector.
We have gotten as I said before progress in our industrial sector.
We are getting reinvestment by Toyota by Ford by General Electric and that is helping our employment picture.
And it should spill over eventually to our residential and ultimately our commercial customers but it's going to take some time.
Okay.
So it sounds like it's pretty good.
It just sounds like for some reason we are just seeing decreases in that area that are sort of because they get efficiencies.
Is that the way to think about it? I would say there's a lot of efficiency going on.
When you look at our largest commercial customers they are doing a pretty good job in getting more efficient and making the investments that make sense.
You can see it in our hospitals as I say.
You see it in some of our educational institutions.
And then of course you're seeing the economic impact spending retail spending on some of the malls and those kind of commercial customers.
But Kentucky's economy never really busted and never really boomed.
And so we've been steady as you go.
Housing starts as I indicated earlier are up.
They've been up for 2 years now after a real period of low.
So I have some reason -- some cautious optimism that we're on the path to recovery but it's not as robust as -- obviously as we'd like.
Okay.
And then on Slide 21 it looks to me like the projected regulated rate base growth is up a couple -- like 7.9 versus 7.7.
Just anything in particular there? Or just sort of what's going on? Sure.
I think Paul has the detail on that.
Yes Paul we just -- we updated that slide to reflect RAV pursuant to the RIIO filing that we did on July 1.
And so you'll see the numbers in green on the bottom a little bit more robust.
So that's really effectively the only change that we made.
We're still in the throes of our normal business planning process and so we'd expect -- and I don't expect there would be any material changes but modest changes as we get through that.
That's probably in Q3 or in the year-end call.
Okay.
And then the U.K.
has had some headlines not really associated with distribution as -- at least as I read it but more or less associated with the wholesale market and issues of transparency and issues of cost.
And there was a report from Parliament and what-have-you.
Is there any concern that that might in some way sort of spill over into the distribution regulatory setup if you follow me? I mean is there -- I mean I'm sure you guys are familiar with it.
Just any thoughts about how -- or just how that may or may not relate to you guys? We are familiar with it.
And thus far we don't see any risk of a spillover.
I think the distribution side is very transparent with the process that the U.K.
regulator has there.
And thus far that has not even been raised in any publications or any discussions we've seen thus far.
So I don't think it will have an impact at all.
Okay great.
And then just finally trading.
What was the numbers for this year? I mean what was the contribution this year this quarter -- 6 months and yes year-to-date and for the quarter? And just any outlook with [indiscernible] to that? I don't have the year-to-date figure in front of me but our plan for this year is about $50 million in total which is similar to last year's plan.
Our next question comes from Neel Mitra at Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> With the DSIC mechanism now implemented in Pennsylvania roughly what percentage of your distribution CapEx now is covered through a tracker you get a contemporaneous recovery with? Sure.
Let me ask Greg Dudkin to comment on that.
Yes I would say it's probably around 30% to 40%.
So it's -- the DSIC is focused on reliability-related investments so it's in the 30% to 40% range.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second on Kentucky.
Can you kind of comment on the supply-demand situation post-2015 when the coal plants retire from that? Is the Cane Run CCGT enough to fulfill the load? Or would you envision building new plants or possibly acquiring some of the coal plants that have come up for sale in your service territory? Go ahead Vic.
Let me comment on that.
We -- you may recall we issued an RFP for a generation supply.
That begins in about 2017 2018.
And we're in the process of evaluate -- about 30 bids come in including from Western Kentucky Big Rivers and we're in the process of evaluating those things.
It appears to us that we begin to show a deficiency in -- by 2018 so we'll put something in place to meet those requirements.
As we say we're evaluating the RFP results from the RFP against self-build option as well.
But then now since it's not complete we have a little time before we have to do that.
We'll probably be in a position to talk about that by the end of the year.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so you would foresee new capacity coming online in 2018 as kind of the first year as [indiscernible]? I'm sorry could you repeat that? Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Is 2018 the first year that you would need the additional capacity after Cane Run? Or would you need it prior to that? About 2018 is when we would begin to show a deficiency off of our -- we have a reserve margin of about 15% and that's when we begin to show a deficiency in the reserve margin.
That's the period of time we're focusing on right now.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one last question on Supply.
How are you looking at hedging longer term now that we're seeing some of the Marcellus gas dislocate versus Henry Hub? And obviously that kind of sets the price of power for your Pennsylvania plants.
Are you looking to hedge a little farther out? Or is it just too early to tell? I would say overall our hedging program generally speaking has not changed.
We have been as you know very aggressive in hedging the output which has resulted in significant benefits to shareowners.
And as we look at our fundamental analysis that kind of guides us as to how aggressively we want to hedge or not hedge.
Dave do you want to provide any other comments on our hedging? Yes.
I'd add -- I'll just a supplement Bill.
We have at this point no plans to change the percentage targets we have put out in the past for future years starting with 2015 in this case.
So really no change intended at this point in time.
And I think to some degree we're -- we have constraints with liquidity in the market.
So even if we wanted to hedge 3 to 5 years out let's say the liquidity just doesn't exist to allow us to effectively do that.
Our next question comes from Greg Gordon at ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have actually been answered but I wanted to circle back to a comment that you made about being focused on the idea that there is value in your generation fleet and you're trying to make sure that's preserved so that your shareholders benefit from it.
You've clearly done that through hedging well but do you think that your fleet is scaled? And do you think that one of the ways that you might preserve and create value in the long run would be to seek to become a more scaled entity that would benefit more from an ultimate recovery in power markets or the flip side being at least capitalize the benefits of being able to have more sustained reduced costs? Sure a fair question.
And as I have mentioned on previous calls in Supply our focus has been and will continue to be on aggressively controlling both our O&amp;M and capital costs.
And we'll continue to evaluate other options that could increase value.
But that's really nothing new in terms of our approach and how we've thought about strategic options over the years.
So I think we continue to explore options for all the businesses that would maximize value.
Our next question comes from Michael Lapides at Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions a little bit unrelated.
First there's been some discussion out of D.C.
regarding some tax code-related changes and one of the things that always comes up is the potential impact -- the potential treatment of offshore cash that gets repatriated.
Can you just give high-level comments about how much cash you maintain offshore? How much of it you could actually bring back to the U.S.
if that tax code were -- if there was a tax code change versus what you need to keep offshore to be able to fund CapEx in the U.K.? Sure.
Paul? Yes there's not -- we don't -- given the growth in investment in the U.K.
don't maintain significant offshore cash balances.
And we've kind of said in the past that if we find ourselves in a situation where we've got cash there in excess of our targeted cap structures and in excess of planned reinvestment we sweep that cash back to the States irrespective of tax outcomes.
And given the way that we very efficiently tax-structured the acquisitions there's not any material U.S.
incremental tax that comes with those repatriations for the intermediate term.
At times if you look at the P&amp;L and you would see cash balances there it's because we do benchmark fundraising.
So we'll over time eat into our liquidity facilities do a benchmark transaction and then use that to fund 1 year in our multiyear set of investment options there.
So there's not room in the cap structure to lever up and there's not significant excess cash sitting on the ground.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
A follow-up for you Paul.
If you just look at the balance sheet in your earnings release the balance of short-term debt at the end of the second quarter is almost I don't know roughly 80% to 90% higher than it was at the end of 2012.
What's the plan? Transactions GBP 400 million transaction later this year in the U.K.
and then we've got $250 million to $300 million FMBs at both KU and LG&amp;E.
We did a transaction in July as well.
When you look at the quarter-end statements we did an FMB at Electric Utilities as well.
So the utilities much like the comment that I just made about the U.K.
where we have liquidity facilities that we use and eat into and then replace that with longer-term debt balances we cycle through that especially -- you'll see bigger movements with the big construction programs then you would see a normal run rate where you've only got kind of maintenance CapEx kind of a cycle.
So nothing concerning on that front at all and you'll see some more capital markets debt transactions as we make our way through the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then last item.
You all talked in the prepared comments about an increase in the Pocono transmission project.
How big of an increase? What's the driver? And kind of what years does that impact? Sure let me ask Greg Dudkin to respond to that.
Yes so the increase went from $200 million to $335 million.
The 3 categories were material and labor.
Combining those that was about $45 million of the change.
And the scope -- and when I say scope so when we put together the original estimate we hadn't finalized on the path.
So it's finalizing on a path increase right away.
We changed the construction standards.
So the remainder is in that area.
This project basically is scheduled over the next few years all the way through to 2017.
So the increase is basically throughout those years.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I was just curious because when I was looking at the CapEx slide I think it's Page 20 I didn't really see much of a change in the kind of that red bar in Pennsylvania transmission so I didn't know if you were cutting somewhere else.
Yes no there's no cuts.
I had made the comments earlier that we hadn't fully updated that to reflect the business planning changes which the increase in this transmission project would fall into.
So you'd see those updates from us later in the year.
Our next question comes from Julien Dumoulin-Smith at UBS.
Research Division</strong> So first question here.
We've kind of talked about it a little bit but on the Marcellus and gas basis obviously that's kind of taken an acceleration of late.
What are you seeing just with respect to PJM West pricing? Obviously your cousins to the east were fairly good in the quarter.
But for yourselves how are you seeing this play out given spot prices as low as they are on gas? Well I think overall I wouldn't say there was a significant change from our plan.
And of course we came into the year very highly hedged.
But overall we understand the impact.
We're following the basis very closely and it has been slightly negative thus far which again was consistent with our thought coming into the year.
Dave I don't know if you have any further comments.
Yes we -- well Julien we expect that to persist into the future and are enveloping that into our plans for 2014 and beyond.
So essentially we're accepting reality here and just incorporating into our forward-going plan.
Research Division</strong> And then secondly could you talk a little bit about the change in U.K.
guidance? Just I suppose pushing it back around after kind of a couple of different changes here if you will? Sure.
Rick why don't you comment? Sure.
We've experienced a number of small favorable variance in a number of our income statement line items like interest expense and depreciation and maintenance expense with probably our largest variance in revenue.
And that's really due to favorable price and volume variances including weather as Paul had mentioned in his remarks earlier.
And so our revised forecast for the year incorporates this higher level of revenue that we'll see for the remainder of the year in both pricing and the past volume variances that we've realized already on a year-to-date basis.
Research Division</strong> Interesting.
And what had pushed it down initially if you can remind us? I'm sorry the question again Julien? Research Division</strong> What had pushed the outlook down if you will initially? Well the outlook had -- went down was due to the revised share count that we had at the end of the Q1.
So yes at the beginning of the year it was higher but the entire change was just due to the reflection of the share difference at the end of the Q1.
There was no operational effects that resulted in that difference in forecast at the end of Q1.
Our next question comes from Steven Fleishman at Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Follow-up on that last question.
The -- should we think that some of the drivers that raised the '13 guidance for the U.K.
would benefit the '14 guidance you gave as well for the U.K.? Or are they more specific to this year such as weather? Go ahead Rick.
A big part of the positive variance that we're seeing for this year was weather and that's probably $0.03 a share that's in our numbers on a year-to-date basis.
That is more of a onetime item because in the U.K.
we may have volume variances within the year but those get normalized over the long term.
And so some of that will get -- be given back in tariffs in the subsequent year.
At this stage it's hard to identify all the changes that'll take place in our tariff calculation.
And so we have not changed our forecast or guidance for '14 as it relates to the U.K.
Regulated segment.
And Steve we set the business plan late in 2012.
Some of the positive things that we had been seeing we factored into the numbers that we provided in July.
We had the benefit of 6 months of experience at that point in time versus when the plan got finalized.
So some of that was based in there as well.
LLC</strong> That's right because so you did raise the '14 when you did the update in July as I recall a little bit.
Okay.
Yes.
LLC</strong> And my other question and this is just a clarification Bill when you talk about kind of a trough in earnings '14 '15 are you referring specifically still to just the Supply business or the overall PPL [indiscernible]? Really what we -- I was really speaking to the overall PPL consolidated EPS which obviously some of that is driven by the fall-off on the Supply earnings.
Our next question comes from Anthony Crowdell at Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick housekeeping issues.
On Slide 21 you give there projected regulated rate base growth.
Are those average or year-end totals? And the second thing I know you talked on a percentage basis.
But for your incentive revenues for the U.K.
businesses were you assuming in millions of dollars in like '16 and '17? Okay.
So on the slide those are year-end numbers.
And Rick why don't you comment on the incentives? Yes.
So as we showed on our July 1 presentation there was an incentive slide that was baked in.
And to give a bit more detail we have estimated $100 million in incentive revenue that we have earned throughout the rest of this regulatory period.
But given the regulatory lag and how you recover those revenues those will then slip into '16 and partially into '17 for our recovery period.
But that's our forecast for the incentive revenues for that period.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Gregg Orrill at Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask about coal transportation costs to your PJM fleet.
And kind of longer term what you're seeing in terms of trends there and how you're addressing it? Sure.
On the coal transportation front for our major rail supplier we had renegotiated a longer-term contract that I think was either -- I think it was late year before last.
And that contract goes out still a number of years yet.
And so in terms of our trend it's really just following the contract terms as we negotiated it.
I don't know that I have any more color on where the trends are today.
So we're happy with the contract and it's performing pretty much as we expected it to perform.
Our next question comes from Rajeev Lalwani at Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the U.K.
operations.
Can you talk about what it takes to get fast tracked and what impact having good customer service has on that? Sure.
Rick? The fast-tracking process is one that Ofgem will look at how has companies performed in the current rate period with regards to what you had promised to deliver.
And promising to deliver is the investment plan that had been set forth in this current 5-year period as well your performance against the regulatory metrics including customer service and reliability safety and a number of other items.
And so how you have performed is a key factor that goes into the fast-track decision.
The other side of that decision is then providing a well-justified business plan a justified business plan that is backed up by cost-benefit analyses technical analysis of what you need to spend over the next 8-year period a review of all your cost bases to ensure that there's levels of efficiency in your cost base as well as then having your business plan influenced by a significant stakeholder engagement program.
And we have an extensive stakeholder program where we've had over 4 200 different stakeholders a number of working groups that have been spread out across our territory to get input from our customers to get input from our stakeholders with regards as to what do they deem to be most important in the delivery of the service that we provide them.
And then we take that input and include it into the business plan determination and prioritizing our investment that is consistent with our stakeholder views.
And so that's an important factor that the regulator will review as well.
So it's performance in the current period and a well-justified business plan that we believe then sets us forth to be fast tracked through the process.
Thanks Rick.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a question on the Supply business.
Can you talk about your commitment to infuse equity into Supply just to improve the balance sheet and help pay down some debt particularly in the light of what we've seen in the markets? And maybe some better opportunities elsewhere within the company as far as regulated investment et cetera? Sure.
Paul? Yes we've got significant capital in terms of equity coming into the company.
We had the $1.150 billion convert at the beginning of the third quarter here we had the equity forward conclude itself and convert over to shares in Q2.
There is new equity coming $978 million April of next year from the converts issued to finance the U.K.
acquisition.
We did -- at the beginning of the quarter we had a maturity in Supply of $300 million that got paid off.
We're again in the throes of our business planning process.
There's not a -- you use the term capital commitment where we are trying to target and expect to achieve investment-grade credit ratings across the enterprise.
We've eliminated equity on a going forward -- need on a going forward basis.
So with the very robust capital spending plans of all 3 of the utilities segment the capital is called for and spoken for at this point in time.
But we do massage things as we move through time and we're cognizant of the statement that Bill made earlier about looking at all the options to try to increase share value and that'll factor into our financing plans as we finalize those as part of normal business planning.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Bill Spence for any closing remarks.
Okay thanks operator and thank you all for joining us today and look forward to your questions on our next quarterly earnings call.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the PPL Corporation Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Joe Bergstein Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining the PPL conference call on third quarter results and our general business outlook.
We are providing slides to this presentation on our website at www.pplweb.com.
Any statements made in this presentation about future operating results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
A discussion of the factors that could cause actual results or events to differ is contained in the appendix to this presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
This time I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Spence PPL Chairman President and CEO.
Thanks Joe.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
With me on the call are Paul Farr PPL's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and the Presidents of 3 of our 4 business segments.
Greg Dudkin President of PPL Electric Utilities is not able to join us today.
I'll start today's call with an overview of third quarter and year-to-date results briefly review operational highlights and then I'll discuss the increase to our midpoint of the 2013 earnings forecast that we announced this morning.
Following my remarks Paul will review the financial results in more detail.
Today we're reporting solid earnings for the third quarter and year-to-date.
Quarterly earnings from ongoing operations increased by 3% over 2012 on a net income basis driven by continued growth in our regulated business segments in the United Kingdom Pennsylvania and Kentucky.
Through 9 months earnings from ongoing operations are 6% higher than a year ago.
On Slide 4 you'll notice that on a per-share basis ongoing earnings are slightly lower than 2012 for both the quarter and year-to-date primarily due to the increased share count associated with the 2010 and 2011 equity units which we've discussed in some detail in previous calls.
I'd also like to note that third quarter and year-to-date 2013 earnings were negatively affected by $0.06 per share due to a noncash adjustment deferred tax asset.
Paul will address this item in more detail shortly.
Excluding those items ongoing earnings per share from our regulated business segments are up by 23% year-to-date compared to the first 9 months of 2012.
The regulated business segments represent almost 90% of PPL's ongoing earnings on a year-to-date basis.
Moving to Slide 5.
Today we're announcing an increase to the midpoint of our 2013 earnings forecast as a result of the continuing strong performance of our regulated business segments.
Specifically we're increasing the midpoint of our ongoing earnings forecast to $2.35 per share from the previous midpoint of $2.32 per share.
The increase is driven primarily by a $0.04 improvement in projected earnings from our U.K.
Regulated segment.
Our U.K.
business continues to deliver superior results both financially as well as operationally.
Let's move to Slide 6 for a review of some of the operational highlights of the quarter.
We recently received work from the U.K.
Office of Gas and Electricity Markets that it expects to announce its initial business plan assessment and fast track draft determination on November 22.
In that announcement we will learn whether any of our 4 U.K.
subsidiaries will receive accelerated consideration of their business plans under the RIIO-ED1 process.
Subsequent to the submittal of our business plans on July 1 we have met with Ofgem staff and the committee of its board in accordance with Ofgem's schedule and we continue to believe that our well-justified plans support the fast tracking of all 4 of our distribution network operators.
Another recent highlight for our U.K.
Regulated segment was the determination of the 2012 and 2013 annual incentive awards for WPD.
Beginning April 1 2014 we expect to collect about $110 million in bonus revenue due to our strong operating metrics which is a 30% increase to what we received for the 2011-2012 regulatory year.
Included in that award was more than $10 million for customer satisfaction measures an element of the annual perform metrics where customers are surveyed regarding outages connections and general inquiries.
And in the current regulatory year our outstanding performance has continued as the WPD subsidiaries hold the top 4 positions in Ofgem's broad measure of customer satisfaction.
Moving on to our Kentucky Regulated segment.
We recently completed an evaluation of bids for future energy supply needs.
Louisville Gas and Electric and Kentucky Utilities plan to file for Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity to build a 700-megawatt combined-cycle natural gas power plant and a 10-megawatt solar energy facility.
We expect that filing to occur by the end of the year.
These 2 projects totaling about $725 million will provide our Kentucky customers with reliable low-cost generation that meets the latest Environmental Protection Agency regulations.
Finally in Pennsylvania we continue to execute our major initiatives to upgrade the transmission system for safety and reliability.
We are more than 50% complete on the $630 million Susquehanna-Roseland project and reached the construction milestone just this week.
By energizing a 17-mile segment of the line.
We continue to estimate completion of the Pennsylvania portion by June of 2015.
Also we recently received good news for the $335 million Northeast/Pocono transmission project.
The Pennsylvania PUC administrative law judge issued a recommend decision concluding that PPL met its burden on all issues and recommended that the commission approve the siting applications 2 zoning petitions and the remaining eminent domain applications.
We expect to final PUC order in the first quarter of 2014.
Turning to distribution sales on Slide 7.
You will see that weather-normalized sales in the third quarter were down slightly in both Kentucky and Pennsylvania from a year ago.
In Kentucky weather-normalized residential sales were lower in the quarter but remained higher for the 12-month period ending September 30.
Although Kentucky commercial sales were up almost 1% in the quarter the 12-month period reflects the struggles of small businesses in the Louisville area and the economic impact of the mining industry downturn in Eastern Kentucky.
Kentucky industrial volumes decreased primarily reflecting planned maintenance shutdowns and lower production from some of our largest customers.
In Pennsylvania improved economic conditions led to higher weather-normalized sales in the commercial sector in the quarter which were offset by reductions in the residential and industrial sectors due largely to customers implementing energy efficiency measures.
On an actual basis the more temperate summer weather in the quarter compared to 2012 led to lower kilowatt hour sales in both regions.
We expect total electric sales for both Kentucky and Pennsylvania for 2013 to be relatively flat year-over-year.
Now turning to Slide 8 for an update on the supply business.
In September we announced an agreement to sell PPL Montana's 11 hydroelectric plants to NorthWestern Energy for $900 million.
The agreement is subject to regulatory approvals including the Montana Public Service Commission and FERC and is expected to close in the second half of 2014.
The net process of about $623 million will enable us to reduce financing needs for our future capital investment in our rate-regulated businesses.
In the East we recently completed a turbine blade inspection outage on Susquehanna Unit 2 at the Susquehanna nuclear plant.
Based on our engineering analysis of the Unit 1 turbine in Susquehanna we're not planning any outage until its planned refueling in the spring of 2014.
In the appendix of today's presentation we provided an update to our forecasted generation and hedge disclosures including the addition of our 2015 hedge levels.
Lastly we're encouraged by 2 recent favorable decisions from the federal courts invalidating state attempts to subsidize new generation in PJM.
In these cases federal judges agreed with us that New Jersey and Maryland unconstitutionally infringed on FERC's exclusive authority to regulate the wholesale power market.
These decisions in our view reinforce the integrity of competitive generation markets.
In closing we're pleased with the earnings growth from our regulated business segments and the ability of our supply business to manage through challenging power market conditions.
The efforts to the entire organization and our expectations of continued strong perform enabled us to increase our 2013 earnings forecast.
We remain very optimistic about our prospects for growing shareowner value through strong operational performance disciplined financial management and superior execution of our regulated growth opportunities.
I look forward to your questions and now we'll turn the call over to Paul Farr.
Paul? Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
Let's move to Slide 9.
PPL's third quarter earnings from ongoing operations increased over last year driven by improved earnings in all 3 regulated business segments.
The supply segment experienced an earnings decline as we expected primarily due to lower hedged wholesale power prices.
On an earnings-per-share basis earnings declined in the third quarter due to additional shares included in our share count year-over-year.
The higher share count impacted ongoing earnings per share by $0.08 for the period.
Let's start the segment review with Kentucky results on Slide 10.
Kentucky earned $0.14 per share in the third quarter a $0.02 increase compared to last year.
This increase was primarily driven by higher margins due to new base rates that went into effect January 1 and increased environmental investments partially offset by lower volumes driven by more temperate weather this year.
Kentucky's positive margins were partially offset by dilution of $0.02 a share.
Moving to Slide 11.
Our U.K.
Regulated segment earned $0.31 per share in the third quarter a $0.03 increase over last year.
This increase was due to higher utility revenue primarily driven by the annual price increase on April 1 partially offset by an accrual for overrecovery of current year revenues and lower volumes due to weather.
Income taxes are lower primarily as a result of the decrease in corporate income tax rates in the U.K.
These positive earnings drivers were partially offset by higher network maintenance expense and dilution of $0.03 per share.
Turning to Slide 12.
Our Pennsylvania Regulated segment earned $0.08 per share in the quarter a $0.02 increase compared to last year.
This increase was the result of higher delivery margins primarily due to a new distribution rates but went into effect on January 1 as well as the increased transmission investment.
The margin improvement was partially offset by dilution of $0.01 per share.
Moving to Slide 13.
Our supply segment earned $0.14 per share in the third quarter a $0.12 decline compared to last year.
This decrease was primarily the net result of lower energy margins driven by lower baseload energy prices and lower baseload generation partially offset by higher capacity prices higher O&amp;M higher income taxes primarily resulting from a noncash adjustment to deferred tax assets that Bill mentioned previously.
During the third quarter we conducted a preliminary assessment of our ability to utilize Pennsylvania net operating loss carryforwards.
Our long-range forecast of taxable income has declined since last year reducing our ability to utilize these NOLs in the future.
In prior years we had recorded adjustments to this deferred tax item in the fourth quarter and we will perform a final assessment in Q4.
Finally dilution impacted supply earnings by $0.02 per share.
That completes the more detailed financial overview and I'll now turn the call back over to Bill for the Q&amp;A period.
Thanks Paul and operator we're now ready to take our first question.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from Kit Konolige of BGC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Couple of different areas.
First of all just on the sale of the hydro plants in Montana you didn't sell Colstrip at the same time.
What's the future of Colstrip at this point? Do you expect to hold that indefinitely? Or is that something you'd like to sell if you could? Or can you give us a little color on what led to the transaction taking that shape? Sure.
Well I'd say relative to Colstrip they are well-run environmentally compliant assets and they do provide both positive cash flow as well as positive earnings to the corporation.
So we're happy to continue to run them in a safe and cost-effective manner.
In terms of the sale to NorthWestern I think in that case it was just a mutual agreement that that made sense for them provide a good value to PPL.
So we were able to strike what we think is a very fair deal for both parties.
So we'll continue to evaluate Colstrip but for the time being our plan is to continue to run it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could Paul could you go through a little bit more that the issue with the use of the NOLs? I didn't quite catch -- did you say the projection of future earnings is that earnings at supply is expected to be lower than previously thought? Yes most of that impact of the $0.06 does hit the supply segment.
About $0.04 of the $0.06 was at supply.
The other $0.02 was at corp.
As we project margins look at cost for running the business that's declined year-over-year.
And this is a 20-year forecast basically of utilizing these net operating loss carryforwards.
And again based upon where capacity prices cleared at where we see forward energy prices year-on-year things have come down a bit and so that valuation adjustment impacts not just book earnings the taxable earnings as well.
And that's just decreased our ability to use the net operating losses versus what our view was last year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Does the guidance still stand that you don't expect supply to report EPS contribution below 0? Yes that's correct.
That's correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one final other area on the -- to follow a little bit on your mention of the court victories regarding the state subsidies for new power plants I think pretty clearly that -- but I'd like your feedback.
I don't think that should affect the auctions over the next -- certainly the next couple or 3 years.
And can you give us a rough view of your thinking on kind of early outlook on next May's auction whether you expect it let's just say to be up or down relative to this last auction? Yes so on the wins in New Jersey and Maryland at the federal level those outcomes will be challenged.
So it will take some time to go through the next phase of those proceedings but we think we have an extremely strong case and that those early outcomes will be upheld.
I think that it will -- and I think already has discouraged both the states and potential suppliers from proposing new projects or new mechanisms so I think it's had an effect already and will continue to have a positive effect as it relates to the competitive markets.
On the future of the RPM for the next auction there are a number of changes I think that you're aware of that PJM is considering along with feedback from many of the market participants.
And those changes include reassessing import capabilities how much demand response should be allowed into the auctions and other modeling changes potentially.
So it's really hard to say at this point how all that may play into the next auction since we're still early in that process if you will of looking at potential changes.
I think the positive from my perspective is that PJM is listening to the market participants that have concerns and making sure that their focus continues to be on their #1 priority which is a reliable supply for the grid.
So I think they understand that role that they play and take it obviously very seriously.
The next question is from them from Dan Eggers of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just kind of maybe following up on supply and decision to exit Montana hydro can you just maybe share your current thinking on the future of supply in this totality for you guys? And as that business gets smaller there's a lot of overhead associated with it.
Is there a cost-cutting opportunity or a need to get more scale to help optimize the structure? Well I think there is a cost-cutting opportunity and we continue to execute that on.
Dave DeCampli and his team have done a great job thus far and they continue to find opportunities there.
As we answered one of the call -- or the questions previously our current plan for 2014 and 2015 not only does it reflect the current forwards as they were at the end of the quarter but we still see our supply business as an EPS positive contributor to the corporation overall.
So I think I have also mentioned that we're always looking at opportunities to enhance the value potential for each of the businesses as well as shareholder value for PPL as a whole.
And we've proven that through the strategic actions we have taken over the past several years.
So those actions allow us the flexibility to fully assess our position without having to make rushed decisions.
In supply our focus will continue to be on aggressively controlling both O&amp;M and capital costs.
But we're going to continue to evaluate other options that could increase value but that's nothing new quite frankly in terms of our approach.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just on the U.K.
with the higher incentive revenues and continued better performance probably than we had expected is that going to have any bearing on the outlook for earnings with the REO process completion relative to what you guys outlined this summer when you filed the REO case? I don't -- yes I don't think it would have a substantial impact on it I think other than to continue to show to Ofgem our capability to meet and beat their metrics and prove that hopefully that we are worthy of fast tracking of all the 4 distribution network operations.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just one more.
If you jump back to Slide 20 in your deck where you guys show the -- your kind of a fading CapEx outlook in '15 '16 '17 Bill as you look out are there opportunities to spend more capital or more projects that could layer into that number to lift up the grow rate to lift up that level of reinvestment and what's in the bars things like the Kentucky generation investment and that sort of stuff that we'll see these reinflate over coming quarters? Yes.
I think there will be opportunities Dan.
Specifically I think in Pennsylvania there will be transmission opportunities that aren't in the current forecast.
I think in Kentucky there'll probably be further opportunities as we go through time.
So yes I think there will be of those opportunities and we'll just assess where do we best place the capital the incremental capital that we want to spend and put it in the right spots.
Research Division</strong> And I mean do you see that being generation driven in Kentucky? Or is there more transmission distribution work that need to get done that maybe has gotten crowded out for lack of better word as you've had to spend a lot of money on generation? Let me have Vic respond to that question.
The generation -- the new generation that we announced and Bill referenced in his earlier comments are reflected in the capital budgets that you see on Slide 20 I guess.
Yes there probably are some additional transmission and distribution opportunities out there but the other thing that will drive us frankly will be new environmental requirements.
Landfill who knows what's going on with the EPA? And so I think you'll see us -- again as we have done in the past move forward on environmental expenditures.
I would expect changing laws will create new opportunities for us on the capital side for our generation portfolio.
The next question is from Julien Dumoulin-Smith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> So perhaps just following up on Dan's question on the U.K.
here it looks like very robust expectations for 2013.
Congratulations on that.
Just kind of looking forward even here prior to the next reset in '14 here would you expect at least some of the benefits from this year to at least roll forward to next year? I mean your guidance I suppose from the midpart of this year had $1.32 at the top end of that range if you could just speak to that a little bit particularly in light of the added revenues from the bonus side? Sure.
I think some but not all would carry over into next year but let me ask Rick Klingensmith to give you a little more color on that.
Our range in forecast for next year was $825 million to $875 million and we still forecast to be within that range.
As Bill mentioned we will see some benefits continuing into next year.
The incentive revenues that we had announced here this morning helped in next year's performance especially -- it's a partial year so you'll get some of that benefit and that will be mixed in with the $82 million that we had earned the previous year.
And so that would be a nice blended element for us for next year.
But you also have to recall that over the years volume does get normalized.
So we don't have upside or downside related to volume although we may see that within a year and that we're seeing that this year.
If you recall back in our first 2 quarters earnings calls we had mentioned that the long cold winter has benefited us this year.
We will need to get some of that back next year in the tariff reset that occurs April 1.
So when you kind of mix the carryforward of some of the good items that have occurred this year and net that with some of the tariff adjustments due to over recovery this year we find ourselves still within that range of $825 million to $875 million for '14.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
Much appreciated.
And then turning back to the supply business if you could just on the Unit 1 at Susquehanna just perhaps do you -- is it that you don't perceive there to be issues at that first unit to the extent to which you did the latest testing? Or is it more that it is sufficiently safe to continue operating until the next refueling outage? Just give us an update overall on the blade issue? Sure.
It's really the latter rather than the former.
But specifically what we're -- we've been doing is monitoring the unit very carefully and we have very strict parameters within which we're planning to operate the unit.
And once we go outside the margin that we have identified as a safe margin we would then have to look to make decision whether to bring unit offline.
But so far we're steady with the blade vibrations.
And our outlook is that we're going to be able to continue to run the unit safely and reliably until the refueling outage in the spring of next year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then quickly in terms of maintenance CapEx I mean there's a lot of focus of late obviously on supply.
Just what's a good run rate number there to think about for that business? I mean obviously a $400 million to $500 million in your disclosure's a bit just kind of on a run-rate basis.
Yes.
It's $400 million to $500 million on the disclosure but that also includes around $160 million to $170 million of nuclear fuel each year.
So you have to back that off those numbers so Julien it's probably close to something in the $300-ish million range.
It'll go up and down based upon major outages that we've got at the coal plants.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And last quick clarification when you were talking about supply contributing positively to the corporate -- corporation in its entirety for the foreseeable future just wanted to clarify that that is prior to any contemplated cost cuts because I heard that the same paragraph there.
That would include cost cuts that are either in play now or that would be impacting 2014 and 2015.
But we have identified specific areas where Dave and his team believe we can get additional cost out.
But we're very confident in those actions.
They're doable actions and things that we've done in the past and believe we can do in the future.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And okay one more clarification.
That is excluding or assuming the sale of the Montana business correct? Yes that is.
Correct.
The next question is from Neel Mitra of Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question on supply.
Where would you say you're tracking on your hedging plan relative to your ratable strategy? It seems like you're about half of what you were hedged going into EI relative to last year.
Is that something consistent with your past or maybe taking a view on the market in '14 and '15? I think it's relatively consistent.
We don't have per se a ratable program.
We have more ranges that we look at in years 1 2 and 3.
Having said that we're a little bit lighter hedged in 2015 than we might have been that third year if you will than we have been in the past.
And some of that's just due to the lower floor prices that we're seeing and the view that we have that there will be opportunities between now and then to hedge at more favorable prices.
And so for example you saw 2015 prices hit the upper $40 on-peak range earlier this year.
We took advantage of that layered in a few more hedges.
And we expect with the volatility we have seen in the past in gas prices and power prices that we'd continue to probably see those opportunities pop up from time to time and we'll take advantage of those.
So that's really what goes into our thought process when we look to hedge that far out.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then could you maybe give us your updated thoughts on what the basis is between your plans and PJM West now that we have some cheap Marcellus gas pricing impacting your zone? Sure maybe I'll ask Dave DeCampli to comment on that.
Sure.
Obviously we're constantly monitoring TETCO M3 to Henry Hub discount.
We take advantage of that basis differential on a number of ways.
One our -- of course our gas plants benefit from that.
Secondly if economically we do end up having to curtail operations at a coal plant and buying back that's a good thing for us as well particularly in a year in which we're well hedged.
On the downside that impact of course continues to depress overall energy prices.
But our diverse portfolio we're able to work around that and take advantage of that situation.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So longer term I think you guys said that you would be flat going forward maybe after 2015.
What's your long-term base assumption? Yes.
I think we would continue to see it as being flat and I think if some of the proposed pipelines taking gas from the Marcellus to other markets actually come to pass in that 2015-2016 time frame I think that would be a reasonably good prediction if you will but there are so many factors that play into basis differentials as you know that it is very difficult to predict those things.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one last question.
Paul how much debt at the parent supports the supply business right now? Yes.
I wouldn't say any really debt at the parent supports the supply business I think the debt at the parent was primarily issued to finance.
The acquisitions I think about it more on a total balance sheet perspective.
We're targeting the investment-grade credit ratings across the complex.
S&amp;P looks at us in a total asset flow to debt basis.
Moody's looks at the individual registrants and then steps back and looks at it in entirety as well.
So I'm not clearly uncomfortable with the level of debt that's there.
We're paying down debt and supply this year a bit a little bit currently in the plan for next year as well.
That plan was put into place well before we had an agreement to sell the Montana assets and to realize the almost $630 million in after-tax proceeds that Bill talked about.
So the plan will get modified if you will and is fluid as we move through time and experience things like asset sales as well.
So -- but I wouldn't look at it that it's there to support supply.
I think it's really the 90%-ish of regulated earnings and those cash flows as well as anything that really if you want to call it supporting supply that's really supporting the risk profile the entire organization which supplied the benefit from.
Our next question is from part Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
Just on the NOLs that forced an impact how does that work out going forward? I mean is that -- it means -- how should we think about the tax rate and how the $0.04 -- how we should see that sort of showing up next year and what have you? Yes.
So Paul you might recall back to 2010 we had a relatively significant release of tax reserves in that year.
It's around $70 million $75 million.
We've rolled back a few cents of that each in the last 2 years.
And with this $0.06 impact this year there's only $0.01 remaining in terms of total exposure on the balance sheet that could get rolled back in if we saw a further decline.
Basically we'll have fully reserved up the NOLs and you wouldn't see a balance sheet exposure for us and therefore there wouldn't be future negative EPS exposure either.
Okay.
So it's sort of a one-timer.
Correct.
And that's kind of how we highlighted in 2010 as well.
We historically haven't carved out or special item-treated tax items unless it's a tax law change like the statutory rate decrease in the U.K.
So we call those out for you when we experience them but it's not -- it doesn't impact ongoing -- as I said in a response to some of these earlier questions this is a 20-year forward-look at and looking at the useful life of these NOL carryforwards and so it's relatively small movement that can have somewhat of a material impact but it is noncash and not ongoing if you will.
Okay great.
And then when we look at the -- what are the NOLs net of reserves that you guys have left on your balance sheet? So on this PA NOLs the state-based NOLs it's around $1 billion.
Again that's fully reserved up.
On an NOL I call it an NOL equivalent basis so in excess of $1 billion that we purchased effectively in the Kentucky acquisition all of this bonus depreciation that's been -- that's been impacting us for the last several years were a little under $3 billion in NOL equivalent value that we on a federal basis that we got warehoused.
That's one of the reasons for example why there is no cash tax paid on the sale of Montana asset is we can shelter that with the NOLs.
Okay.
With the sales growth outlook now given the last couple of years what we've seen and what have you what do you guys think now going forward? Sure.
On an overall basis looking at Kentucky and Pennsylvania we would see sales being flat to slightly positive on an ongoing basis.
And it's going to be clearly reflective of the strength that the economy is as we get to '14 '15 '16.
But we do think that our expectations should be more conservative compared to where they were a couple of years ago because all of the energy efficiency conservation other impacts to demand that I think are more systemic than just purely economically driven.
Great.
And then you were talking about the RPM Auction and all the things that are happening there and you also mentioned sort of transmission opportunities which made me think about this recent IPSAC meeting at PJM regarding mark-to-market congestion between MISO or another market -- between MISO and PJM and sort of transmission opportunities.
And I was wondering what your thoughts are with respect to sort of dozens and dozens of projects sort of aimed at alleviating the mark-to-market congestion.
This is outside the rule changes that they're potentially talking about with DFAX and everything.
I'm talking about just the efforts to sort of resolve that physical constraint the seams issues so to speak and what it might mean for the long-term outlook for supply and whether that's figured into your EPS positive outlook? Sure.
It is figured in to the extent we know about the projects and many of them we do because they take so long to plan and engineer and then construct.
So we have pretty good visibility I think into those projects.
I think in terms of the transmission opportunities side it's really a question of will those congestion pockets if you will continue into the future and how long into the future.
Some of the congestion or negative basis that we've seen is driven by the transmission projects that are underway today.
So as we experienced outages on a grid to take care of some of these congestion issues it's creating what I would say are temporary congestion sometimes in a different direction than we've seen in the past.
So I think you have -- taking all that into account I don't know that there is a material impact in the next several years on our supply business output.
Longer-term difficult to say.
Okay.
And then just finally on the environmental you guys mentioned that there was a potential additional environmental CapEx associated with I guess coal ash and what have you.
And I was wondering is that sort of regulated like in Kentucky? Or is that sort of non-regulated or any sense as to where you're looking at those CapEx issues? Yes.
That would be on the regulated side in Kentucky that we were discussing earlier.
And really I think in response to what may come out of greenhouse gas initiatives by the EPA for existing units of course they made some proposals on new units but as Rick also mentioned there's still I would say debates and discussion around 316(b) water issues as well as coal ash handling and storage issues.
Our next question is from Jonathan Arnold of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Could you guys give some sort of a sense of how you see the net impact of the Montana sale and the reworking of the Colstrip lease in terms of earnings? Sure.
We would expect the transaction to be modestly accretive to earnings and cash flow.
Research Division</strong> So that's on a -- starting in 2014 basis Bill? Probably 2015 would be the first full year.
2014 we would expect the transaction to close some time in the second half.
So I would look at the first full year of impact would be 2015.
Research Division</strong> And could you guys kind of give us a little more insight into the components of that analysis? Paul do you want to...
Yes.
It would come from kind of multiple perspectives.
When would you look at on a forward basis where the margins minus the O&amp;M and depreciation were in the assets we worked hugely positive on that front.
And then from an outright financing perspective with the payoff of the Colstrip lease and basically refinancing that future obligation at much lower rates factor everything in as Bill said both cash flow earnings positive for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Since it's kind of neutral on the hydro contribution and then gets positive on the refinance on the lease basically? Yes.
Really all of Montana as we were getting -- as were intimating and keeping all of supply positive the West was not any materially different than the East in terms of the flat to slightly positive earnings going out into the future.
So those were Runner River hydro assets very good assets.
That earnings profile of that subset of supply was -- looked just like supply in entirety so.
Our next question is from Shahriar Pourreza of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Two questions just focusing on the U.K.
With the initial assessment being potentially being released at the end of November is there still an opportunity for you to make the final determination if you don't make the initial assessment in what would Ofgem use as a prerequisite to potentially add you in case you don't make it? I'll ask Rick to comment on that.
Yes.
If you don't make the initial assessment on the fast-track draft determination it is a not possible for you then to make the fast-track determination.
In essence so Ofgem will be creating a short list of those that could be fast tracked and continue through the process to get that final determination in February of 2014.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
And then just one question on the U.K.
policy there's been a lot of chatter as far as trying to curtail electricity rates.
And a lot of what you're hearing is everything from government intervention to windfall taxes to potential tariff freezes.
And a lot of it has just for now been really focused on generation.
The question is can you see that being secant to the distribution and transmission business? Or do you think a lot of what you're hearing from the Labour Party is really focused on generation? You're correct.
It has been focused on generation and marketing companies as well.
It has not thus far been on the infrastructure itself.
And Cameron's recent comments around his look at the picture what's really focused on some of the green initiatives and the incremental cost in the tariff of the green programs.
So thus far it has not been a focus for our segment of the business.
And as you can imagine on the total bill side the distribution component of the bill is literally one of the smallest pieces of the bill.
So it's probably reasonable to assume that they would focus on where the greatest portion of the bill is coming from.
Our next question is from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of items supply and then bigger picture stuff.
First at supply I noticed that the 2015 coal -- delivered coal price is actually down from the '13 and '14 levels.
Just curious is that rail or is that the actual cost of tonnage? Sure Michael.
Let me ask David DeCampli to comment on that.
It's primarily actually the cost of the coal itself.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
Second have you ever quantified the potential for O&amp;M cost management and supply? We -- Yes sure.
We have -- Dave do you want to talk about some of your targets and...
Yes sure.
In supply we -- of course we have 2 streams of O&amp;M cost in the business.
One is those within supply then the corporate services cost.
We got initiatives in play to reduce cost in both sides of the formula and had good success over last year and in the forecast plan as well.
In reducing cost it's also affected operations.
We've been able to take O&amp;M growth to 0 at our nuclear facility for instance through streamlining and cost-cutting initiatives.
Of course our coal fleet has taken a good brunt of those reductions with it seeing some reduced operations installed efficiencies and things like that.
But we're not leaving any stone unturned in the business or for those who support our business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean when you think about O&amp;M at supply in x Montana like apples-to-apples comparison up down flat neither something else kind of just big picture directional over multi-years.
Well very slightly with Montana.
It will be a little bit of a push up in overhead over the remaining assets.
We'll still be operating our marketing operation in Butte.
We'll still need some of the overhead support for Colstrip and Corette as long as we run Corette.
There will be a little bit of the pick-up impact there but I wouldn't call it material.
We'll be able to able to handle that.
So overall it's probably safe to say that our target our plan is to maintain cost at or below where they currently are today.
Including inflationary impact...
Yes.
That's right.
So net-net the direction would be flat to negative.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Real quick Paul you commented a little bit on cash taxes.
Do you expect to be a full noncash taxpayer? And if so for how long? I wouldn't expect that we will be paying taxes at the federal level until 2018 at the earliest.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you see kind of tax -- the delta between GAAP taxes and cash taxes as being kind of a sizable cash flow benefit.
That's correct that's correct.
And we obviously don't know yet on our corporate tax reform basis what they're going to do if you will.
If they're going to extend any of the current 50% bonus that's not been necessarily a benefit to this sector.
Anyway I don't think it's driven $1 of incremental spending but we need to see how that plays out as well.
If they extended any of that that could push it out even further.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And finally Bill when you look across the industry and think longer terms I mean you guys were one of the -- only a handful of companies who I think made very transformative M&amp;A-related transactions that literally changed the shape of the company.
When you look now a couple of years removed from those transactions how are you thinking about where the opportunity sets if any exists across regulated nonregulated U.S.
non-U.S.
electric and gas or other businesses kind of how are you thinking about what you want the shape and where the opportunities lie if any in regards to long-term M&amp;A? Sure I will.
We're fortunate that with all of our 3 regulated entities U.K.
Kentucky Pennsylvania we have great internal growth opportunities so organic growth if you will.
We can see that through our CapEx spending plans that we discussed earlier on the call.
We don't see that as something that's going to all of a sudden just hit a cliff.
So I think there's going to be ongoing opportunities just within the businesses themselves to grow on a reasonable basis.
In our case we have one of the higher growth rates in the sector almost an 8% CAGR.
So we would continue to see that.
I think in the supply area our guess is that there's going to be more consolidation if gas prices continue to stay and power prices at the low levels that we're seeing them in the forwards and today.
So I would fully anticipate more M&amp;A in that area of the industry than I would in the regulated side.
Not to say that there couldn't be M&amp;A on the regulated side but as you're well aware those premiums that are required to engage in an acquisition can be difficult to overcome through synergies when many times you have to give some of that synergy back to the rate-making process.
So that can be difficult to accomplish on an accretive basis.
So beyond that clearly there is a potential in the country with low gas prices to see more industry coming to the areas that have the lowest cost natural gas prices.
And we we're seeing some of that.
I guess how much of that we see is going to be depended on a lot of things including taxes local market conditions labor et cetera.
So we'll see how that all transpires.
We do see a trend I guess in people converting vehicles to natural gas.
So I mean that's a trend that we would expect to continue.
Same on the electric side with electric vehicles not necessarily in our territory per se but overall we see that as a trend.
So that's just a couple of general thoughts.
The next question is from Rajeev Lalwani of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just -- the first question is on the U.K.
In the event you're not fast tracked would it be possible -- or not fast tracked entirely would it be possible just based on how you filed your business plans for at least some of the utilities there to be fast tracked? And then a follow-up on the supply side.
Sure.
It is a possible one or more of the distribution network operators could be fast tracked.
It doesn't have to be -- it's not an all or nothing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just based on how you filed the actual business plan is there much of a difference between the various utilities there? There is not.
I think all the initiatives across the network are very common and the spending is also pretty levelized across the companies.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then just on the supply side it seems like you've done a great job with finding costs to offset the weakness in gas prices.
But just generally as you've seen prices come down how has it changed your view in terms of the -- your strategic thinking around those assets longer term? Well it certainly places a higher risk level on the assets and the business overall than we might have expected going back a couple of years.
However we recognized that we need to be resilient and flexible in our approach and that's what I think you hear us saying.
When I look at every opportunity and as Dave DeCampli has said he's going to leave no stone unturned in terms of finding additional value in the business.
So as I mentioned in previous remarks we're going to continue to look at opportunities in the business to make it leaner and as profitable as it can be.
And other opportunities and even options we'll continue to look at as well.
Anything that could increase the value we're going to look at.
The next question is from Steven Fleishman of Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> My questions are answered.
The next question is from Gregg Orrill of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can talk about your performance in the recent U.K.
storms? Sure Greg.
I'll let Rick comment on that.
Yes.
The St.
Jude storm that we saw at the beginning of this week was probably the most severe storm that has affected England in over 10 years.
Over the storm period we experienced wind gusts up to 75 miles an hour and we saw power outages for about 53 000 of our customers.
In all about 200 of those customers were restored within 12 hours and all customers were restored within 18 hours which is the Ofgem standard for this type of event.
The damage and the effects of the storm were much more severe in South and Southeast England versus in our territory.
And we were able to provide over 100 staff to help restoration efforts in the U.K.
power networks territory.
The next question is from Anthony Crowdell of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions a follow-up on a debt question earlier I just want to know what the level of debt at the parent is.
I guess you said there's some debt at the parent that helped finance the whole organization.
If you can tell me something the level of that debt.
And the second question is related to the regulated utilities.
What's your earned ROE at your Pennsylvania Kentucky and if you had for the U.K.
utilities? Sure.
On the Pennsylvania side it's probably in the upper 9% range on a regulated basis on the kind of the regulatory filing basis.
Vic do you want to...
The Kentucky this year will be between 9% and 10%.
And the -- in the U.K.
Rick? Yes.
Though in the U.K.
we're about 18% including the effects of goodwill in that formula.
And at the parent company there's roughly $2.5 billion of that -- $2 billion $2.1-ish billion that came as a result of the acquisitions: the $1.150 billion for Kentucky; and a little less than $1 billion $988 million $987 million for the U.K.
acquisition; and then we've got a deeply subordinated deal that we did earlier this year that was around $400-ish million.
LLC</strong> Great.
And this is like a follow-up on the U.K.
ROE the -- just I'm not sure how does the goodwill impacting? I mean is the goodwill -- you're saying you're earning off the goodwill portion is it like in RAV? Is it-- am I thinking that the right back? No we're not.
And none of the jurisdiction is goodwill an assets that you can earn or return on so that's basically all equity-financed and you see that driving the I'll call it the "with goodwill" ROE down.
The next question is from Angie Storozynski of Macquarie.
I have 2 questions.
First on the supply business your hedge disclosures continue to include the hydro assets.
If I were to strip them out is there going to be any meaningful change as far as the percentages of hedged volumes and prices for the baseload west? Yes.
That would come down somewhat of the roughly 8 million megawatt hours a year that we get in Montana about 3 -- what maybe 3.2 now with the rain [indiscernible] upgrade of the hydro system.
But how about prices hedged? There will not be a differential in the in the hedged price.
And if you recall one element of the agreement with Northwestern is that at close of the transaction we would just let settle any mark-to-market so that they did not end up with extra length in their book to serve customers.
So that'll get -- that'll come down to the extent that there are material hedges with them outstanding at that point in time.
Okay.
And now back to the U.K.
I mean your RIIO is still a new mechanism and if I understand correctly the fast track the approval of the fast track means that your request as far as new revenue levels is basically accepted as is? And if I compare your applications to applications of other utilities in the U.K.
it seems like you're asking about slightly higher returns than your peers.
So I mean how do you -- do you think that that more aggressive of a filing might impact the or ability to actually get -- to get fast tracked? Well first part of your question if you're fast tracked it is accepted as is so that your plan as filed is deemed to have been fully justified.
But we are not requesting a different ROE than anyone else.
It's a generic make up of the debt and equity in the rate-making process there.
So the cost to capital is kind of plain vanilla.
And everyone really is measured on the same basis.
And I think we're required to file on per the instructions of Ofgem.
I'll just add the filing that we had made was for a 6.7% real cost of equity and I believe the majority -- maybe all but one have that same request for that return on equity.
But how about incorporating all other incentives -- performance incentives et cetera et cetera? Wouldn't that actually give you a slightly higher margin your operations versus what we can see in other filings? Well the other filings were not necessarily incentives included.
There are targets for your levels of performance into the future and you may have the opportunity to surpassed those targets in the future but there's no specific values associated with the incentives that you'll see in RIIO plan.
Yes.
It's not in the base revenue that you see in the plan.
Our last question today will come from Nathan Judd -- I'm sorry Judge of Atlantic Equities.
I just wanted to ask a little bit more on the disclosure supply.
You have brought back your generation expected generation from -- in the east.
Can you just give me why that's the case? Is that Susquehanna or what's driving that? Sure.
Dave you wan to...
Yes.
There's 2 primary drivers.
One of course was the line outages at Susquehanna and we also had an unexpected outrage in our Brunner Island station that affected it as well.
Those are the 2 prime drivers.
Going forward in 2014 and '15? Could you repeat your question for '14 and '15.
please? Sure.
So I believe when you presented last -- you had a presentation which showed 50.4 million megawatt hours with 41.8 terrawatt hours in the east.
And you're looking for kind of 40.6.
And I'm just kind of wondering why you're bringing down your projected forecast for output in 2014 and '15? Yes.
It's the extension of these turbine blade outages intended for Susquehanna that is the primary driver for the lowering of that for 2014 and '15 at this point.
When I look at how your coal plants have performed year-to-date your production from those coal plants are obviously down from last year how are you seeing given the low power price and how do we think about the variability in the coal production? Well the -- if there is a -- the variability is primarily driven by our choice to economically take them out of service.
At times when prices would dictate we're able to take advantage of that buyback from the market and do well that way.
I think you should be able -- you should expect that type of variability in the future.
We can't always predict what those periods exactly will be.
So expect a little bit of volatility in those numbers as the years unfold.
So that -- your hedging...
Sorry.
So that reduction that you referenced between the previous forecast and the current does reflect both our forecast of coal plant output and onetime based on economics and with lower gas prices you're going to see a little bit less run time and also changes at Susquehanna.
So those 2 things combined are really driving the lower output on a period-to-period basis.
How much [indiscernible] can you take that down given your core hedges? 77%? I mean at certain point you've got to run your coal plants.
At what point do we see economic losses begin to be realized? I don't think in the forecast we would even get close to that type of a situation.
And we have built into some of our coal contracts' flexibility.
And to the extent that the flexibility is not already built-in we've been successful at working with our coal suppliers to manage our inventories and our burn.
So I think this far we don't see that as a potential problem.
Okay.
Thanks everyone for joining us today.
And we look forward to our next quarterly call.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the PPL Corporation First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions).
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Joe Bergstein.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Amy.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining the PPL conference call on first quarter results and our general business outlook.
We are providing slides of this presentation on our website at www.pplweb.com.
Any statements made in this presentation about future operating results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
A discussion of the factors that could cause actual results or events to differ is contained in the appendix to this presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Spence PPL's Chairman President and CEO.
Thanks Joe and good morning everyone.
We are glad you are able to join us today.
On the call with me are Paul Farr PPL's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and the Presidents for our business segments.
Moving to slide 3; the agenda will start with an overview of quarterly earnings and operational results and a discussion of the 2013 earnings forecast which we raised this morning.
After my remarks Paul will review our segment financial results.
When Paul has concluded his remarks we will open the phone lines to your questions.
Turning to slide 4 today we announced reported earnings of $0.49 per share for the first quarter a decrease from $0.65 per share on the first quarter of 2013.
Adjusting for special items are earnings from ongoing operations or $0.80 per share an increase of 13% over last year's first quarter of ongoing earnings of $0.71 per share.
Each of our three regulated segments outperformed first quarter 2013 results and Supply segment earnings were the same as the first quarter of 2013.
These strong results show the value of our ongoing investments in regulated infrastructure and a strong performance of our competitive generating plants during the unusually cold weather we experienced this winter.
Moving to slide 5; today we updated our 2014 ongoing earnings forecast to $2.15 to $2.30 per share with a midpoint of $2.23 per share.
As reflected in the table our strong first quarter enabled us to increase the guidance range for each of our four business segments from the original forecast.
Slide 6 identified some of the Q1 operational highlights of our regulated business segments.
We received confirmation in late February that all four of our Western Power Distribution subsidiaries in the United Kingdom were accepted for fast tracking of their eight year business plans by the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets or Ofgem.
Our subsidiaries were the only four distribution network operators whose plans were deemed suitable for accelerated consideration.
We are very pleased with the great work of our U.K.
team which worked extremely hard to produce high quality plans acceptable for fast tracking.
We also appreciate Ofgem's confidence in our ability to provide cost effective operations while providing frontier performance in customer service and reliability.
In Pennsylvania we made further progress on PPL's portion of the Susquehanna to Roseland transmission line and remain on-track for our June 2015 in service date despite the difficult weather conditions this winter.
In late February we energized a new 230 KV section of the line through the Delaware water gap and we finished our overhead work in the national park in March.
With the milestones that have been completed in the first quarter PPL's portion of the project is now about 75% complete.
On slide 7; you will see that our domestic utility sales benefited significantly from the unusually cold weather.
On a weather normalized basis sales were essentially flat in Kentucky quarter-over-quarter as lower commercial sales were offset by higher residential and industrial sales.
Kentucky commercial sales declined in the Louisville metro area and KU's Eastern Kentucky region.
Small businesses in the Eastern part of Kentucky have been hit especially hard by the challenges facing the coal mining industry.
Industrial sales in Kentucky increased slightly as some of our larger customers maintain higher production levels with shorter maintenance outages and some expansions.
Weather normalized sales in Pennsylvania were higher across all three primary customer segments with industrial volumes experiencing the greatest improvement continuing an upward trend we have experienced over the last 12 months.
The cement and steel sectors reflected the highest growth at a positive 16% and 8% respectively and we saw modest growth among most other sectors except mining.
Moving to slide 8; our supply segment performed very well operationally in the first quarter.
Our flexible intermediate and peaking units delivered excellent results in the quarter due to the high prices experienced in the PJM region despite running at lower capacity factors than a year ago.
The lower capacity factors were driven by planned outages at our Ironwood and Lower Mount Bethel plants and higher natural gas prices which impacted plant dispatch.
Our baseload coal units also provided some upside on high demand days by operating at capacity factors that exceeded our expectations.
At our Susquehanna nuclear plant we completed a turbine inspection outage on Unit-II in March and installed modifications that are designed to reduce blade vibration and minimize the potential for blade cracking.
We are currently in a plant refueling outage on Unit-I that began on April 12 and are making similar modifications to those turbines.
We believe these modifications will enable the units to run for their full two year operating cycles.
Finally the announced sales of the PPL Montana Hydroelectric assets to Northwestern Energy continues to be reviewed by regulators.
In March the federal energy regulatory commission approved the transfer of operating licenses to Northwestern with the exception of the Kerr Project which is still pending.
The separate FERC application for the dispositioning of the assets is also still pending.
We did just this week receive FTC approval for the Montana asset sale.
The Montana Public Service Commission continues its review and remains on-schedule to issue a final order in the fall of this year.
Overall we had a great first quarter and start to 2014 providing us with the confidence to increase our guidance range for the year.
We are executing at a very high level on all objectives we set out at the beginning of the year and we expect to continue that momentum heading into the summer.
Finally we continue to believe the value of our Supply business is understated in our share price.
We are committed to realizing appropriate value from that business and are continuing to focus on this objective.
I look forward to your questions and now I will turn the call over to Paul Farr.
Paul? Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
Let's move to slide 9; our strong first quarter results reflect higher earnings from each of our three regulated segments and flat earnings from our Supply business compared to the first quarter of 2013.
Now let's move over -- start with a detailed review of Q1 segment earnings driver starting with the U.K.
on slide 10.
U.K.
regulated earned $0.41 per share in the first quarter a $0.04 increase over last year.
This increase was primarily due to higher utility revenues driven by the April 1st 2013 price increase partially offset by lower volume due to weather and lower pension expense.
These positive drivers were partially offset by higher depreciation.
Moving now to slide 11; Kentucky earned $0.16 per share in the quarter a $0.02 increase compared to last year.
This increase was due to higher gross margins primarily due to higher retail and off-system sales volumes driven by the unusually cold weather Bill mentioned and higher earnings from environmental CapEx partially offset by higher O&amp;M.
Turning to slide 12; our Pennsylvania regulated segment earned $0.13 per share in the first quarter a $0.03 increase versus last year.
This increase was due to higher distribution margins driven by higher sales volumes due to the cold weather and the benefit from a change in estimate of a regulatory liability as well as higher transmission margins.
Finishing with Supply on slide 13; this segment earned $0.11 per share in the quarter compared to last year.
This result was primarily due to higher Eastern energy margins driven by higher capacity prices and a net benefit from colder weather partially offset by lower hedged baseload energy prices and lower nuclear generation off-grid due to the timing of planned outages and lower financing costs.
Now this was offset by lower Western energy margins driven by lower coal and hydro unit availability and higher income taxes.
That's the end of my prepared remarks and I will turn the call back over to Bill for the Q&amp;A period.
Okay.
Thanks Paul and operator we are now ready for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Dan Eggers with Credit Suisse.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Dan.
There has been a lot of press commentary in the last few days in particular about Supply and may be where that's headed.
I know you guys are trying to find the best way to extract value for their business or so the value of it.
Do you have a view may be on timing of when will [indiscernible] or when you guys will come to a reasonable conclusion of how that fits into PPL on a long run basis? Dan there is no specific timeline but I would say it continues to be a key priority of the company.
Okay.
And then on -- in Kentucky I guess kind of the munis stepping back on the renewal their contracts and the reevaluation mill [indiscernible] can you just talk about what that process looks like and maybe thought process around that plant? Sure.
I will ask Vic Staffieri to answer that.
We see no application from none of our municipals it is about 300 megawatts or so that they'd like to get out of their contract in about five years.
That has led us to we think -- the timing on a new combined cycle plant at Green River.
So we have filed with the Public Service Commission and put that in advance.
We are talking to the municipals and that will play out over time.
But the only impact frankly would be perhaps a delay in the in-service date of the next combined cycle plant.
Vic to put that in context I mean a delay by -- is kind of a two year delay three year delay I mean how long were you guys [indiscernible] in? It could be -- there are other things that could compel us to move a little -- to keep it.
It may not just below that makes us decide to move that plant back -- we might want to move it for load purposes back to the three years.
We might decide to keep it only one year depending upon some of the environmental concerns.
That could give us a nice diversification opportunity and we want to be mindful of the environmental requirement particularly the pressure on coal.
So you could say from a load perspective you could move back as far as three years but there might be other consideration that allows to move it up.
We are looking at that right now which is why we made a bonding with the Public Service Commission to put that proceeding in advance of 90 days as we think through the implications.
Okay.
And I guess one last question there has been some issues in the quarter around kind of coal ash and coal ash remediation in the region.
Can you just give us an update where you guys are both at Supply and in Kentucky as far as compliance plans and your perspective spending to make sure you don't have any issues.
Sure.
On the competitive coal front in Pennsylvania the majority -- actually all of our plans at this point are all dry ash facilities and they are all beneficially using the dry ash.
So we have really essentially closed all of our wet ash compounds quite some time ago.
So most of those have been remediated.
When we look at on a go forward basis our major concern as with the entire industry is ensuring that coal ash does not become a hazardous waste.
And that's our number one priority I think as a company and as an industry.
And we think that can be avoided and should be avoided and when you drop back to the additional oversight that we may see I think its just a question of degree and how much more would we have to do at some of the facilities particularly those that are wet ash facilities.
And then in Kentucky what is [indiscernible]? In Kentucky we do still have some wet ash ponds.
We are moving towards landfills.
We are in licensing proceedings at Trimble County and [indiscernible] and other places to remove our ponds over time.
We are confident we have done the kind of analysis that need to be done to ensure that we hopefully don't have the problems that have plagued others with respect to these ponds but we are moving towards the landfills in almost every occasion.
Do you have a ballpark on how much money that's going to require and maybe timing to get that result? It would be over the next decade or so.
Remember part of the problem is we don't have the bottom [ph] regulations yet out of EPA.
Once we get those we will be in a better position.
But we do have some money in our budget over time.
I think it's in the order of $300 million to $400 million probably in our long term capital budgets to reflect that.
Great.
Thank you guys.
You're welcome.
The next question comes from Kit Konolige at BGC.
Close enough.
That's okay.
So couple of different areas.
So first of all should we be projecting anything forward in earnings level for the company from the increase in 2014? In other words is this all due to weather at Supply -- basically at Supply and distribution companies? Or is there stronger earning power than we had thought so far? I think when we look at our business plan clearly weather in the first quarter was a significant factor and I will let Paul comment on the details of how much of the outperformance was weather driven.
But fundamentally we had very good performance as well from all the regulated segments.
I think what I would say is that we are very well on track with our regulated business on a weather adjusted business.
We continue to perform at a high level and may be Paul you can comment on the specific numbers for the quarter? Yeah Kit weather in total was only about half of the $0.08 increase to the midpoint of the forecast.
So we were significantly ahead.
We were about $0.04 in total for the Supply business ahead of plan and forecast.
And then the utilities were kind of a push.
We were $0.03 positive domestically offset by $0.03 negative in weather in the U.K.
So when you look at that -- a big component of the increase was weather but that only made up about half of the total.
Okay that's great.
How about in the U.K.
what can you tell us about FX effects compared to what we might have thought before and about the cash repatriation process? Are you on-track with all of those compared to prior guidance? Yeah Kit we are.
Obviously the currency has been a little bit stronger but as you may recall we are fully hedged -- nearly fully hedged coming into this year.
So really net effect is that we are on plan.
In terms of repatriation I don't think there is any new news there.
I think again its on track as we would we expect and so again we are right on plan right where we would like to be at this point in the year.
Okay.
And last area on the future of Supply.
Are you or potential counterparties waiting for any further news on the market front in particular on the RPM auction coming up and in general can you tell us anything about your perception of how higher prices in PJM this year have affected the value of supply? I would say generally speaking neither the capacity auction nor the price action that we have seen based on the significant increase that we saw on our prices in PJM in the winter would impact our strategic thinking around the supply business.
We continue to have as our number one priority the aggressive cost control and optimizing the dispatch of our plants while of course maintaining safe and reliable operations.
At the same time we do continue to consider other options that could enhance value.
There is no particular data point or view point of forward prices that we are waiting for or that would substantially impact our thought process around strategic options for that business.
Okay that's great.
Thanks Bill.
You're welcome.
Our next question comes from Julien Dumoulin-Smith at UBS.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Bill quick question if you can talk about the supply side a little bit more.
As you think about strategic options how important is control of any eventual structure that you might conceive of? Well as I mentioned we are considering other options that can enhance value or remain committed to creating value from the Supply business for shareowners and we are going to keep focused on this effort.
There is not a particular structure or ownership or objective that we have along those lines that would be of the table.
I think we are looking for the best opportunity we have to create shareowner value.
So whatever form that may come in we are considering.
So as I mentioned we don't have specific timeline.
We are being disciplined about the process and it is a key priority of ours.
Excellent.
And then looking at the Supply side I suppose we have seen some recent rise in Maryland around NOX.
I'd be curious as you think about your Pennsylvania portfolios Brunner Island doesn't have an SCR.
Is that something that you guys are thinking about down the line or how you think about environmental CapEx just from a conventional perspective? I think at this juncture we don't see a lot of incremental CapEx required on the environmental front for either Brunner Island or Montour stations in Pennsylvania.
I think we are in fairly decent shape.
There is some related to the math.
Really folks more around mercury control than it is around SOX or NOX.
So at this point I don't see any significant addition that we would need to make.
Great.
And then lastly on the 2016 outlook.
I know you haven't talked about it.
But we have obviously seen a pretty big move in the supply mark-to-market.
Are we talking about still kind of targeting breakeven or positive EPS or were we better than that in the long term here and thinking about 2015 and 2016? Yeah when we think about the forward curve and looking at our supply business we expect that it will continue to be in positive EPS territory.
I think our comments in the past were that we would do everything that we could to ensure that it stayed in positive territory; and with the cost cutting that Dave DeCampli and his team have already embarked on and where we see forward prices we would expect that it will continue to be in positive EPS territory.
Excellent.
And then lastly if you don't mind on the RPM side.
I know you just got a question there.
But expectations on that and then also just with regards to new gas generation entrants if you will? Sure.
I think as we look at this RPM in particular there are a lot of moving parts a lot of modifications have been made.
There is a lot of kind of noise out there around the residual auctions and so forth.
So I think for this year at least we are not going to put out an expectation around where we expect RPM prices to settle out because there is a lot more uncertainty in our view coming into this auction than we have seen in past auctions.
So I think it's just really difficult to nail this one down in any precise manner.
So we are going to really avoid making any prediction at this point.
Great.
Thank you very much.
The next question comes from Paul Patterson at Glenrock Associates.
Good morning.
How are you? Good morning Paul.
Just to sort of follow-up on that last question.
Do you want to talk at all about may be directionally where you think RPM might be going with respect to last year's auction? I mean I hear you on the substantial modifications but when you are adding them all up and subtracting any thoughts there? No I think again it could be significantly volatile so I think its really difficult to know and I think based on upcoming retirements other factors I think the bidding strategies of companies could be substantially different this time than last and I think that could influence the outcome more so than maybe some of the planning parameters that have influenced prior outcomes.
So I think for that reason we are really having a difficult time even directionally predicting where we think this could turn out.
Okay great.
Then on the WPD line loss? What was that exactly? I am sorry to be stressful on it.
What caused that? Yeah no problem.
Let me ask Rick Klingensmith to come in on that.
Sure.
Good morning Paul.
On the line loss aspect that we had where we increased the liability for this quarter related to that activity.
The line loss aspect was one that was in the regulatory period in the 2005 to 2010 timeframe.
And the regulatory structure was such that there was incentives and penalties that Ofgem had established around electricity and line losses for that period of time.
And as we went through the process there were certain incentives that had been earned and certain penalties that had been incurred by the distribution network operators.
But there was not a significant amount of accuracy in the metering and the data that was being received that ultimately calculated what the line losses were.
And so Ofgem has been working since the end of that rate review period to determine a formulaic approach to how best to address that data issue and determine what would be the appropriate formulas to determine incentives and penalties.
We had up to this point up to this quarter assumed that anything that we had received as incentives would ultimately be given back to customers and suppliers and as the ultimate final determination came out of Ofgem this quarter it was actually an increase in our liability a penalty that was to be assessed and so we needed to increase that liability by $65 million in the quarter.
It was an item that was treated as a special item in the quarter because it primarily related to the midlands businesses prior to our acquisition of those in 2011.
So going forward though you would now expect this to be an item we should be thinking about? That is correct.
Okay.
And then just back to -- I think it was Kit who had asked this.
I am sorry if I missed it.
What would you say was the total weather impact across the company? The total net weather impact Paul was $0.04 for the first quarter.
Thanks again.
You're welcome.
Our next question comes from Neel Mitra at Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt</strong> Hey good morning.
I was wondering if you could tell us kind of roughly where your hedge percentages for supply in 2016 and where that's tracking versus ratable? Okay.
Dave DeCampli do you want to comment on that? We haven't published those in the past.
We are still in that band of kind zero to 30% for year three.
Until we -- historically till we have gotten those hedge levels up to something that's more meaningful we haven't provided those.
We are in the band and we are cognizant of the benefit that we have seen in the first quarter from rising prices.
Some of the things that we have been forecasting to happen around higher heat rates rises in gas prices the incremental volatility that's showing up as a result of the winter weather.
In certain instances we are probably more at the lower end of our ranges given some of the fundamentals actually starting to come through.
So we are sticking to the three year strategy at this point.
And we will provide that on the Q3 call for sure.
Pickering Holt</strong> Got it.
Thank you.
And then the expected generation from the baseload fleet for 2014 has gone up roughly a little bit over three terawatt hours since the last call.
How much of that is due to this quarter Q1 and can you comment on how the coal fleet ran in general and then how much of that three terawatt hour increase is due to the rest of the year and the forward prices? Sure Dave? Yeah.
The majority of the increase is actually in the balance of the year.
Not much of it was in the first quarter.
The coal units were expected to run a good part of the winter.
So what you're seeing is majority of that in the second half of the year.
Dark spreads have improved.
Most of that is going to be in the off-peak in the shoulder months where we hadn't originally planned to run those units.
So with pricing as we are seeing we expect that generation to occur in shoulder months at all peak primarily.
What was the other part of your question there were two parts to it? Pickering Holt</strong> In capacity factors how did the coal fleet run in the first quarter versus the first quarter of last year? Yeah.
The fleet ran very well.
We had just one outage in the -- one forced outage back in early January that lasted for 24 26 hours.
But beyond that the coal fleet ran at capacity through all the periods it was called for.
Pickering Holt</strong> Okay.
And then to add to the questions about looking at the options on Supply may be I can ask it a different way.
It seems like a lot of the value which you can receive from a third party would be from possibly synergies or cutting O&amp;M costs.
So when you look at the various options do you prefer a spin or a partnership versus an outright sale? What's the best way to actually participate in some of the synergies or O&amp;M cuts which could substantially add value to supply? My only preference is to seek the highest value for the shareowners.
Whatever form that comes in it would be our objective.
So I am reluctant to comment on any particular type or style of objective there because there are various options and we are open to considering the ones that are going to create the highest value.
Pickering Holt</strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Next question comes from Paul Ridzon at KeyBanc.
Just a real small question.
What was the impact in Pennsylvania the change in estimate? Paul the change in estimate was reversal of storm costs accrual that we put on the books last year that we got positive results from the commission.
11 of the 12 months we had accrued last year we were not required to refund to consumers so it was just adjusting that liability down.
Can you quantify it? A penny.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
The next question comes from Michel Lapides at Goldman Sachs.
Hey guys.
Congrats on a good quarter.
Two questions a little bit unrelated after the more complex one first.
I want to pay you a compliment and that you are one of the only companies back in 2010-2011 timeframe who made via corporate actions meaning via M&amp;A a call on your view of at least a three to five year view on merchant power when you bought both the Kentucky businesses and you bought the U.K.
business.
In other words kudos for making that call.
It showed insight that I think a lot of other folks didn't show in terms of a three to five year view on merchant power in general.
I now want to ask if you look three to five years and then look longer term in general what's your near term or medium term view on merchant power and then long term view? Sure.
On the near to mid term view I think its more or less unchanged from what we said on prior quarters which is that we did not believe that forward prices were truly reflective of the supply and demand fundamentals and the looming coal retirements that we had anticipated.
And I think this winter highlighted how tight the supply and demand could be when you remove some of that coal from the dispatch stack.
So the movements that we have seen in power prices in the forwards now essentially reflect our fundamental view that we have held for quite a while now.
If you look longer term I think strategically you still are going to have a fairly volatile complex in the power and natural gas sectors.
So I think as you know natural gas is a significant driver to the power markets and we continue to see a lot of uncertainty in the gas markets which will drive uncertainty in the power market.
So I think our view while it has improved it has improved towards our fundamental view A.
And B perhaps it has improved even beyond that and may be things will be significantly better than we are all anticipating in the longer term.
However its still going to be I think a volatile ride in our view and one that you just have to ensure that you are prepared to survive.
Okay.
Do you guys have a view whether its for purchasing gas -- do you have a view on gas basis differentials kind of in and around your part of PJM? I am just kind of looking at what's happening at TETCO versus NYMEX over the last -- really over the last six or nine months both in the spot market and in the forward markets where TETCO or Marcellus gas had been in a sizeable discount is actually trading a little bit about Henry Hub? I think our view would be shaped by the timing of a lot of the pipeline expansion projects that are attempting to deliver the Marcellus shale and the other Eastern shale into the key markets namely the mid-Atlantic and northeast markets.
In terms of a specific view on MMBTU in basis we don't really have a particular viewpoint a strong viewpoint I should say on that.
Okay.
Last one unrelated to the merchant markets.
When you look across your businesses which ones do you think have the greatest opportunities over a multiyear period for O&amp;M cost management and which ones will be a little harder to implement O&amp;M cost savings? I think there's opportunities across the board but I don't know that any particular group is easy or more difficult than another.
So we attempt to be as efficient as we can across the board.
So I don't know that I can specifically say that there is one group or another that's any more equipped or better prepared to embark on significant cost cutting.
I think our number one priority in terms of aggressive control of costs is really around the supply business as it needs to be.
Got it.
Okay thanks guys and congrats on a good quarter.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Gregg Orrill at Barclays.
Thank you.
I was wondering if you could touch base on Kentucky and what your thoughts there are in terms of the timing of rate case filing? Okay sure Greg.
Vic why don't you? I think its likely that we will make a rate case filing by the end of the year.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Steven Fleishman at Wolfe Research.
Yeah hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Steve.
Hey Bill.
So just a question on hedging.
It look like you added a decent amount of hedging for 2015 and the average hedge price in the East came down a decent amount.
Is that just kind of the prices you hedged and may be a bit early in the year is there something else that occurred that would explain that? Dave can provide some color around that.
Steve its primarily -- the focus of our hedging recently has been on off-peak hour and we got aggressive there that's why you see the pull down in price.
Got you.
So would you say that the 30% that's still open for 2015 is very weighted towards peak? Actually it has gotten fairly close to even at this point.
Okay.
And then sorry to ask a PJM question but just one of the things this year is there is a PTL zone that has been created.
I mean do you think that there is a decent chance that that zone separates and why was it created? Well I think it was probably created around the challenges that coal plants in particular face and looking at the region around our Brunner Island station I think PJM felt that it may be there is a need there to send the price signal.
But its really hard to judge Steve whether that zone will break out in this auction or not.
So we don't really have an expectation necessarily that it will.
But again a lot of volatility in the parameters coming into this auction compared to others and then as I mentioned on an earlier question the bidding behavior we are expecting to be probably different than it probably has been in the past.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
The next question comes from Rajeev Lalwani at Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
Can you just talk about the excess leverage investment capacity you have today and hypothetically if you were to exit the merchant power business what that does to that capacity just given lower business risk? Paul why don't you? Hi Rajeev this is Paul.
I guess the way I would think about things is we are at our targeted credit metrics across the complex.
The internal cash flow that we generate is basically going to from all of the business and Supply is obviously a cash flow positive contributor is going towards rate base growth and maintaining equity ratio at the utilities as they deploy that significant amount of CapEx that we have in the schedule and in the appendix and going to pay the dividend which we recently announced an increase on.
So I don't feel uncomfortable with where we are at from a balance sheet perspective in any way.
If there was a structural separation of the Supply business I don't want to pre-judge what the rating agencies would do as they evaluate that.
But clearly to Bill's earlier comment you'd be taking out the most volatile risky component of the enterprise and the remaining pieces that are left should be able to live with lower -- at that point consolidated FFO to debt metrics.
Obviously the Supply business is high for a reason it reflects that volatility.
In pre or post some type of structural event if you will I think the company is in very good shape.
Okay.
And then a follow-up on the U.K.
side can you just talk about some of the pluses and minuses around your guidance that you have provided before? I think it was for 2015 2016 and may be where you are within those ranges or even outside of them? Okay.
Rick? Sure.
Good morning.
We had provided back July 1 of last year when we submitted our business plans into the RIO-ED1 process some outlooks associated with 2015 and 2016 ranges.
And as we went through the RIO process gotten through the final determination.
Got through the effects of the cost of equity changes incorporated the fast track benefits that we are getting from that and updated our spending and our pension expense and currency hedging programs we expect that the earnings are within the ranges that we had provided but likely at the higher end of the ranges in 2015 and 2016.
Great.
That was it.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Greg Gordon at ISI Group.
My question was just asked and answered.
Thank you.
Great.
Amy I think we have time for one more question.
Okay.
Then our last question will come from Brian Chin at Merrill Lynch.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Just a minor one on slide 16 the projected CapEx there was a small uptick in corporate CapEx versus the last set of slides just what is that? Rounding.
Its just extremely minor typically in that bucket its primarily IT expenditures for corporate platforms that get spread across the enterprise.
So just very small modifications to how we see the timing of certain projects.
Got you.
Great.
That's it.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Sure.
Okay operator thank you very much; and PPL as we just talked about had a very strong quarter and we continue to execute on all fronts.
We thank you for joining us today and look forward to talking to you on our Q2 earnings call.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the PPL Corporation Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
Now I'd like to turn the conference over to Joe Bergstein Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining the PPL conference call on second quarter results and our general business outlook.
We are providing slides of this presentation on our website at www.pplweb.com.
Any statements made in this presentation about future operating results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
A discussion of factors that could cause actual results or events to differ is contained in the appendix to this presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Spence PPL Chairman President and CEO.
Thank you Joe.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
With me on the call this morning for the first time is Vince Sorgi PPL's new Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Welcome Vince.
Also on the call to answer your questions are the presidents of our 4 business segments.
As I noted with the talent announcement Paul Farr has assumed the role of President for PPL Energy Supply through the transition process and will become CEO of Talen post spin.
Moving to Slide 3.
Our agenda this morning starts with an overview of second quarter earnings and operational results and an update on our 2014 earnings forecast which we have raised for the second time this year.
After my remarks Vince will review our segment financial results then Paul will provide an update on the progress of the supply spinoff.
We will then open the phones to your questions.
Turning to Slide 4.
Today we announced reported earnings of $0.34 per share for the second quarter a decrease from $0.63 per share in the second quarter of 2013.
Adjusting for special items are earnings from ongoing operations were $0.53 per share in the quarter an 8% increase over last year's second quarter ongoing earnings of $0.49 per share.
Strong performance at each of our regulated utilities with stronger margins from our competitive Energy Supply business led to very solid results through the first half of the year.
Year-to-date reported earnings were $0.83 per share compared to a $1.28 per share in the first half of 2013.
Earnings per share from ongoing operations for the first half of the year were $1.33 per share compared with $1.20 per share in the same period a year ago.
The strong year-to-date increase in ongoing earnings was driven in part by a combined $69 million from our domestic utilities driven by returns on additional transmission investments in Pennsylvania and on power plant environmental projects in Kentucky.
Let's move to Slide 5 for an update on our 2014 ongoing earnings forecast.
I'm pleased to say that today we are increasing the forecast to $2.20 per share to $2.40 per share.
As you can see in the segment information on this slide the forecast increase is primarily driven by strong performance from our Supply segment which is driven largely by expected margin improvements from our baseload assets.
As noted in our news release this morning we benefited from unrealized gains on certain forward commodity positions during the first half of the year primarily in the second quarter.
However we expect the majority of this to reverse in the second half of the year and have incorporated this reversal into our updated forecast.
We also see a slight uptick in the U.K.
Regulated segment.
Now let's turn to Slide 6 for an update of our regulated operations.
For the third year in a row PPL Electric Utilities has ranked highest amount large electric utilities in the Eastern United States for residential customer satisfaction in a study by J.D.
Power.
The award is the Utilities' 22nd from J.D.
Power and the 11th for residential customer satisfaction alone.
With this award PPL's domestic companies PPL Electric Utilities LG&amp;E KU and PPL EnergyPlus have won a total of 38 J.D.
Power awards more than any other company in the country.
And in the U.K.
our 4 operating utilities capture the top 4 spots for customer service and satisfaction in the regulators' rankings for the year ended March 31 2014.
This exemplary record of customer service continues to provide benefits for our customers and for our shareowners.
In another key development PPL Electric Utilities filed a plan with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission on June 30 seeking approval to replace existing electric meters with new smart meters that will improve service to customers and fully comply with state metering requirements.
The project will cost about $450 million of which about $300 million has been reflected in our capital expenditure forecast included in the appendix of today's presentation.
Under our proposal installation would begin in 2017 with all new meters in service by the end of 2019.
Also this morning we announced a PPL Electric Utilities proposal to PJM as part of the competitive solicitation process under FERC Order 1000.
As currently proposed the 500 kV transmission line would run about 725 miles from Western Pennsylvania into New York and New Jersey and also south into Maryland.
The project is in the preliminary planning stages.
The new line would improve electric service reliability enhance grid security and enable the development of new gas-fired power plants in the shale gas regions of Northern Pennsylvania.
The proposal would create savings for millions of electric customers by delivering lower cost electricity into the region and reducing grid-congesting cost.
According to preliminary estimates the cost of the project which is not yet included in our CapEx projections would be between $4 billion and $6 billion.
Because of the magnitude of this proposal there is a good chance we may enter into partnerships to develop and build the project.
The preliminary timeline envisions completion of the project by 2023 to 2025 assuming all necessary approvals are received and construction begins in 2017.
Approvals are needed from various regulatory and regional planning entities.
We'll keep you posted on any further developments.
Moving to Slide 7.
You'll see that weather-normalized sales for the quarter in Pennsylvania and Kentucky were in line with our 0.5% load growth forecast.
In Kentucky we're starting to see some improvement in our commercial sales and our industrial sales continue to grow driven by expanded production from the steel and auto industrial segments.
On the residential side weather-normalized sales were lower for the quarter but were offset on an actual basis by weather effects given a significant increase in cooling degree days in May and June compared to 2013.
In Pennsylvania residential customer use increased due to higher customer accounts compared to a year ago and higher use per account.
Industrial sales also continue to show improvements over 2013 as the steel and cement sectors posted solid increases in demand.
The commercial sector slowed a bit in the quarter after a strong first quarter which leaves weather-normalized growth flat year-to-date.
Moving to Slide 8.
Our Supply segment performed very well in the second quarter with improved capacity factors versus last year at almost all of our major Eastern facilities.
Our Eastern coal units operated at an average capacity factor of 64% which was a 9% increase over the second quarter of 2013.
This was driven by an unplanned outage at Montour last year and improved demand in PJM.
The combined cycle gas units also ran very well achieving an average capacity factor of 98% a significant improvement over last year due to a planned maintenance outage at Ironwood in 2013.
Finally Susquehanna Nuclear's capacity factor improved for the quarter by 17% due to the timing of outages in the first half of 2013 compared to 2014.
On the turbine blade issues we have installed newly designed blades this spring on Unit 1 at Susquehanna during its scheduled refueling and maintenance outage.
Early results have been positive as we've seen a significant reduction in blade vibration on the turbine that received the new shorter blades.
We will continue to analyze the unit's performance over the course of the year.
Pending the results of a full analysis and the vendor's final assessment of a root cause our plan is to install the newly designed blades on Unit 2 during its scheduled refueling outage next spring.
In the meantime we will continue to monitor blade vibrations and appropriately inspect potentially cracked blades and replace them as necessary as we've done safely and effectively operate the facility in the past.
Moving on to the pending sale of the Montana hydro facilities to NorthWestern Energy.
Regulatory review of the transaction continues.
The Montana Public Service Commission continues its review and recently completed its hearings as scheduled.
And just last week FERC approved the transfer for the Kerr Dam hydro license which had been pending since March when all of the others had received FERC approval to be transferred to NorthWestern.
We do not expect the sale to close before the fourth quarter of 2014 and as a reminder PPL will retain the proceeds from the sale.
We're also making very good progress in our spinoff of our Energy Supply business which we announced in early June.
We've completed nearly all of the required regulatory filings and we have transition teams up and running.
We remain on track to complete the transaction which will create a new publicly traded company call Talen Energy in the first or second quarter of 2015.
Finally we continue to execute at a very high level and remain focused on delivering value for shareowners.
I am very pleased with our second quarter and year-to-date results which allows us to increase our earnings guidance again and we continue to target at least 4% compound annual growth in earnings per share excluding Energy Supply.
I look forward to your questions and I'll now turn the call over to Vince.
Thanks Bill.
And good morning everyone.
Great to be with you on my first earnings call.
Let's start with a more detailed financial review on Slide 9.
PPL's second quarter earnings from ongoing operations increased over last year driven primarily by improved earnings at our Supply segment and at both of our domestic utilities.
The U.K.
Regulated segment was $0.02 lower than 2013 with weather being a contributing factor.
Let's move to the detailed segment review with the U.K.
results on Slide 10.
Our U.K.
Regulated segment earned $0.33 per share in the second quarter a $0.02 decrease from last year.
This decrease was due to higher U.S.
income taxes from a positive adjustment in 2013 related to a favorable IRS ruling on prior year's earnings and profits calculation.
We had higher depreciation from assets placed in service and higher financing costs from higher debt balances.
The decline in earnings was partially offset by higher utility revenues due primarily to the net result of higher prices and lower volumes due to weather.
We also had lower O&amp;M driven by lower pension expense.
Moving to Slide 11.
Kentucky earned $0.09 per share in the second quarter a $0.01 cent increase compared to a year ago.
This increase was driven by higher margins from additional environmental capital investment partially offset by higher O&amp;M due to the timing of coal plant maintenance and higher storm expenses.
Turning to Slide 12.
Our Pennsylvania Regulated segment earned $0.08 per share in the quarter a $0.01 increase compared to last year.
This increase was primarily the result of higher transmission margins driven by additional capital investment.
Moving to Slide 13.
Our competitive generation segment earned $0.06 per share in the second quarter an increase of $0.05 compared to last year.
This increase was primarily the result of higher Eastern energy margins driven by improved baseload availability from Susquehanna and also our coal fleet both primarily driven by outage timing.
We also had higher capacity prices and $0.04 of unrealized gains on certain forward commodity positions.
These positive drivers were partially offset by lower hedge baseload energy prices.
On Slide 14 we provided an update to the U.K.
earnings projections for 2014 to 2016 reflecting a significant improvement from expectations in July of 2013 when we filed our real business plans with Ofgem.
For 2014 our strong U.K.
performance is incorporated into the increased guidance that Bill mentioned in his remarks.
Our 2015 midpoint of $1.36 was communicated in June when we announced the Supply business spin and provided our 2015 earnings forecast for PPL excluding the Supply business.
For 2016 we are showing an $0.11 increase from the midpoint provided last July primarily driven by lower projected O&amp;M cost including lower network maintenance expenses and lower pension expenses as well as the projected improved currency exchange rate which is based on an average rate of $1.67 per pound compared to $1.58 assumed last year.
These benefits are expected to be partially offset by lower revenues from the final RIIO-ED1 revenue determination as well as higher interest expense.
On Slide 15 we show the updated projections of cash repatriations from WPD back to the U.S.
for the 2014 to '16 time period.
We continue to expect strong cash flows from WPD as we transition from the current regulatory period to RIIO-ED1 beginning in April of 2015.
That completes the more detailed financial overview.
And I will now turn the call over to Paul for a brief update on the progress being made on the Supply spinoff.
Paul? Thanks Vince and good morning everyone.
My update today will be pretty quick.
We've been extremely busy since the June 9 announcement.
And on Slide 16 we outlined some of the major milestones and activities currently underway.
Last week we received commitments for a new $1.85 billion 5-year revolving credit facility for Talen Energy that will be available when the transaction closes.
Earlier this month Riverstone successfully executed its planned $1.25 billion bond offering to refinance the project-level debt at Raven Jade and Sapphire.
This debt will be assumed by PPL Energy Supply when the generation businesses are merged.
The bonds carry a 5-year maturity and a 5.125% coupon subject to a 50-basis-point step down if Talen achieves certain targeted credit ratings at the time of the merger.
Finally we completed 3 of the 4 planned regulatory filings this month.
We filed a Section 203 application with FERC citing 2 separate market mitigation proposals an application with the NRC for the indirect transfer of the Susquehanna nuclear licenses and an application with the PaPUC here in Pennsylvania for the change of control of the IEC pipeline utility just yesterday.
The DOJ filing is on schedule for the fall this year given their review process.
This progress keeps us on schedule for an expected closing of Q1 or Q2 next year as Bill mentioned.
And we'll keep you updated along the way.
With that I will turn it over to Bill for the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Paul.
And operator we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from Kit Konolige with BGC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow a little bit on the new guidance with respect to Supply.
Can you go into a little more detail about -- I am not sure I completely understood the second quarter showed gains on mark-to-market that reverses later this year.
But the net is still better for the year if I understand it.
And then can you also address what kind of hedging actions you took looking forward during the second quarter.
Sure but you're absolutely right.
We expect some of the gains that we experienced in the second quarter there were -- in the middle of the year.
But still it would be a net positive.
Vince can probably provide a bit color on the exact numbers there.
So...
Sure Kit.
Thanks for the question.
Yes the Supply $0.06 is really -- you could think of it half of it is just improved margins from the baseload $0.03.
And the other half is improved M&amp;T margins $0.02 of which is coming from the unrealized gains.
Yes.
Okay.
And Paul do you want to cover the other part of the question? Yes.
Kit when you look in the back in the appendix that it looked like our hedges decreased in 2015.
That's primarily because on a economic dispatch modeling basis with the improved prices that we saw in the second quarter more generation was economic.
And so there just simply more generation.
Given our target hedging program kind of 1 year forward to be about 75% hedged looking forward to the transaction we're pretty much on schedule with those hedge levels.
So we weren't doing a significant amount of hedging for '15.
We did do some for '16 though on that 25% year-to-mark.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And well just to follow on that a little bit do you expect the new Talen hedging strategy to be similar to that or will that be a whole new ballgame? Yes that will be pretty close to that at 75% 1 year; 25% second year.
We're also doing 100% of the retail in utility load following hedging out of the generation book which is a little bit different.
And one way to think about that is we'll just simply be constrained from a liquidity perspective.
We're basically increasing the amount of generation that has to be hedged by about 50% with a 50% reduction between the size of liquidity facilities and cash that we've got.
So it's just -- it's a liquidity-targeting exercise.
Just like it was when it was Energy Supply but we had bigger facilities and a smaller fleet.
And the next question comes from Dan Eggers with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Bill can you maybe get a little bit more into this transmission project today? I guess kind of how the process works from announcing looking at something to where we'll see action.
What kind of dollars you have to spend upfront? And then if you look at the challenges you guys had with Roseland and other folks have had in the past trying to build these new Pennsylvania East type of transmission lines how you guys think you're going to approach it to make it a higher chance of success? Sure.
So the processes itself is one that's not been well traveled in the past as you know.
It's a relatively new process.
So we'll continue to work with all the stakeholders to make sure that we do everything in our power to make sure that we get this approved on a -- as timely a basis as we can.
Maybe I'll ask Greg to take you through kind of what we understand to be some of the key milestones and processes we have to do to make this a reality so Greg? Yes thanks.
So first off is the filings.
So PJM had a window that just closed recently.
So this project Project Compass was filed as part of that window.
As far as the approvals are concerned so this project not only is part of PJM but also goes into the New York ISO still need approvals from both entities.
Also we'll need state approvals as well as utility commission approvals.
So for me what increases the probability of success is just the compelling nature of this project.
When you think about what's happened in the industry over the past year the polar vortex substation security being a big issue coal retirements being a big issue.
This project really pulls all those issues together and provides significant benefits to the consumers in the region.
So I think it's the compelling nature of the benefits of this project that will help the project move forward.
We are putting together an outreach plan.
In fact I've started this morning to get people that will be involved in the project up to speed and be looking to work with others to make sure that this is a success.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we should -- this will be I guess probably a little quiet from our perspective for -- in a period of time while you get your ducks in a row.
Is that kind of how we should think about it? Yes I would say so.
Because of all the entities we have to work with my sense is that we have a better idea about the timeline as far as approvals probably by the end of this year.
But it should be fairly quiet from your perspective.
Research Division</strong> And then the money you guys are putting into it now is there a route for recovery if this is not successful or is this money you guys are burying on PPL for the time being? Yes this is something that is not recoverable.
So we'll -- if it doesn't go forward then we'll just had to eat that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just Paul just a logistical question but with the work that's actually done on Susquehanna is still next year and the timing of the IPO how have you guys arranged to source the funding on the capital both for the outage and also for the work that's got to get done? Yes.
So when we signed the transaction documents with Riverstone basically at that time the 2 companies are pretty much economically tied at the hip.
From the standpoint of the cash that's generated by the business except for the payment of shared services taxes and a fixed dividend stream the cash stays in the business.
So it's the cash that will be there at close.
It's cash from the mitigation with whichever of the 2 packages we pursue and sell those assets.
It's the liquidity facilities that we have in place.
So there's very ample liquidity to fund an outage.
And remember all of the capital expenditures that relate to equipment replacement are under warranty with Siemens and that's on their nickel and not ours.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just -- can you remind what the process is going to be determine which package of assets gets chosen for sale and what we should watch the timeline for that happening? Well we requested 2 different packages.
So just to remind everybody the first package is the Sapphire.
Most of the Sapphire portfolio from Riverstone and the Ironwood plant.
The second package is than same Sapphire portion of the portfolio the Crane facility in Baltimore and the Holtwood Wallenpaupack facilities here in Pennsylvania.
We will be approaching the market even in advance of receiving approvals to gauge investor interest and we'll move forward with both packages and determine which of those has the best outcome from a share and value perspective for Talen shareowners.
They look at the relative level of EBITDA and cash flow that the asset portfolios generate versus sale proceeds that we think we can secure in an auction process.
And the next question comes from Greg Gordon with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> So the U.K.
the guidance range in the U.K.
to now at $1 was it $1.30 to a $1.42 and the final guidance range was $1.17 to $1.33.
I think the last comment you made was that you'd be at the high end of that prior guidance range.
So what can you tell us in terms of how we should think about where you'll fall out in 2016 within the $1.30 or $1.42? What are the key drivers that would swing you towards the low end or the high end there? Okay let me ask Rick Klingensmith to respond to that question.
Sure.
In 2016 the midpoint of the range is $1.36.
And as Vince mentioned significant drivers that get us there have been lower revenues but offset by O&amp;M reductions as well.
But it's been predominantly tax planning has helped us currency has helped us as we're now forecasting $1.67 per pound versus $1.58 per pound and lower pension expense has helped us as well to keep us within the high end and actually surpass the range that we provided you last July to where the ranges are today.
And so it would really be changes in those assumptions that would drive us to the high or low end of the range that you see for 2016 around that $1.36 midpoint.
So those are the major factors that were driving that.
Research Division</strong> Have you substantially hedged the position on currency or is that just sort of a mark-to-market? In 2016 we're about 56% hedged at a rate of about $1.66.
And so the unhedged portion about half of it remains as an open position for currency in 2016.
Research Division</strong> Do you have a sensitivity on the remaining position? On the remaining position of sort of a $0.05 change in currency it's about approximately $12 million change in earnings.
Research Division</strong> I also noticed that the rate base slide -- the rate base numbers for the total regulated side of the business are up substantially but that's all on the U.K.
side of the business? That correct and that's all currency driven.
So the change in assumption from that $1.58 to $1.67 is the change in the dollar value of those.
There has been no change in the pound component of the RAV or the CapEx.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And a question for you Paul.
As we look at Talen you're one of the generating companies that's the most exposed to a widening basis in the Northeast both positive and negatively lead to the negative.
Can you tell your investors sort of what's the strategy? Are you going to run substantially open in that business in order to not -- in order to capture volatility and avoid having to sort of hedge in at these weak current forward curves? I mean how do we think about it if we're trying to value that entity and we're using the forward curve as a base case? That's not a very good base case so how do we get comfortable that there's a good business proposition there given current market conditions? Where we're sitting I mean on a peak basis at least do you focus on '15 or '16.
We're sitting pretty much right between where we started the year and the peak of the prices kind of that we saw in the June type time frame.
We're still seeing on a gas-basis perspective some of the benefits from the polar vortex in the winter period.
In the summer period.
If you look at gas it's a bit softer whether you look at TETCO or whether you look at Marcellus base numbers we have not simply not had.
So we had extraordinary weather in January and we've had literally no summer yet.
So we've had no -- while no summer here and we're just starting to have a summer in Texas.
So I think when you think about the pricing I still think that the low 50 -- 50 to 52 53 on a peak basis numbers are achievable.
I think we'll see another rally as we get towards winter as we typically do in that time of the year.
We are as you said not compulse to hedge.
And as I mentioned when I answered an earlier question simply on a liquidity basis our targets are much lower than they were when inside PPL and trying to derisk that as much as we could.
We simply won't be able to given that we'll have lower liquidity to post as collateral against the hedge positions.
And we do want to run more open as you indicated to take advantage of price improvements when they come.
And the next question is from Julien Dumoulin-Smith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> So with regards to divestment process.
I'd be curious why more than 1 gigawatt? I mean I suppose is this just driven by your analysis about what's necessary? Or was there kind of any market view there about trying to get rid of portfolios in the entire of the year just -- any other reason there? Julien this is Paul.
There really is -- there's no change.
When we talked about it on the day of the announcement we talked about a 1 000 megawatts of baseload equivalent.
When you look at the Sapphire portfolio which is simple cycle and combined cycle it's less efficient combined cycle plants oil and gas in Jersey.
When you look at Ironwood today as Bill indicated at 98% capacity factor has more baseload.
The Crane plant has a very low capacity factor on an annual basis.
And then the hydros are 55% to 60% run on river plants.
It's just when you do the math that gets you each of them to a 1 000 megawatts of baseload equivalent.
They happen to be roughly the same in terms of total megawatts at 13 50-ish but but it's really the equivalency that that we're trying to get to.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And could you talk a little bit to your coal hedging? I mean that seems to switch around a little bit here but perhaps that might be due to the generation? It's generation related that's correct.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Excellent.
And just to clarify here in terms of what you were saying before the CapEx changes entirety are due strictly to the FX change right? There is nothing fundamental underlying that at all right? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Excellent.
And just to be clear as well when you're thinking about the process I suppose there's a little bit of uncertainty there.
You wouldn't expect that the change as the rest of the process of those who were not fast-tracked ultimately get their decisions out.
The CapEx is not likely change at that point either? No there would be no change.
And the next question comes from Neel Mitra of Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Question on the transmission project.
It looks like the map you provided the starting points are really kind of where the new CCGTs that are announced for PJM in '16 and '17 are being built.
Is the -- is kind of the economic reason for the project that some of those gas plants that are going to be built right on top of the shales they just don't have enough transmission capacity to get to where they need to to provide reliability? Or is there another real economic benefit that I'm not seeing? Well there's a number of potential benefits and I'll let Greg describe some of those.
But that clearly could be one of them but there are others as well.
Got it.
And so I would say when we are -- when potential generators come to us one of the issues is they need to obviously connect to our transmission.
And in some cases that can be very very high cost.
So part of the thinking on the economics is if we sited through the region the cost to connect for those generators would be much less.
So again with potential coal retirements we think there's economic advantage for that on a going-forward basis.
And we use pretty conservative assumptions around generation retirements.
But beyond that there are reliability benefits.
Again we talked about substation security.
There are benefits that actually we didn't really factor in the economics.
But I think there'll be a significant economic benefit there reduced congestion.
So all that when you factor all those together it is a significant positive economic benefit to the consumers.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then a question for Paul.
With Talen I think you mentioned that you'd want to expand in west PJM in Texas and wanted just to question on how you think about timing for acquiring assets? Would you do it before the spinoff? And what's -- when you look at the market what's the optimal time to be buying assets? Would you rather be buying right now with what's up for sale? Or would you rather wait till next year? Well we're following all the processes that are going on right now.
So we know everything that's on the market.
We think we know what's coming on the market in fall and in spring.
So we're actively following it and if there was something that was compelling there wouldn't be anything provided we reached a consensus around that.
With Riverstone there wouldn't be anything that would prevent us from approaching the market right now.
So I think anything that's in PJM that would have the potential to complicate any aspect of the regulatory approval processes especially when we've got known market power issues to deal with it probably wouldn't be a high probability.
But as we move through time and we secure those approvals and they agree with the mitigation plans provided that the area of PJM we'd be buying in wouldn't further complicate that there'd be no problem there.
So we're actively watching that as we said right now.
But as I said we've got the hydro sale process underway in Montana.
We're looking at some other potential noncore asset disposals.
We've got the mitigation processes that we're going to be evaluating as well so the deal team has quite a bit on the plate already as well.
So we'll be judicious.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So when you talk about not complicating the divestment process would West PJM complicate that? Or would that be separate from 10 of the Central East PJM divestitures you're looking at? Yes.
I mean as long as we're well west of 50 or 4 50 or 5 then I think that wouldn't complicate things.
So yes we wouldn't be against it if the right opportunity came along.
And the next question comes from Jonathan Arnold with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a question.
I think when you announced the Talen spin you talked about an aspiration of growth out of the ongoing PPL of at least 4%.
Can you talk about the new transmission projects in the context of that? And are you -- are there other things you're working on that might be kind of closer at hand than this? This is obviously a fairly long way out that might enable you to give us a bit more clarity around sort of where in that north of 4% range you'd expect to be over some reasonable period of time? Sure.
I would say that the 4% minimum that we articulated upon the announcement of Talen spin for the regulated businesses did not reflect anything of the magnitude of this type of project that we're talking about here.
So this would certainly add to that growth trajectory if you will.
Should it be approved and ultimately started of course.
It is further out on the horizon.
Relative to where the growth will come from I think it's -- there's nothing I think magical about where's it going to come from.
It's really executing the business plans we have.
We've provided today as you know some updated guidance on the U.K.
which is improved from previous guidance.
And then we'll continue to execute I think transmission and distribution opportunities in Pennsylvania as well as a lot of our environmental CapEx spending in Kentucky all of which I think is pretty transparent and visible in the CapEx plans and the rate base growths that we've articulated.
So I think we have a very good plan to achieve the minimum 4%.
I don't think it requires a lot of heavy lifting or Herculean assumptions for us to get there.
I think it's a very achievable plan and one that we're committed to.
Research Division</strong> Bill can you just remind me what -- did you articulate a specific base from which that was? We should think about that? Yes we did.
The base was on 2015 so -- I'm sorry 2014 x Supply so we provided the numbers there.
And so it's off that base.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on -- I think you just -- I think in another question you gave the answer to how hedged you are on U.K.
currency for 2016.
How about 2015? 2015 we're at 98% hedged at an average rate of $1.63.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just one final thing on there.
You guys have typically excluded mark-to-market type moves in the Supply business.
What's the reason for leaving in this $0.04 this quarter? Yes let me take that one.
This is Paul.
So we've done financial transactions supported by third-party generation in the past.
This one just simply didn't meet the accounting designation for carve-out in that policy for us.
And so just based on our internal accounting policies it flows through.
But as Vince said there is only a very small amount of it that is in the forecast for the end of the year.
And as things have come off from a price and smart-grid perspective even in the July-type time frame some of that benefits already been reverted out since June.
And the next question comes from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
A lot of my questions have been answered.
But just -- and I know it's some way off in the future here but when the transmission line is built what do you expect it to do to the market? Is there any basis differential or any sort of impact you could sort of suggest that sort of in the ballpark that would happen as a result of these major projects.
Yes as you can imagine because it is so far out and there's so many moving pieces coal retirements how many new gas pipelines may be built to move shale gas away from the constrained areas and so forth that we really don't have a forecast that we could point you to suggest which way prices would move as a result of this transmission project.
Okay.
And no part of the project is going to be really done before 2023 is that correct? That's our target.
So with it the earliest would be 2023.
Okay.
And then just on the tax valuation.
I'm sorry if I missed this.
What actually sort of drove that impact? What happened there? Sure.
I'll let Vince take that one.
Sure.
What happened was we have net operating loss carryforwards for tax assets related to those sitting at the parent company of Energy Supply.
And the earnings of Energy Supply were really supporting those assets on the books.
And so when we announced the spin it no longer -- we can no longer assert that those earnings would be able to support those deferred tax assets.
And so we took the valuation allowance against those.
And the next question comes from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just real curious.
Can you talk about PPL Corp.'s cash tax position for 2014 and maybe the next couple of years going forward through 2015 2016 meaning how much of the cash taxpayer you expect to be relative to GAAP taxes? And does the Talen transaction impact that at all? Yes Vince wants to take that.
Sure.
So on a federal basis our estimated tax position there would be basically 0 as a result of NOLs.
And bonus depreciation still carryover effects from that so it's very little.
Research Division</strong> And when would you expect to become a cash taxpayer again at the PPL Corp.
level post Talen spin? I would say in the '17 '18 time frame.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So cash taxes a pretty big source of cash flow.
How do you think about allocating that meaning do you anticipate you would likely be utilizing that cash flow to help pay for rate base growth of some of the subs to delever as well? I'm just trying to kind of think through that because that's kind of a big number when you start getting to the out years.
Yes so the cash flow -- that cash flow position just goes into our sources and uses of funds.
And the largest use of our funds is our CapEx program and our rate base growth.
And so those -- that cash is being used to fund that growth.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Bill just curious when you walk across the different segments what's your thought process just in terms of rate case timing at the U.S.
Regulated businesses? Yes so maybe I'll ask Greg and then Vic to talk about Pennsylvania and then Kentucky.
Greg? Yes so as far as timing for Pennsylvania we don't at this point obviously see a need for a rate case in '14 and we're looking at the possibility in '15.
And in Kentucky I think I've said before we would anticipate some kind of rate case filed by the end of the year.
And then as we continue with our capital construction program we would anticipate filing cases probably every other year thereafter.
But we never -- much of our recovery of our capital expenditures is through our environmental recovery mechanism so I'm talking about base rate cases here.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And Greg in Pennsylvania you're thinking just sometime in 2015 potential file of forward-looking test year for 2016? That's correct.
We haven't made a final determination but if we do file it would be a forward-looking test year.
And the next question comes from Steven Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Bill a couple of questions.
First the updated guidance for '14.
How are you incorporating the kind of mild July and it looks like maybe mild August if at all is that in there? Or are you using normal? I would say we're predominantly using normal but I don't think -- it remains to be seen what August is going to be at this point.
But July I don't think is going to have a meaningful impact on the range at this point.
This is Paul.
One other quick thing remember we're so heavily hedged this year that to the extent that we see below normal weather that's actually been a benefit for us because instead of generating from some of our plants at higher prices we're buy -- having the opportunity to either buy it from the market or run our gas plants as cash gas has been so low.
So around a number of ranges and assumptions of whether we feel really good about the supply numbers.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
Second question is -- I'm not sure you can provide this but just is there any way you can give us any sense of kind of mark-to-market update numbers for Talen given what's happened with pricing for '15? Yes let me ask Paul.
Yes that's -- it's really hard for us to do.
We've given you in the appendix the updates to the hedge positions on fuel and on power.
Due to any trust restrictions we're not able to have access to the Riverstone side of the equation.
So until we get to very close to close we won't be able to provide updates relative to their base there.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Understood.
And just in thinking about the utility growth rate so the U.K.
that you gave here is kind of flattish '14 to '16.
That 60% of your earnings roughly I think.
So that mean the other 40% need to grow around 10% to get the 4% overall? And I think you have a rate base growth to do that but I just wanted to kind of make sure if I'm thinking about that right.
And you feel good you can get to that at the non-U.K.
No you're thinking about that exactly correctly.
And that's factored into how we get to the 4%.
I mean obviously if we look at the domestic utilities they're growing significantly in terms of EPS over the period.
And we've got that flattish growth in U.K.
that dilutes that a bit.
But this still keeps us I think squarely in the ballgame in terms of many of our peers with the 4% minimum growth target for EPS.
So we do feel good about our capability to achieve that even given the U.K.
mix.
LLC</strong> Just in the context of the peer regulated company going forward you'll get that money in.
Obviously I think the U.K.
otherwise funds itself.
And then you need to fund these rate base growth and the dividend.
Can you just kind of talk about the overall utility funding plan without having any access to cash from supply? Sure.
Vince go ahead.
Sure.
So I don't want to go too far out because obviously a lot of things change in terms of year-to-year cash flows and assumptions.
But putting financing going into the next couple of years we're pretty much set for 2014 domestically.
We're not expecting any additional debt issuances there.
Our funding plans do include the $1 billion of proceeds coming in 2014 about 900 coming from the Montana hydro sale and then we just received in July the $108 million treasury grant from Holtwood.
Both of those proceeds are staying with Corp.
[ph] so they helped to fund that CapEx plan significantly going into '15.
We have about $1 billion of debt coming due next year in the domestic utilities.
And 900 of that is in Kentucky another 100 of that is in EU.
The Kentucky debt is 400 up at wholesale level.
We'll just pay that off.
And then we have 250 at each of the opcos first mortgage bonds.
We'll just refinance those with first mortgage bonds down with the utilities and the same thing with the $100 million at Electric Utilities we'll just refinance with first mortgage bonds.
So we'll do as much financing down at the opcos as we can.
If we need to adjust the cap structures we'll do that up at cap funding as we have been doing.
And then we'll just maintain the credit metrics that we need to keep our investment-grade credit ratings really what we expect to come out of the uptick that we expect to get coming out of the Talen spin.
No concerns from a financing plan assumption going forward.
[Operator Instructions] And we do have a question from Rajeev Lalwani from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on the transmission project that you announced.
Can you provide some insight on any competing projects that PJM is also looking at? At the moment we're not aware of any competing projects.
This is a very unique project that I'm very proud of the team here that came up with the concept and the forward thinking to put something of this nature in front of PJM.
So we're not aware of any competing projects.
And the requests that PJM have had have been smaller projects to basically address some relatively small reliability concerns.
I think there 4 or 5 of them.
And this project and I response to some of those but it goes well beyond that.
Again with something that we think is very unique and compelling from a stakeholder process -- perspective.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just a question on the U.K.
side.
You've provided guidance through '16 and you've got relatively flattish earnings growth.
Can you talk about beyond that period as you get into I guess the new rate cycle? What do you think growth can do there? Yes we haven't provided forward growth estimates for the U.K.
that far out at this point.
But as you can imagine there is a point at which the earnings will grow again once we get through the dip if you will in this period as the old rates roll off and old incentives roll off and then as we begin to build the rate base we'll see earnings growth further out in the plan.
So there will be a dip and then a recovery over time.
But we'll provide future guidance at a future date but for right now that's just generally speaking kind of the trajectory.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly kind of a higher-level question.
You talked about M&amp;A on the Talen side.
Can you talk about M&amp;A on this standalone or future standalone PPL side whether you're looking to be an acquirer or maybe an acquiree? Just some thought there.
Sure.
While we would continue to look at opportunities to grow PPL post-Talen spin on the regulated side and think there will be opportunities over time whether we're successful or not obviously remains to be seen.
I think we have a very solid business plan that will I think improve earnings as well as our stock price over time.
So I can't really comment on whether we're a target or not and if we are I think we have a very solid plan and the best thing we can do is execute the plan and continue to meet expectations which we've got a very solid track record of doing so.
But certainly we would consider M&amp;A.
We don't want to maintain our relative size at a minimum to maintain our relevancy in the sector as a large cap electric utility.
So I think generally speaking that is probably all I can say at this point.
Operator we're approaching our time limit.
And I know it's a busy day of earnings for everybody so we'll take one more question.
And that comes from Angie Storozynski with Macquarie.
Okay so I have 3 questions.
One is could you comment about your power hedges for the PPL Supply beyond '15.
Did you add any hedges to your '16 or '17 positions? Paul? Yes I did mention earlier that we didn't do a lot of hedging activity in the quarter for '15 but we did layer in positions as we saw the strength in power prices in the quarter for '16.
I mentioned a 25% target there and we're meaningfully on our way to getting to that level.
Perfect.
Separately on the utilities could you talk about your dividend growth prospects after the other spinoff of PPL to buy? Sure.
So when we announced the Talen transaction I mentioned on the call that we would continue to maintain the current dividend and look for opportunities to grow it over time with the expectation that meaningful growth could come after we get through the large CapEx spending plans that we have over the next several years.
But our perspective on the dividend and it's growth will not change from where we have been to where we will be post Talen spin.
So roughly the pickup in the dividends we shouldn't expect until what? '17 later than 2017? I think.
Probably out in that time frame is the right way to think of more meaningful growth potential for the dividend and then in the meantime we're going to continue to maintain and probably grow it slightly between now and then.
Okay.
And lastly on the transmission project I know it's many years out but just looking at how the Susquehanna-Roseland went and the 3-year delay to cross what a 3-mile stretch through the Delaware Water Gap even though there was an existing right of away.
I mean obviously we don't see exactly how this proposed line goes but should we expect similar issues with siting of the transmission line? Greg do want to take one? Sure.
Thanks.
So certainly when you're talking about a 725 mile line siting is going to be a big issue.
So we will work with all the stakeholders.
We've had success actually Susquehanna-Roseland is a great example.
So it took us a while but we were building through a national park.
And I think it had been very successful.
I think the folks there appreciate the care we took of the park and so I think our reputation is good in that area and that's why I think we'll be successful.
So this proposed line doesn't go through any national parks or any environmental -- that shouldn't face any environmental issues? No national parks.
Right.
Okay.
Thanks everyone for joining us on the call today.
And have a good rest for the day.
Thank you.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your line.
Have a nice day.
Welcome to the PPL Corporation Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the conference over to Joe Bergstein Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining the PPL conference call on third quarter results and our general business outlook.
We're providing slides of this presentation on our website at www.pplweb.com.
Any statements made in this presentation about future operating results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
A discussion of factors that could cause actual results or events to differ is contained in the appendix to this presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Bill Spence PPL Chairman President and CEO.
Thank you Joe.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
With me on the call this morning are Vince Sorgi PPL's Chief Financial Officer and the Presidents of our four business segments.
Moving to slide 3 our agenda this morning starts with an overview of third quarter earnings and operational results and an update on our 2014 earnings forecast which we have raised for the third time this year.
After my remarks Vince will review our segment financials and then we will take your questions.
Looking back on our performance through the first nine months of 2014 we put an impressive year together delivering solid results while overcoming some challenges brought on by Mother Nature and executing on a substantial strategic effort positioning the company for future success.
We continue to invest heavily in our regulated infrastructure enhancing grid reliability for customers in each of our service territories and providing an avenue of stable returns for our investors and at supply the team has in a great job of managing both base load and intermediate fleets which is reflected in the continuous improvement in our expected results throughout the year.
We expect to carry this momentum through the remainder of 2014 continuing our approach of excellence and execution and identifying ways to deliver value.
Let's move onto third quarter results.
Turning to slide 4 today we announced reported earnings of $0.74 per share for the third quarter that is an increase from $0.62 per share in the third quarter of 2013.
Adjusting for special items our earnings from ongoing operations were $0.54 per share in the quarter a decrease from $0.66 per share in the third quarter of last year.
Year-to-date reported earnings were $1.57 per share compared to $1.90 per share in the first nine months of 2013.
Earnings per share from ongoing operations for the first nine months of the year were $1.87 an increase from $1.85 per share in the same period a year ago.
Strong year-to-date performance in our regulated businesses combined with continuing strong performance in our competitive energy supply business has led to exceptional results through the first nine months of the year.
Our domestic utilities improved earnings from ongoing operations by a combined $60 million year-over-year primarily resulting from returns on additional transmission investments in Pennsylvania power plant environmental projects in Kentucky and higher sales volumes.
The improved sales volumes were primarily driven by weather as the mild spring and summer were more than offset by unusually cold weather in the first quarter of this year.
Let's move to slide 5 for an update on our 2014 ongoing earnings forecast.
Our continuing strong results led us to announce today an increase of our ongoing earnings forecast to $2.37 to $2.47 per share.
The new mid-point $2.42 per share is $0.12 higher than the mid-point we announced in August and almost 13% higher than the midpoint of the initial 2014 forecast which we provided in the first quarter.
On the regulated front we see an improvement in the UK regulated segment earnings and remain on track in our domestic utilities.
As you can see on this slide our forecast increase is primarily driven by higher expected earnings from supply.
The strong 2014 performance of PPL's competitive energy supply business underscores the inherent value of this business and its ongoing potential as market fundamentals improve.
These 2014 results provide additional confirmation that the spinoff of our supply segment will create significant short- and long-term value for our shareowners.
Vince will discuss the details of our updated forecast in a few minutes.
Now let's turn to slide 6 for an update on our regulated operations.
Starting in the UK we're pleased to announce that WPD earned a combined $130 million in annual bonus revenues for its premier customer service and reliability metrics for the regulatory year ending March 31 2014.
This is a $17 million increase over the previous regulatory year.
We expect OpGen [ph] to confirm this amount by the end of 2014.
In Kentucky we're announcing today our plans to file a rate case later this month.
We provided a high level summary of the filing on slide 7 which I will discuss in a few moments.
On a last quarterly call we had just announced Project Compass a proposed 725 mile transmission line through the shale gas regions of Pennsylvania and into New York and New Jersey and Maryland.
We’ve been meeting with officials at the state PUCs and governor's offices in the states where customers will benefit Pennsylvania New Jersey New York and Maryland.
Those meetings have gone well overall and we plan to have continuing dialogues on the project benefits.
We're also meeting with other key agencies and other transmission operators in the region.
We will continue to update you as we reach project milestones.
Turning to the Kentucky filing on slide 7 our requests are for increases in annual basis electric rates of $30 million and $150 million at LG&amp;E and KU respectively and an increase in annual base gas rates of $14 million at LG&amp;E.
The increases are principally driven by investments in generation supply and other infrastructure investments needed to maintain and enhance the safe reliable delivery of electricity and natural gas to our customers and to meet federal environmental regulations.
The single biggest investment driving the requested increase is the company's new natural gas combined cycle plants Cane Run 7 which is scheduled to go into service in May of 2015.
The filing will be based upon a forward test year and in June 30 2016 assuming an ROE of 10.5% with new rates effective July of 2015.
Moving to slide 8 let's take a brief look at sales volumes in our domestic utility operations.
In Kentucky for the quarter and trailing 12 months strong industrial load growth has more than offset the weakness experienced in residential and commercial sales leading to overall weather normalized sales growth of about 0.1% and 0.5% respectively.
The industrial growth has been driven by expansions and increased production at some of our larger customer's facilities.
Mild weather in Q3 of this year negatively impacted actual sales volumes relative to last year.
In Pennsylvania we experienced a modest decline in weather normalized sales quarter-over-quarter primarily driven by lower residential sales.
On an actual basis cooling degree days were down by roughly 14% which drove weak demand from residential customers weather normalized commercial sales were up over 1% which helped offset some of the residential weaknesses while industrial sales were relatively flat for the quarter.
PA weather normalized sales continue to trend in positive territory at about 0.5% for the trailing 12 months.
Moving to slide 9 let's talk first about the progress related to the spinoff of our competitive generation business which will be combined with Riverstone's competitive generation business to form Talen Energy.
Discussions with regulatory agencies are proceeding as expected and there have been no surprises in the process.
We still anticipate closing in either the first or second quarter of 2015.
The Talen Energy transition team headed by Paul Farr President of PPL Energy Supply is on track to achieve at least $155 million in annual run rate synergies for Talen which was a target we had established.
Separately at PPL we have identified a targeted annual support cost savings to eliminate at least $75 million of disynergies created by the spin most of which will be achieved in 2015.
These cost savings are also consistent with the targeted reductions discussed when we announced the spinoff transaction in June.
Moving on to the pending sale of the Montana Hydro facilities to Northwestern Energy I'm pleased to report that the Montana Public Service Commission has approved the transaction.
FERC approved Northwestern Energy's financing plans for the transaction last week clearing the way for an expected closing by year end.
Just a brief update on the Susquehanna plant as you know we installed redesigned shortened last stage blades on one of the Unit 1 low-pressure turbine this past spring.
Our continuous monitoring of turbine performance shows that the new shorter blades have significantly reduced blade tip vibration.
We're finalizing plans to install these shorter blades on the remaining low-pressure turbines over the next couple of refueling outages starting with multiple turbines on Unit 2 during the refueling outage next spring.
We don't expect to need special turbine maintenance outages after these modifications are completed.
Turning to a summary of plant performance for the quarter you will notice from our updated hedge disclosures in the appendix that our 2014 expected base load output declined by about 3 gigawatt hours since our last update.
The primary driver of this decrease was due to lower than planned output from our Eastern coal facilities during the quarter as depressed load and prices from mild summer weather led to a 30% average capacity factor for the period.
While actual coal generation was down given these lower prices our hedging program proved beneficial as we captured value for the portfolio through the financial settlement of the higher priced forward sales contracts.
Excellent plan performance from our natural gas units which ran at a 98% capacity factor also added value as spark spreads improved in the third quarter driven by very low spot natural gas pricing.
Before we move onto Vince's comments I would like take this opportunity to say that PPL employees have done an excellent job in designing and implementing a transition process that will allow Talen Energy to operate safely and efficiently on day one and will result in a more streamlined corporate structure for the remaining businesses of PPL Corporation.
And we're doing the significant transition work while maintaining our focus on business results reliability safety.
2014 has obviously been an eventful year for PPL one in which we're blazing new paths and growing value for shareowners even while we continue to provide the highest quality service to our customers.
Our high level of performance during this challenging year further strengthens my confidence that both PPL and Talen Energy will be very successful companies for years to come.
I look forward to your questions after we hear some additional earnings details from Vince Sorgi.
Vince? Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
Let's move to slide 10 PPL's third quarter earnings from ongoing operations decreased from last year driven primarily by lower earnings at our competitive supply segment the Kentucky regulated segment and the UK regulated segment.
Let's move to the detailed segment review starting with the UK results on slide 11.
Our UK regulated segment earned $0.28 per share in the third quarter a $0.03 decrease from last year.
This decrease was due to higher income taxes from a UK tax benefit recorded in the third quarter of 2013 and higher U.S.
taxes in the 2014 related to cash repatriation.
We had higher financing costs from higher debt balances to fund our CapEx and higher depreciation from assets placed in service.
These negative earnings drivers were partially offset by higher utility revenues due to the net result of higher prices and lower volumes primarily driven by weather and lower O&amp;M driven by lower pension expense.
Moving to slide 12 Kentucky earned $0.12 per share in the third quarter a $0.02 decrease compared to a year ago.
This decrease was primarily driven by higher O&amp;M and higher financing costs from higher debt balances to fund the CapEx.
In addition higher margins from environmental capital investments were offset by lower sales volume due to mild weather.
Turning to slide 13 our Pennsylvania regulated segment earned $0.08 per share in the quarter flat compared to last year with higher returns on additional transmission capital investments of about $0.01 being offset by multiple minor earnings drivers.
Moving to slide 14 our competitive generation segment earned $0.07 per share in the third quarter a decrease of $0.07 compared to last year.
This decrease was primarily the result of lower Eastern Energy margins driven by lower hedged base load energy prices and lower capacity prices partially offset by favorable asset performance at our base load units.
Lower margins were partially offset by lower O&amp;M at our fossil facilities lower financing costs and lower income taxes resulting from a negative adjustment to deferred tax assets recorded in 2013.
Let's move to slide 15 and review in more detail our updated earnings forecast.
As Bill noted we're raising and tightening our 2014 earnings guidance this morning.
Of the $0.12 increase to the mid-point we added $0.07 at supply primarily drive by higher projected margins the lower depreciation the lower financing costs and lower income taxes.
We also increased the UK regulated segment mid-point by $0.03 driven by higher revenues lower O&amp;M from lower network maintenance expenses and lower financing costs.
These are all consistent with what we have been experiencing through the first nine months of the year.
These positive drivers were partially offset by higher U.S.
income taxes related to a legal entity restructuring we completed at the end of October.
You may have read about that reorganization as both S&amp;P and Moody's issued and reaffirmed our credit ratings on Friday for the applicable WPD entities that have third-party debt outstanding.
The restructuring brings ownership of all four distribution network operators under a single UK holding company better positioning our UK operations for further debt issuances.
From a cash repatriation perspective we will incur some additional U.S.
tax in 2014 as certain of the steps within the restructuring were taxable transactions.
However the new structure also provides future flexibility for how we source our cash repatriation from the UK.
In addition to increasing supply in the UK our expectations for corporate and other also improved by $0.02 primarily from lower expected O&amp;M as we're not filling open positions as we work through the various transition efforts.
That completes the more detail financial overview.
And I'll now turn the call back over to Bill for the Q&amp;A.
Bill? Okay.
Thank you Vince.
And operator we're ready for questions.
A couple of questions first on the UK this is like for the fourth or fifth time you've raised guidance for 2014 which is great momentum.
Looking at $1.38 when I think about that your 2015 midpoint for the 2015 guidance you’ve given for PPL post the spin you got a $1.36 embedded in there at the to 2015 midpoint which will be $0.02 below your guidance for '14 now.
Is there any reason to believe that there is some significant potential downside in earnings off the $1.38 this year? Is there something happening on the revenue line or expense line with currency that we need to think about as we think about where you'd be inside that guidance range? Sure.
Well you'll recall that next year for at least a portion of the year beginning April 1 we start the new Reo revenue reset.
So there's a step down in revenue on the top line that we'll experience next year.
Somewhat offset by higher than expected or -- and then initially communicated bonus revenues that we've recently been awarded in the last cycle.
I'll ask Rick Klingensmith President of our Global Business to comment on any other drivers or factors including currency.
Rick? As bill mentioned Greg the major affect for us next year is the revenue change that comes as a result of the REO ED-1 implementation on April 1.
So that's what's really driving the earnings downward as compared to this year's $1.38 offsetting that we'll see some lower U.S.
and UK income taxes.
As Vince had mentioned about some of the cash repatriations and the restructuring that we just went through we'll see a benefit within our earnings next year for that.
With the hedging that we did on the currency side we're seeing some benefits as well when next year's earnings to help offset and mitigate the revenue decline as a result of the REO ED-1.
And so the $1.36 that we’re forecasting for next year incorporates the decline as well as some of the upsides that we're seeing from tax and currency as well.
And the regulated segment bonus revenues that you talked about on slide 6 $130 million $17 million increase when do those actually start to flow through and what was your expectation that you baked into the midpoint of your guidance? Sure.
The expectation was exactly that because when we provided that guidance earlier this year we had completed our year and which is the end of March and so we knew what the results were we just had to go through an audit process to be able to confirm and ensure that the results were accurate.
And so what we have in our midpoint for next year was exactly that 130 million as we move forward.
Okay.
Switching to PPL supply am I right in looking at the slides and comparing them to the last disclosure that expected generation in 2015 from your intermediate and peeking fleet is about up about 3 kWh? What's caused you to -- if that’s in fact accurate -- what's caused you to recalibrate that expectation? Sure.
That's correct and the increase is really driven by the low gas prices in the summer producing that 98% capacity factor on our natural gas plants that I commented earlier on the intermediate unit.
Paul do you want to add any more color to that?  In '15 Greg the built just went through '14 and '15 it's really all looking at the improved spark spread that we’re seeing in the market.
So we've seen as you can look at the market pricing that we gave you in Q2 versus Q3 natural gas prices are off but spark spread grew pretty dramatically.
So that level of output will basically put us on par to achieve something pretty comparable to the gas performance in calendar 2014.
Final question in Kentucky have you actually filed the case and if not when do you plan on formally filing and when we will get a final decision? We have given them notice and we’re about to put the publication into the press.
We won't file a case until the very end of November.
It generally takes about seven months in a case like this so we would expect new rates to go in July 1 2015 [ph].
Can you talk a little more about where you're finding your bolt-on energies on Talen and avoiding the dissynergies at the residual PPO kind of as you've gotten into it where those bucketing dollars have come from and where you think you’re on the continuum of doing better or worse from those numbers? Sure.
Maybe I'll ask Vince to comment on the PPL Corp side and then Paul can comment on the Talen Energy side.
Go ahead Vince.
Sure.
So first of all I will say that we're well within the target of the $75 million that we’re going after at Corp.
I would say we are right around that plus or minus a couple million dollars.
So I would say we’re pretty much honing in right on that on that $75 million Dan.
And it's really coming from restructuring the corporate support services organizations I call it condense and consolidate.
So we're reducing layers of management and condensing more functions under fewer Presidents and higher level organizations.
So there's a pretty significant reorganization going on.
We've also looked at noncritical third-party services and other things like that.
So it's really just taken a deep dive into the corporate center.
On the Talen Energy side we really split that.
If you think back to the June 10th presentation $85 million in headquarters and services costs $60 million in operations think about as a plan for $10 million for margin in the HQ and services.
So even though we haven't been able to work extremely closely with the Riverstone folks because of anti-trust reasons as we go through the approval processes that are well underway.
From the diligence that we did the yearly dialogue that we did we have a very good idea in terms of the plans where we can get the 60 that will well underway into achieving -- the headquarters and services it's really just looking at setting up from a bottoms up perspective.
The HQ for Talen Energy relative to the level of costs that PPL charges the supply business today again I feel really good about the capability to achieve that $85 million and another $10 million in marketing with the way that Riverstone hedges their plans versus the more dynamic way that we manage our portfolio we feel good about that as well.
I would hope there would be additional opportunities as we're able to get into supply chain IT some other activities when we're able to be more involved with that fleet.
But today we're doing it based upon the best information that we've got but we do feel good about where we're.
Okay.
And I guess Paul just on the Susquehanna blade issues.
How the long do you think it's going to take to get the shorter blades put in all the turbines and then what is the maintenance profile over the next year or two how long it takes to get that done as far as the frequency of extended or more frequent outages? As Bill indicated in the prepared remarks upto three low pressure turbines that are on each of the units.
In the unit one outage this past spring we replaced one of the three that would be the one that had the most issues since we've been discovering the issue that we've got with the blades.
On unit two we replaced that one as well as another so we'll replace two of the three LP turbine with the lower blades next spring on unit two.
The third turbine on each of the units we haven't seen any major issues with.
So in our business plan for next year we have got the plant refueling outage and blade modification outage for unit two.
We do not have an incremental outage factored in for unit one because we think based upon the data we're seeing on those turbines that we will be able to make it through two the refueling outage in spring of 2016 where we'd replace the other two turbines with a lower blades and that will pretty much take care.
We have one unit left in spring of '17 but we don't think we are going to need to have interim outages on the units following the spring -- for spring refill next year.
And they can be accomplished -- those retrofits if you will within our normal refueling outage timeframe.
So it's not going to increase the outage the normal outage scheduled.
We can fit it with insight that window.
Okay.
And Bill guess one another question with the drop in gas prices and prospectively higher capacity prices can you talk about what interests you might be seeing on generators looking for interconnection to the system for new builds capacity and how you queue that in in more timely fashion and the Compass Project which is pretty long dated? That’s really run through the PJM planning process and obviously PPL on our transmission side we’re part of that process but I think there is ongoing interest in building new natural gas plants but I wouldn't say that current capacity potential upside or lower gas prices are driving it much more significant than we had saw in the past.
I think a number of the developers that started these projects anticipated improving fundamentals and we’re already preparing for a lot of this not necessarily the PJM capacity price construct change but time I guess will tell through the PJM process as to how much incremental interest we see.
Yes I would say Dan that a lot of those projects that are being built are not projects that would qualify for the CP product so we typically stick with single few no storage capability no gas transmission so there will be a limited impact in terms of the CP outcome.
I just wanted to jump on Dan's question I guess for a clarification with the capacity performance product.
I mean your I guess non-solid fuel plants you know oil and gas that are in supply.
I mean do you think they can achieve the -- if they have dual fuel switching capability could they achieve that forced outage rate that PJM is looking for? I think you might have asked two questions there.
So on our dual fuel oil and gas unit any of your units can (indiscernible) it would qualify.
For example our Martins Creek facility would qualify where Ironwood and Lower Mount Bethel would not except for the extent that we can locate storage and get firm gas transition if we can for either all or partial of those facilities those may qualify.
But we do expect there's going to be limited capability in the market to be able to deliver much product along those lines.
When we think about the level of CapEx spend that we've driven out of the coal plants there may be some modest increments to deal with the penalty exposure depending upon how that gets quantified but I wouldn't look from the PPL plan perspective at Montour (indiscernible) but those will be material cost increases.
Sorry if I missed it but with the shorter turbines at the Susquehanna is there a D Rate [ph] associated with that? There would be a very limited D Rate only during certain periods of the year so not really material in the long run.
So yes there would be a small D Rate with the shorter blades.
That would be summer I assume? Yes in the summer.
If we replace two of the three were actually flat.
If you replace one and there's actually a minor uplift because we get more output in the summer we're generator [ph] limited in the winter.
Replacing the second one puts us back to flat and then the third one would be it's less than 10 MW per unit that would be impacted if all three are ultimately changed out.
When you announced Talen you kind of gave a forward-looking EBITDA of 627.
Where does that given the uplift you see? When you think about the numbers that we have provided on the supply side for PPL I think you can get a reasonable calculation of the uplift.
We have not been getting details up pace in terms of hedging modeling parameters from the Riverstone folks.
Again we’re competitive with them until we get through the anti-trust regulatory approval process with DOJ so we can to certain regulations but we’re not prepared to provide an update to EBITDA today.
Can you give an update on the PPL side? Perhaps on Riverstone? Yes until we provide our earnings update at the end of the year in January I'll refrain from that.
We’re still going through our normal business planning process and looking at O&amp;M and CapEx and fuel and the hedges.
We're as prices have improved here recently including very recently with the uplifts in '15 we've and even '16 we've been hedging more.
So I would be giving you information that would be outside of the 930 numbers that are in the market prices and hegding data that we provided in the deck So I think we will refrain today.
Just the following on the situation with the merger and what have you.
The independent market monitor as you know has been filing recommendations I know they are just recommendations but it's hard for me to quantify what the impact of sort of cost that are -- mitigation might mean for some of the proposals he has with respect to getting restraints or divesture limitations.
I was wondering do you guys have any sense or any quantification if in fact any of those were adopted what the impact could be? We don't have any quantification of that.
And as you kind of mentioned it is really hard to calculate something like that given the complex nature of his comments and the way some of those kind of work when you say together but some work in one direction and some go the other way.
So it's kind of hard to assess that type of thought process they are.
So we have not quantified it what it might mean.
I don't think it changes our view of (indiscernible) assessment of market power and how they're going to test us in any meaningful way.
So we feel as comfortable as we did before he has made comments similar to this the outer units some of them are a bit more mitigated in nature.
But these same assets tend to have approved for their transaction processes.
So we’re -- again nothing surprising by way of what he said for the analysis behind it it's hard to perfectly predict that we very currently think that we fully meet FERCs requirement with either of the two packages that we proposed.
And in terms of the process it looks like we’re kind of finished with the process at least in terms of the back-and-forth between you guys and the IMM.
When do we expect could you give me -- went do you FERC will act on this? I think FERC should act by year end hopefully by mid-December type timeframe as are just reading the tea leaves now and then the DOJ would be sometime in mid-January to mid-February given the process.
And then on Act 128 Phase III how do you guys see that -- I know they are beginning the process and what have you but do you think that might impact the sales growth maybe -- do you think maybe the growing fruit [ph] with such efficiency and stuff has sort of gone away perhaps and perhaps we might see better sales growth given what's happened with Act I29 or just any flavor you can give us in terms of what you see might be happening there? Yes we're just starting to work on taking a look at Phase III you raised a good question about what the future opportunities are and from Phase II we're still seeing some economically justified opportunities for savings for energy efficiency.
And I think from a long-term perspective we are basically looking at flat sales growth.
Our five-year look is about a 0.5%.
So that's basically what we're looking at.
So we’re not looking at significant increases in our load that’s basically flat.
And then Reggie there's some obviously due to the elections today but if the democrat were to win and (indiscernible) has the polls it seems to sort of for joining Reggie.
Do you see that potentially impacting you guys at all? Well I guess it remains to be seen but we haven't gotten the full details from the prospective Governor on his energy plan totally.
I think there has been some comments made about taxes on shale gas but as it relates to Reggie kind of remains to be seen.
I think the other question is whether it would require legislation to make it happen or not and if so and that might be a tough thing to gets.
Okay.
And then just finally on the currency hedge position could you give a refresher on how much you've hedged? And at what price for the (indiscernible)? Sure Paul for 2015 we're at 98% hedged at a 163 rate and so that was included in our guidance for 2015 and then for 2016 which we've given you guidance on as well we're 55% hedged at a $1.64 per pound rates.
So kind of a higher level question here to start off I'm curious can you clarify or at least give us a little bit of a timeline in thinking about getting better than a 4% EPS growth rate perhaps some comments previously around 4 to 6.
How do you think about getting there? Where do you see yourself today particularly in the context of better synergy realization? Sure.
We’re in the midst of our financial planning process right now and we're going to be looking to optimize the current plant that we’ve by year-end and so far we don't see anything at the moment that would suggest we can't grow earnings by at least the 4% annually that we've communicated previously.
Of course we hope to improve upon that and we will be providing an update on earnings growth projections on the year-end earnings call.
So expect on the next call that we will give you some additional flavor on that.
And then little bit of a detail over on the supply side.
Montana you have a single asset left really.
What's the thought process there as you look towards realizing this Talen deal? The thought process there is one for hydro the next few weeks we move forward to the North Western [ph].
We will be optimizing our cost to cost structure to deal with the smaller asset mix.
We would plan on continuing to run the four units at that Colstrip.
We had previously communicated the plant to shut down come spring which is still the plan.
So we will continue to run the assets there the positive cash flow units to the extent that another party has a view to create a capability for us to exit at the value that represents our fundamental reevaluations that’s something that we can entertain not unlike that we did with hydros.
And then perhaps this is going a bridge too far but what do you think in terms of CP in PJM in terms of aggregate revenue upside or impact to the market ultimately for your portfolio given your comments and responses to prior questions? You started off right in terms of your bridge too far.
I will be down there today with one of the coalitions in front of the Board making our very strong points that when you look at the fact that roughly more than half of the coal-fired generation in PJM earns no economic return and it's flat to negative cash flow that they completely unsustainable situation.
If we just look at what at our units (indiscernible) while they are positive cash flow from the '09 - '10 period we went from just under $200 a megawatt a day to a little under a $120 a megawatt a day in the 17-18 [ph] auction.
We've gone from 80% plus capacity factors over that time frame to less than 50 and the amount that we're earning for every megawatt hour that we produce is getting closer to being the variable cost of production.
So it's a very challenging situation for the coal plant.
On the Talen side we're not going to live with scenarios where any one of the plant subsidizes other facilities.
And I think other companies are resolutely in the same spot.
So we find as a system to provide the right levels of revenue to ensure that these assets remained in the marketplace and are reliable or we’re going to see an accelerated -- even for units that are in place significant legacy investments and complying with care and with max [ph].
You’re going to see more of those facilities shut down and have the system become more volatile.
So because only when more gas is going to get built as Bill indicated in earlier remarks and Vince did in Q3 we had less than 30% capacity factors on our coal units.
It worked out fine because we can buy product back from the market and satisfy hedges at net prices losing money at peak but gaining in off-peak less than we can produce it for but over the long term that’s unsustainable and our gas plants are running at base loads.
So that's why obviously you're seeing D Rate [ph] expansion that you're seeing in '15 in '16 it's starting with less liquidity there but some of the market value the units.
And if the answer is yes then we need a durable sustainable revenue stream to these plants because this is new capital going in.
This isn't O&amp;M that they are asking for in terms of reliability and people have been really cutting back capital in the facilities and it's very difficult to actually today to predict reliability.
So that risk reward as well on the penalty side has to be balanced as several companies are going to need to play some relatively material investments in the plan to get them to the level that avoids penalty structures.
I would just add that as proposed the capacity construct would be a net positive a significant positive to the overall Talen Energy fleets given a significant levels of base load that we have with firm fuel.
So it obviously includes nuclear and the coal assets as well as any dual fuel.
So given the characteristics of our portfolio this would be a significant potential upside to the Talen Energy fleet.
I had a question on domestic utilities and the 4% growth rate going forward.
What are you potentially looking at in Pennsylvania and Kentucky after the ECR spending and what are some of the rate growth based projects that maybe aren't in the plan right now that you are contemplating? Well we provided CapEx plans for five years so I think you can -- and rate based growth.
So I think at least that far out you can see pretty clearly where that growth is going to come from.
The transmission and distribution systems are aging.
We're replacing a lot of that aging equipment with newer technology so I think much of that is going to continue on even beyond the five-year program and plan.
And we're going to be providing 2019 numbers on the yearend earnings call.
So you get at least another additional year at that point.
I'll ask Rick and Greg to comment for both Kentucky and Pennsylvania to maybe supplement anything there.
We're in the process of putting together our plans for the next couple of years and I would expect that will continue to feel the environmental pressures particularly in the landfill slide so I would anticipate to the additional expenditures on the environmental side.
And in addition while we did postpone the Green River facility from 2018 we probably will have to bring that back in some time 2021.
So we would look at additional expense in the latter part of the period as well.
And frankly just given the state of play I'm confident the environmental requirements are going to go up.
As far as Pennsylvania again we're in the middle of a planning process and just as Bill said we'd see continued needs of both on the distribution and transmission but expect additional expenditures in both places.
And I think our largest growth opportunity in Pennsylvania is the Compass Program that 725 mile transmission lines so to the extent that is ultimately approved that would be I think a very large and meaningful project for Pennsylvania and for Greg's business.
And Paul you kind of mentioned that your combined cycle plants are running really low while be base load plants are disadvantaged with dark spreads.
Are there any Brownfield opportunities given the fact that you're right on top of the Marcellus with a lot of your base load and intermediate plants to expand capacity there? Or would it run into some market monitor issues? No there wouldn't -- to the extent we decides to build something while we’ve to go through our normal triennial process to ensure we don't have market power for that purpose from a market monitor perspective if we build that's different than buying which creates kind of an immediate tests.
So we will be okay on the build side I believe in this area.
We have an existing site at Martin's Creek that's buildable and dual fuel.
We're still looking at very seriously the ability to gasify Brunner Island to the extent that we did that beside that pipe could also handle CCBT [ph] at that site we’re very close by.
So we've got a couple of sites ready to go in PJM as well as two of the three sites in Texas are expandable as well if we see the right price signals and the right fundamental there.
Just on the updated guidance for '14 and locations for '15.
So any of the -- you mentioned the UK incentive revenues and the structural change were already in the guidance when given when the Talen deal was announced? Is that correct? That's correct Steve.
Okay but is there any other benefit of the '14 improvement that would flow through to '15? Not really Steve most of the benefits of 2014 are coming from the supply segment as we talked about a little bit improvement on the WPD side in the UK.
But the bulk of the outperformance in 2014 has been on the competitive gen side.
Okay and then you're expecting improvement in Kentucky in '15 and anticipated this rate filing? Yes.
That's correct.
Okay.
And then maybe could you give us a little more sense on the new structure for the UK businesses and the ability to how flexible are you to take basically cash out every year? As Vince mentioned in his remarks we've done a restructuring reorganization of our -- primarily our UK holding company organization.
And as you know we operate the WPD business as one business all for distribution network operating companies.
But in the past we have had two legal entity structures; the legacy the Southwest and the South Wales business came up through one legal entity structure and the new Midlands businesses came up through a parallel but a separate legal entity structure.
And so what we've been able to accomplish here at the end of October is to bring that within a single UK holding company structure.
And so that actually provides for a financially stronger holding company that should be better positioned for future debt issuances and re-financings that we now need to do out of the holding company.
It also sort of simplifies the group structure for other third parties the credit rating agencies the banks and other entities as well.
We do see some benefits internally it helps us with cash management regulatory reporting and some administrative elements and so we’re quite pleased with the reorganization that we just accomplished for this stage.
As we look to future cash repatriation there was a side benefit in that we did within the planning of this combination significant looks at and reviews of our cash repatriation needs for the future and how we can bring them back in a tax efficient manner.
And not have higher incremental U.S.
taxes under the new structure and we were successful in being able to lower our effective tax rates out into the future as compared to this year and even the average that we have had for the last few years.
So we were not only from a business standpoint improving the structure but we were also able to bring back the levels of cash that we've forecasted in the past and that we have commented on and provided you the numbers in the past.
We'll be able to do that more tax efficiently than we had expected as well.
Just a couple of easy questions here first of all in the UK can you just quantify for us what the revenue roll off in 2015 is related to implementation of REO in the spring and if I heard correctly the step up and bonus revenue is just 17 million but I didn't hear the first piece about the roll off.
As we look to fiscal year 2015 the revenues will be changing on April 1 of that year.
So it's not a full year effect.
But we're seeing about a $150 million in a revenue reduction that’s a $0.15 as our reduction for fiscal year '15.
I'm sorry Michael the second part of the question again? And so just partially offsetting that is the bonus revs the bonus revenues are only up about -- is that $17 million or is it more than that? Well is 17 million higher on a regulatory year basis and again that will start on April 1st as well so that $130 million will be coming in and starting within that period of time.
The fiscal year on fiscal year difference between 2014 and 2015 is not as great but it absolutely helps mitigate the revenue short fall or the revenue decline that we’re seeing in 2015.
What's also helping is I had mentioned earlier is that we're seeing lower taxes -- tax expense so that’s helpful.
We’re seeing a benefit from the currency hedging that we had put into place where we're 98% hedged at a $1.63 per pound rate so that’s how to mitigate the decline in revenue for next year.
And on PPL supply when I look at the 2016 data that's in the hedging supply two things.
One putting noticeable drop-offs in the volumes expected from the Eastern base load facility when you look at '15 versus '16 what's driving that? In '15 versus '16 we've got reversion and spark spreads we've got only a very small portion of the year that we've got the correct facility available.
So it's market drivers and not having correct available and the mix and any further step [ph] all the way from '14 to '15 to '16 you’ve got the 3 million -- 3.5 million megawatt hours of hydro also disappearing through that time period as well.
Yes I'm just thinking more on the PJM fleet.
The 43.1 down to 40.8 is that all spark spread driven or is it planned outage related as well? That's all base load so you'll see what's happening in the spark spread at the bottom the dark spread at the top.
And then the last thing on coal for the Montana fleet the 2016 data assumes a reasonable uptick in the coal pricing.
Just curious for the driver of that given how weak PRB prices have been recently.
Yes so being eliminated from there is coal from the correct facility.
So it's Colstrip only and it's looking at the cost plus contract at the mine relative to the volumes and spreading those overheads and so that's -- it's again it's a decently sized range given that in '16 it's all coal stratified.
But that mine outside -- that mine production I think you’ve to look at it a little differently that broad based PRB.
Not putting on the same economics as procuring from the market because we’re sole sourced from one provider from conveyor belt removal [ph]? And can you remind why the removal of Corette? Yes so Corette won't be able to meet and MATS [ph] come spring at last year on any type of economic basis that we see today.
So we just simply can't meet the SO2 mercury requirements for that facility in an economic fashion so it's going to be shut.
So it leads to lower O&amp;M at supply a little bit in '16 over '15 as you’ve fewer megawatts but also obviously the loss margin.
That’s correct.
I would just like to follow-up on the question on the UK reorganization and in terms of the making an impact on a going forward tax burden that you referenced.
Can you maybe quantify that and then explain to what extent and how it flows through into the earnings reported in the U.S.
just to help us think that through? And I want to confirm it feels like that something you didn't include in your guidance whereas some of the other elements were in the guidance.
So I want to make sure I'm right about that.
With regards to some of the specifics around the tax efficiency that we're seeing I'll give you some numbers and we think about in an effective tax rate areas.
In the past couple of years 2013 our effective tax rate was about 20%.
This year as Vince had mentioned we’re seeing some higher tax on our cash repatriation and this restructuring we’re going to be slightly over 23% this year on the effective tax rate As we go out into future we're going to see an effective tax rate that averages slightly less than 18%.
So we're seeing some benefits out into the future those benefits were included in the '15 and '16 guidance because we had already had plans in place for how to mitigate the REO and the revenue changes that were coming along and this will help us is further out past that period of time when we can average a lower effective tax rate than what we were expecting out in that period.
So is 19% a good number to use right through the 7-year review? Probably not through the entire 7-year view review but at least through the next five years 8-year review I should say.
But at least through the next five years that we've gone out in our calculations and our plans.
So the 18% is the right number but it was already in the guidance -- For 2015 and 2016 that is correct.
And the second part of your question deal with how does it flow-through earnings from a UK regulated segment we not only report the earnings that we translate and received from WPD from the UK but then we also incorporated and include the domestic effects which include some overhead costs here at PPL but also include the U.S.
tax expense on class repatriation.
And so the UK regulated segment just in its normal reporting process will incorporate whatever costs there are or whatever benefits there are within our earnings.
And are those numbers that you just gave the 20% 23% and 18% they include both of those tax items is that correct? They include both the UK and the U.S.
tax effects that is correct.
That’s a combined effective tax rate.
Thank you Jonathan and thanks to everyone for joining the call and look forward to your questions and comments on our year-end call.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and welcome to the PPL Corporation Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Joe Bergstein Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Emily.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the PPL conference call on fourth quarter results and our general business outlook.
We are providing slides of this presentation on our website at www.pplweb.com.
Any statements made in this presentation about future operating results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
A discussion of factors that could cause actual results or events to differ is contained in the appendix to this presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
We will refer to ongoing earnings a non-GAAP measure on this call.
For a reconciliation to the GAAP measure you should refer to the press release which has been posted on our website and has been filed with the SEC.
And as a reminder Talen Energy has filed its Form S1 registration statement with the SEC and as such we are in a quiet period with respect to future prospects of PPL Energy Supply and Talen.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Spence PPL Chairman President and CEO.
Thank you Joe.
Good morning everyone.
We're pleased that you're joining us this morning.
With me on the call today are Vince Sorgi PPL's Chief Financial Officer and the presidents of our 4 business segments.
Moving to Slide 3.
Our agenda this morning starts with an overview of our 2014 earnings results an operational overview and a discussion of our 2015 earnings forecast.
After my remarks Vince will review our segment financials and we'll talk about the recent movement of the pound sterling and then we're going to take your questions.
On a number of fronts 2014 was another very successful year for PPL.
We achieved strong earnings results in our regulated utility segments and a competitive Supply segment also turned in a solid performance despite the continued challenging market conditions.
And we made significant progress towards the spinoff of our supply business which is designed to unlock significant value for our shareowners.
The continued excellent performance of our utility operations and our ongoing infrastructure investments in those companies together with the successful restructuring of our corporate support functions give us confidence in PPL's ability to achieve compound growth in earnings of 4% to 6% through at least 2017 following the spinoff of the supply business.
Turning to Slide 4.
Today we announced 2014 reported earnings of $2.61 per share an increase of $0.85 from our 2013 results.
Adjusting for special items our 2014 earnings from ongoing operations were $2.45 per share matching the level that we achieved in 2013 despite significantly lower hedged power prices in our supply business.
I'm very pleased we're able to match our 2013 ongoing earnings per share this year with a solid financial performance of our regulated utilities primarily in Pennsylvania and the U.K.
offsetting the $0.10 decline we saw in supply.
For the fourth quarter reported earnings were $1.04 per share compared with a loss of $0.16 per share a year ago.
Earnings per share from ongoing operations were $0.58 in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared with $0.60 in 2013.
For the year our utility operations in United States and the United Kingdom improved earnings from ongoing operations by combined $116 million or 8.5%.
The primary drivers for this impressive performance are returns on additional transmission investments in Pennsylvania higher returns as a result of power plant environmental projects in Kentucky and higher utility revenues resulting from U.K.
price increases.
Vince will provide more details on segment results during his remarks.
Let's move to Slide 4 -- 5 rather for a discussion of our 2015 earnings forecast.
As we said in our news release this morning going forward we're excluding from our forecast any earnings from our supply business and the net cost associated with the supply spinoff.
We believe this approach provides our investors with a clearer picture of the financial performance of the ongoing portfolio of PPL.
As we previously communicated we're restricted in providing supply or Talen forecast while in registration with the SEC.
We appreciate everyone's patience during this process I know that Paul and his team are very excited to communicate the full Talen story which will occur as soon as possible following the spin.
We provided an update to PPL Energy Supply's hedge profile in the appendix of today's presentation material consistent with our prior practice.
Our 2015 forecast range for earnings from our regulated utility operations is $2.05 to $2.25 per share unchanged from what we provided with our June announcement of the Talen transaction.
The midpoint of this range is $2.15 which is 5.9% higher than the adjusted ongoing earnings from our utility operations in 2014.
Our 2014 adjusted regulated utility earnings from ongoing operations removed supply earnings and includes the full impact of dissynergies related to the spinoff of supply including indirect O&amp;M interest and depreciation.
Vince will cover this in more detail during his remarks.
As I mentioned earlier the excellent performance of our utility operations and the organic growth from planned and approved infrastructure investments gives us great confidence in our ability to achieve compound growth in earnings of 4% to 6% through at least 2017 following the supply spinoff.
The slide shows that we're anticipating slight increases in earnings in our U.K.
and Kentucky utilities and slightly lower earnings in our Pennsylvania utility.
This slide also shows a significant improvement in the corporate and other category that we expect to realize as the result of our ongoing corporate support cost reductions including the $75 million of dissynergies we discussed at the time of the announcement.
In addition to the Talen spinoff 2015 is a transitional year for PPL in many other ways.
In the U.K.
we're moving to the RIIO regulatory construct and we are in rate cases in Kentucky and expect to file a rate case during the year in Pennsylvania as well.
Growth in earnings in 2015 comes largely from the corporate restructuring efforts but growth beyond 2015 will be driven by our utility companies.
Now let's turn to Slide 6 for an update on our Regulated operations.
We're very pleased to note that WPD was recently named Utility of the Year by the international edition of Utility Week.
This marks back-to-back years that PPL companies were named Utility of the Year.
In judging WPD as the winner a panel of industry experts scrutinized the business performance in terms of customer satisfaction stakeholder return sustainability and corporate social responsibility staff development and stakeholder relationship.
We congratulate the employees of WPD for this impressive achievement and this recognition underscores the value we see in our U.K.
business as a key component of the portfolio going forward.
Back in the U.S.
progress is continuing on our rate cases in Kentucky.
As we told you in November we've requested increases in annual base electric rates of $30 million and $150 million at LG&amp;E and KU respectively and an increase in annual base gas rates of $14 million at LG&amp;E.
The increases are principally driven by investments in generation supply and other infrastructure investments needed to maintain and enhance the safe and reliable delivery of electricity and natural gas to our customers and to meet federal environmental regulations.
We anticipate that the new rates will go into effect on July 1st of this year.
A timeline for the rate case consideration is included in today's appendix.
In 2014 we also continued to focus on major capital projects in Pennsylvania and Kentucky with capital spending for the domestic utilities of approximately $2.3 billion during the year.
In Pennsylvania nearly $350 million was spent on our 2 largest transmission projects Susquehanna-Roseland and the Northeast/Pocono projects which are now 95% and 60% complete respectively.
$140 million was spent on disk projects improving the reliability of our distribution system while earning a near real time return.
In Kentucky some key construction achievements were reached as new environmental systems were completed in 2014 for 2 of the units at our KU gen station and for 1 of the units at our LG&amp;E Mill Creek station.
The gen landfill and ash transport system also became operational during the year.
Construction of our new Kentucky combined cycle gas unit Cane Run 7 is on schedule with commercial operation in the unit estimated to begin by the end of May this year.
Turning to Slide 7.
Let's briefly discuss domestic weather-normalized sales for the year and the quarter.
In Kentucky weather-normalized sales for the year were essentially flat with lower residential and commercial sales being offset by continued strong industrial sector growth.
Industrial sector growth is driven by solid production levels being maintained by several of our large manufacturing customers amid improving economic conditions.
Fourth quarter sales in Kentucky were lower because of the decline in residential and commercial sales that was somewhat offset by industrial growth.
The residential and commercial downturn is attributable to the continued slow growth or decline in several rural parts of Kentucky and Virginia.
As you can see sales increased slightly in Pennsylvania in 2014 with the industrial category showing the strongest growth.
The industrial sales growth is occurring primarily in the cement metal and steel sectors.
Pennsylvania weather-normalized sales in the fourth quarter showed slightly higher commercial sector use than was the case last year.
That increase resulted from a higher customer count this year as a result of improving economic conditions.
Moving to Slide 8.
Looking back on 2014 I'd like to highlight a few key accomplishments at the Supply segment.
In November we completed the sale of the Montana Hydro electro facilities to NorthWestern Energy for about $900 million.
As a reminder these cash proceeds remain with PPL following the spin and we expect to use them to fund utility infrastructure investments and pay down holding company debt in Kentucky this year.
Looking into overall portfolio performance we executed very well in 2014 outperforming our initial margin projections due to expanded spark spreads fleet optimization and availability during peak load periods and our strategic hedging program that captured incremental value even when our units were uneconomic to dispatch.
You can see from the chart in the appendix on Slide 28 that we experienced some coal-to-gas switching this year as low gas prices enabled our combined cycle gas units to continue to run like baseload units.
Further we see market reforms such as PGM's proposed capacity performance product the shift in the variable resource requirement curve and a recent increase in the offer cap as constructive signals supporting the competitive power business in PGM for the future.
Next I'd like to talk about our significant progress related to the spinoff of our competitive generation business which will be combined with Riverstone's competitive generation business to form Talen Energy.
Last week we submitted a response to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission accepting their proposed mitigation plan to address potential market power issues in the mid-Atlantic region.
The approval process is moving ahead as expected with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission and we continue to anticipate approvals within our original projected timelines.
The Talen Energy transition team headed by Paul Farr President of PPL Energy Supply has completed its staffing plan and continues to work towards their targeted synergies.
We expect to close the Talen transaction in the second quarter of 2015.
Before we move on to Vince I'll briefly provide you with an overview of our key objectives for 2015 which you'll see on Slide 9.
Our primary objective obviously for this year is the completion of the energy supply spinoff.
In the U.K.
our folks are focused on executing the new business plan that was accepted as part of the RIIO-ED1 process which begins April 1st of this year.
In Kentucky as mentioned earlier we're moving forward with the efforts on our rate cases and in Pennsylvania while we don't yet have details on our filing we do expect to file a distribution base case during the year.
In Kentucky the major focus continues to be the execution of our generation and environmental construction projects which are on schedule and on budget.
In Pennsylvania we're also focused on executing the large capital expenditure plan to continue to strengthen both our transmission and distribution systems.
And finally we're very focused on implementing the corporate restructuring currently underway.
We're confident that 2015 will be another solid year for PPL as our employees implement our business plans to provide excellent service to customers and to continue to invest in infrastructure improvements.
I'd like to take this opportunity to say that PPL employees have done an excellent job in designing and implementing a transition process that will launch a strong and streamlined corporate structure for the new PPL as well as set Talen Energy on course to operate safely and efficiently on Day 1.
2014 was obviously an eventful year for PPL one in which we began to blaze new paths in growing value for our shareowners even while we continue to provide the highest quality of service to our customers.
Our high-level performance during this challenging year further strengthens my confidence that both PPL and Talen Energy will be very successful companies for years to come.
PPL has a strong record of strategic and financial execution.
As we enter a new phase of our evolution we're confident that we will continue to provide shareowners with competitive returns and our customers with best-in-class reliability and service at reasonable cost.
As a pure play electric utility going forward we believe our 3 regulatory jurisdictions provide predictable earnings opportunities with timely recovery of investments.
Our Transmission business has grown rapidly and we continue to identify additional projects that will drive further growth in that part of the business.
We expect the Transmission business to be the fastest growing part of our business for the foreseeable future.
Finally despite the recent decline in the British pound we're confident in our ability to achieve an earnings growth rate of 4% to 6% given our current hedge levels and long track record of successful hedging programs that have helped drive our ability to meet or exceed earnings expectations.
I look forward to your questions after we hear some additional earnings details from Vince Sorgi.
Vince? Thank you Bill.
And good morning everyone.
Let's move to Slide 10.
Our fourth quarter earnings from ongoing operations decreased slightly over last year driven primarily by lower earnings at our competitive supply in Kentucky Regulated segment partially offset by higher earnings from the U.K.
and Pennsylvania Regulated segments.
Full year 2014 earnings from ongoing operations were the same as last year both at $2.45 per share.
Higher earnings in the U.K.
and Pennsylvania Regulated segments were offset by lower earnings from the Supply segment and Corporate and Other.
The $0.03 reduction in Corporate and Other is primarily driven by tax-related items and higher financing and other costs.
Let's move to a more detailed review of 2014 segment earnings drivers starting with the U.K.
results on Slide 11.
Our U.K.
Regulated segment earned a $1.37 per share in 2014 a $0.05 increase compared to 2013.
This increase was due to higher utility revenue due primarily to higher prices partially offset by lower volumes due to weather and lower O&amp;M due to lower pension expense.
These positive drivers were partially offset by higher U.S.
income taxes due to an increase in 2014 taxable dividends and from a 2013 positive adjustment related to an IRS ruling on our earnings to profits calculation.
We also had higher depreciation from assets placement service and other of $0.03 per share.
One other item of note for the U.K.
Regulated segment in an attempt to provide you with additional visibility and transparency into the U.K.
business we will provide you unaudited consolidated financial information for PPL Global LLC.
PPL Global is primarily the U.K.
Regulated segment exclusive of the after-tax effect of allocated interest from the debt issued at PPL cap funding for the Midlands acquisition.
We'll footnote those amounts so you can reconcile the PPL Global LLC results to the results of the U.K.
Regulated segment presented here today.
We hope you'll find this additional disclosure useful.
We're still assessing the format in which to provide this information which we expect to furnish separately in an 8-K to be filed at the time we file our 10-K.
Moving to Slide 12.
Our Kentucky Regulated segment earned $0.47 per share in 2014 a $0.01 decrease from 2013.
This decrease was due to higher O&amp;M driven predominantly by timing of generation maintenance outages storm-related expenses and higher uncollectible accounts.
Higher depreciation from assets placed in service higher financing costs from higher debt balances to fund CapEx and other of $0.03 per share.
This decrease in earnings was almost fully offset by higher gross margins from returns on environmental capital investment and higher sales volume due to favorable weather.
The other variances of negative $0.03 for both the Kentucky and U.K.
Regulated segments is related to the way we compute diluted earnings per share using the if-converted method of accounting for the debt component of the equity units.
Not to get too technical but the interest add back to net income in 2013 was higher than the add back in 2014.
And with no change in the number of shares outstanding this has the effect of reducing EPS this year compared to last year.
Turning to Slide 13.
Our Pennsylvania Regulated segment earned $0.40 per share in 2014 a $0.09 increase over 2013.
This increase was due to higher delivery margins in both transmission and distribution from higher returns on additional capital investments and lower O&amp;M.
These increases were partially offset by higher depreciation due to asset additions and higher financing costs from higher debt balances to fund CapEx.
Finishing our segment review with supply on Slide 14 this segment earned $0.29 per share in 2014 a year-over-year decrease of $0.10 per share.
This decrease was primarily due to lower energy margins driven by lower energy and capacity prices partially offset by favorable baseload asset performance gains on certain commodity positions and the net benefits of unusually cold weather in the first quarter of 2014.
Lower margins were partially offset by lower financing costs primarily due to the repayment of the lower Mount Bethel debt in December of 2013 when we exited a lease and acquired that plant and lower income taxes driven by truing up our state effective tax rate at year end 2014 and a valuation allowance adjustment recorded in 2013 related to deferred tax assets for state net operating losses.
Turning to Slide 15.
We have prepared a walk from our 2014 ongoing earnings of $2.45 to our 2014 adjusted utility earnings from ongoing operations of $2.03 which adjust for the Supply segment and are related to synergies from the spin as Bill described.
This adjusted 2014 earnings amount is the starting point from which we are basing our 4% to 6% compound annual growth rate.
Starting from $2.45 we removed the current year Supply earnings of $0.29.
We then adjusted for the $0.07 of O&amp;M dissynergies previously disclosed.
This is the $75 million of indirect corporate costs that were allocated to Supply but do not go with Supply as part of the spinoff.
As we've discussed corporate restructuring effort currently underway is intended to eliminate this dissynergy.
We also adjusted for the $0.05 of interest on the $880 million of debt at PPL cap funding that was previously allocated to Supply but will remain with PPL Corp.
This is a permanent dissynergy.
Finally we adjusted the depreciation dissynergy down from $0.03 previously disclosed to $0.01 since by the time we get to 2017 there is only $0.01 of depreciation dissynergy remaining as these assets are generally IT systems that have short useful lives and some of the assets become fully depreciated over this time period.
Turning to Slide 16.
We have prepared a walk from our 2014 adjusted regulated utility ongoing earnings of $2.03 to the $2.15 per share midpoint of our 2015 ongoing Regulated Utility forecast.
Corporate and Other is forecasted to contribute $0.11 to the improvement in the 2015 earnings.
As we implement the corporate restructuring we expect to reduce the O&amp;M dissynergies of $0.07.
And in 2014 we incurred about $0.02 of deferred tax asset adjustments that we do not expect to incur in 2015.
In the U.K.
as discussed previously utility revenues will decrease by about $0.14 primarily due to revenue profiling and a lower weighted average cost of capital partially offset by inflation and other items as we move into the RIIO-ED1 price control period beginning April 1 of this year.
Offsetting lower revenues our lower U.S.
income tax is as a result of the decrease in taxable dividends and a higher British pound exchange rate for 2015 as a result of our hedging program.
The hedged rate for 2015 is about $1.63 compared to a realized hedge rate of $1.60 in 2014.
In Kentucky we anticipate a slight increase in earnings with rate increases effective July 1.
Higher margins are expected to be partially offset by increases in O&amp;M due to higher pension and other labor related cost higher depreciation on the increase plan and [ph] service and higher interest expense to fund the capital growth in Kentucky.
In Pennsylvania we expect lower earnings in 2015 due primarily to higher O&amp;M higher depreciation and higher financing cost.
These negative drivers are expected to be partially offset by improved margins driven by increased transmission margins and returns on distribution improvement capital investments.
On Slide 17.
We provide updates on our free cash flow before dividends.
Actual 2014 free cash flow before dividends was in line with the projection we provided last February which if you recall included the proceeds from the sale of the Montana Hydro facilities.
Looking at 2015 we are projecting a decrease in our free cash flow primarily driven by the $900 million Montana Hydro sale proceeds that we received in 2014 and the free cash flows of energy supply that are included in 2014 of about $200 million.
2015 cash from operations and capital expenditures exclude the Supply segment except for $191 million of distributions to be received by court at the end of the first quarter with no additional distributions from supply thereafter.
Moving to Slide 18.
Our planned capital expenditures for 2015 through 2019 are detailed on this slide with Regulated Utility investment totaling almost $18 billion over that period.
This includes previously announced initiatives such as U.K.
spending for our accepted RIIO-ED1 business plan executing on our environmental compliance plans in Kentucky to meet EPA regulations as well as focusing on system reliability and generation capacity replacement with the retirement of some of our coal fleet in Kentucky updating and modernizing aging infrastructure in Pennsylvania including programs that identify areas to strategically improve system performance and reliability.
Our revised capital plan reflects incremental investment of approximately $900 million in Pennsylvania through 2018 including $500 million per transmission investments including line rebuilds new substations and substation security and $200 million for distribution improvements the smart meter replacement program and upgrades to our facilities.
Most of the increased distribution spend is recoverable through rate mechanisms including the disk and the smart meter rider.
The revised plan also includes an increase of over $270 million from 2015 to 2018 in Kentucky environmental spending due to increases in scope to meet effluent water guidelines and other projects related to coal combustion residuals including ash pond closures.
This increase partially offsets the net reduction of about $600 million of spend from 2015 to '18 from the deferral of the Green River 5 CCGT plan.
And finally our capital plan is based on identified projects across the portfolio and does not include unidentified growth projects.
Turning to Slide 19.
Our updated investment plan drives a CAGR of about 7% in our projected rate base to 2019 driving value for both our customers and our shareowners.
Turning to Slide 20.
As Bill mentioned earlier in the call we are targeting to achieve compound annual growth in earnings per share of 4% to 6% through at least 2017.
At this time I'll highlight certain key assumptions used for each segment that supports the 4% to 6% earnings CAGR.
For the Pennsylvania Regulated segment assumptions contributing to this growth include the successful -- excuse me execution of our capital plan for both transmission and distribution.
Earnings growth through 2017 is based on transmission CapEx spend of $2.1 billion and distribution CapEx spend of $1.2 billion with disk and smart meter CapEx contributing $530 million and $160 million respectively.
The successful distribution base rate case plan for 2015 with new rates effective in early 2016 and we are assuming minimal load growth over the period.
For the Kentucky Regulated segment key assumptions include the successful execution of our environmental CapEx program of $1.3 billion and the completion of the Cane Run combined cycle natural gas-fired plant.
Successful completion of the current base rate cases with new rates effective July 1 2015 and once again we are assuming minimal load growth over the period.
For the U.K.
Regulated segment of course executing on the Ofgem accepted RIIO-ED1 business plan has been built into the growth assumptions and provides 8 years of base revenue certainty continued opportunity to outperform targets and the ability to true up certain costs such as the annual change in the cost of debt and inflation as determined by the U.K.
RPI.
We have also assumed a budgeted currency rate of $1.60 per GBP.
And for RPI under the Ofgem methodology the forecasted inflation rate used for the '15 '16 regulatory year is 2.6% which will be trued up for the actual realized inflation in the '17-'18 regulatory year.
Our long range RPI assumption beyond '15-'16 is 3%.
Incentive revenues are soon to be slightly higher for the 2014-15 regulatory year compared to the $125 million we earned for the regulatory year ended in March 2014.
We assume incentive revenues decline from there given the type of performance targets under RIIO-ED1.
For Corporate and Other we have built into the growth rate achieving the full $75 million in corporate support cost savings.
At this point we fully expect to be able to achieve this level of savings.
We also assume equity issuances of $200 million annually which is an increase of $100 million per year from our prior disclosure.
This increase is to help fund the additional CapEx in the plan while maintaining our strong credit metrics.
Moving to Slide 21.
We know many of you have been focused on the recent movement in the British pound to U.S.
dollar exchange rate and would like to understand the effect it has on our earnings from WPD.
The next couple of slides present information on our hedge levels and provide details that help us set a budgeted rate of $1.60 per GBP.
On this slide we detail our hedging status for 2015 and 2016 including sensitivities for a $0.05 and $0.10 downward movement in the exchange rate compared to our budgeted rate of $1.60.
First we are nearly fully hedged at 97% for 2015 at an average rate of $1.63.
For 2016 we are 70% hedged at an average rate of $1.61.
Since our third quarter update we have layered on additional hedges for 2016 using collars to help protect against a further decline but preserve some upside should the GBP strengthen from its current position.
You can see from the sensitivity table that there is basically no exposure in 2015 given our 97% hedge level and minimal exposure in 2016 even if rates stay at their current levels.
Turning to Slide 22.
As I just indicated our business plan uses $1.60 as the budgeted rate for our open positions.
While this rate is higher than the current spot rate we believe it is indicative of a longer-term exchange rate based on historical data.
First the 5-year average GBP rate was a $1.59 and the 10 15 and 20-year averages were all above $1.65.
Over the last 3 years when the exchange rate dipped below at $1.50 it was short-lived as seen by the blue line.
In the last 20 years only 20 days went below $1.40.
And about 90% of the time the exchange rate was $1.50 or higher.
Similar to the commodity hedge program we use to hedge our supply business our foreign currency hedging program sets ranges as guidelines that provide flexibility to take advantage of periods of GBP strengthening as we did earlier in 2014 by increasing our hedge levels for 2015 and '16 and does not require us to fully hedge our exposure at lower levels.
As you are aware we have been very successful with this strategy on the commodity side of our business.
And as I detailed this strategy has positioned us well for 2015 and '16.
I know that was a lot but that concludes my prepared remarks.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bill for the question-and-answer period.
Bill? Thank you Vince.
And Operator we are ready to take questions please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Neel Mitra of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on basically around Slide 21.
Can you guys disclose the 2017 hedge levels for the currency? And basically are you using the $1.60 exchange rate for 2017 as well to kind of get to the 4% to 6% earnings growth? Yes thanks for the question Neel.
For 2017 we are not hedged at all at the moment.
And it is $1.60 in our forecast as I think Vince commented on one of the slides that is used for all the years in the business plan for open positions.
And of course 2017 is fully open.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And when you look at the $1.60 exchange rate and I guess where we're at right now with the forward curves around $1.50 or a little bit higher is the 4% to 6% growth kind of safe through 2017 under the current forward curves or is it more kind of on your point of view at the $1.60 level? Well certainly for 2015 and 2016 it would have minimal impact as shown on the Slide 21 here.
Vince do you want to comment on 2017? Sure yes.
So Neel we look at the forwards as well as historical data when we kind of look at our exchange rates and there is quite a variability as I'm sure you know right they range from around $1 -- out for '17 around $1.40 to all the way up to $1.75.
When you look forward clearly I think we think there'll be opportunity for GBP strengthening so that we could hedge at higher levels.
The sensitivity [ph] as we've discussed in the past for '17 for every $0.05 movement is about $0.04.
So we'll continue to execute our hedge strategy layering in hedges as we go through the next 18 months.
And with periods of spiking we'll hedge up higher like we did back in 2014.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then the additional $100 million in equity.
Can you explain what that's going to be used for and is that going to be issued through a DRIP program or how is that going to be rolled out? Yes Vince why don't you take that one? Sure Bill.
So the -- we discussed last time the $100 million would primarily be DRIP and management comp.
We'll likely be doing a [Audio gap] program in addition to the DRIP and management comp to get to the $200 million.
And that extra $100 million is really being used to fund the incremental CapEx that Vince talked about and a lot of that's transmission in Pennsylvania as well as some increased spending in the other utility businesses.
Our next question is from Dan Eggers of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess just the first question following up on Neel's question is just from a hedging perspective on FX.
Is it one of these things that you guys are going to kind of wait for a point of view to get something to a better exchange rate before you put something on in '17 given the time horizon before 2017 actually happens? Yes.
We obviously have quite a bit of time before we get to 2017 given our higher -- high hedge levels for '15 and '16.
So not unlike what we've done Dan in our commodity hedging programs we look at it as a fairly dynamic process.
We set targets.
In this case we've obviously set a target of $1.60.
Given the volatility we've seen in the past we think there will be points in time where we reach that and we can take advantage of that.
So that's kind of a marker that we have obviously as we get further into '15 and '16 we'll continue to assess our outlook for 2017.
But we've got plenty of time and we think we will have opportunity to hedge it in over that period of time.
Research Division</strong> Bill on the update to the rate base numbers as in Slide 19.
The Pennsylvania piece has grown quite a bit it's like 11% I think CAGR on rate base growth [indiscernible] uptake in the back end.
Can you just talk about maybe a little bit of what's gotten layered in from last quarter to this quarter in those expectations and what the visibility is on delivery on that CapEx? Sure.
I'll ask Greg Dudkin President of our Electric Utilities in Pennsylvania to take that question.
Thanks Bill.
So it's primarily transmission-related expense and -- or capital investment and when you take a look at transmission Vince mentioned it in his comments that we're looking to update our -- we have a lot of assets that are reaching the end of their useful life.
So circuit breakers transformers we even have some transmission lines were built in 1920.
So a lot of that planned investment is to upgrade those.
We're also investing a lot in improving the systems reliability through automation through wood pole replacements et cetera.
So it's primarily in the transmission end.
We're also doing some extra investment in the distribution space talked about the smart meter plan.
We're doing a lot of things smart grid related smart switches what we call tielines which basically ties circuits together which further enable smart grids.
So those are the principal components of the additional investment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So none of the count -- the prospective [ph] compass CapEx is included in those numbers? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last question on the U.K.
side there's been a lot of movement obviously on RPI.
But what's the sensitivity maybe do like a 1% move in RPI or something just so we can think about how to calibrate that back to your model? Well a major move that we would anticipate Dan is going to be in the pound sterling versus the RPI.
So we articulated what that movement is.
So clearly the RPI one would be less.
I'd say we probably don't want to get into trying to give sensitivities on every element that could move the revenue or the cost line but what I would say also is that we've got some index-linked bonds that are also going to be somewhat of an offset to a move down in the RPI.
So it's a little bit of a dynamic exercise to go through and figure out what might be moving the RPI and how much it could impact revenue.
So I'm not trying to necessarily dodge a question Dan but we're really focused on the major uncertainty in the U.K.
which is the GBP.
Our next question is from Julien Dumoulin-Smith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> So quick question here on the utility side first.
Bonus depreciation how much was that in terms of an impact here if you could quantify it? Vince? So Julien the impact of bonus is included in our earnings guidance for 2015 and is also included in our 4% to 6% growth target.
It wasn't that significant for either PA or Kentucky.
I would say maybe around $0.01 in each case.
So not -- nothing significant.
Research Division</strong> And then just cutting back to the actual capital expenditures themselves.
First am I hearing from you right in Kentucky that the coal ash rules and especially the effluent side seems to actually be adding some real dollars? And then secondly on the Pennsylvania side I heard you delineate some of the individual pieces but is compass included within the broader scheme over the longer term here? So starting with the last question.
First compass is not included and correct on the Kentucky side that the evolving environmental regulations are driving our need for additional investment in the Kentucky business.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then shifting to supply real quickly.
Your west numbers at least on the hedge number there for '17 came down pretty big of late.
What's going on if you can comment? I'll ask Paul Farr to take that question.
Yes.
Julien this is Paul.
On a wholesale power price basis prices in the near term have been hanging in the low 30s which is not completely logical kind of given where snowpack is.
So we've done basically a straight mark.
We've offset some of that with some retail hedges that were at prices much more beneficial than what the wholesale indicates but that's just running it on a straight mark.
So with prices in the low 30s and the open position that we got that drove that roughly $4 movement.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then lastly just a clarification on what Dan was asking about before.
Your RPI assumptions are they at market? And then I suppose separately just to be clear it's less than the unhedged 2017 impact right? Just to be clear it's not versus your kind of nearer term hedged FX right? That is correct.
Research Division</strong> And the RPI is at market there as far as you calculated? Yes we -- I provided the RPI assumptions in my remarks Julien.
It was 2.6% for '15-'16 and 3% thereafter.
RPI really doesn't have a major impact in '15-'16 in the guidance that we provided in the appendix for the U.K.
earnings.
Our next question is from Anthony Crowdell of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just to jump on Julien's question.
How much I guess is it a correct description "inflation revenues" did you guys receive in 2014 or you expect to receive in 2015? Well the 2015 would be the 2 point -- well because -- first off we should clarify that these are regulatory years that we typically deal in with RPI adjustments versus calendar year.
So they don't change as of the first of the year.
And I believe so for the last period which will end this March it's going to be the 2.6% number that Vince talked about.
And then we're assuming a 3% which we won't know if that's the correct RPI or not for the '15-'16 year.
Research Division</strong> What was the I guess -- was there an inflation rate percentage of the -- I guess the last published year which would be -- was it '14-'15? I'll ask Rick Klingensmith to answer that piece of the question.
Sure.
No.
For the '14-'15 regulatory year the inflation was fixed at about 2.5%.
And so we are realizing that in the current period and then as Bill and Vince have indicated the inflation has been set for the '15-'16 regulatory year at 2.6%.
And Ofgem has actually changed their methodology from the current regulatory period into the RIIO period where they will -- are using a forecast going forward in setting the tariffs that are reset on April 1st.
And that forecast is what's published by the HM Treasury in November prior to that April period.
And then as Vince indicated in his remarks there will be a true up after the '15-'16 period as to any under-recovery or over-recovery will get captured in the 2017-'18 regulatory year.
So for '14-'15 we're fixed at 2.5%; for '15-'16 we're fixed at 2.6% and our assumption going further out in time is 3%.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just lastly I guess more of a bigger picture question.
Some utilities have looked at maybe building out some gas infrastructure rate base where your subsidiaries are located Kentucky Pennsylvania.
It seems that maybe there's some investment opportunities there for you.
Is that something you guys have looked at and thought about? Are you thinking more from an M&amp;A perspective on the gas side? Research Division</strong> No.
More of like a rate base like either rate basing reserves like some southeastern utilities or building out on top of the shale play but not M&amp;A? Yes I don't think for us that's much of an opportunity given the transmission projects that we already have identified.
However what I would say is the compass project which is not included in our CapEx program would be a program or a project if you will that would take advantage of some of the opportunities in the Marcellus shale to basically instead of bringing the gas pipelines across we'd be bringing electric lines across to the potentially new power stations that could be built.
So that would be our opportunity if you will that's shale gas-related.
Our next question is from Greg Gordon of Evercore ISI.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions guys.
So not to beat a dead pound I mean a dead horse but on the pound -- that was a joke actually guys.
So if I look at 2016 your hedge is 70% at $1.61 and the pound is currently at $1.53.
So if the pound didn't move effectively you'd be at $1.58 $1.59 realized.
So the headwind into '17 over '16 if you realized $1.53 would be am I right $0.06 maybe $0.07 that you'd have to overcome if in fact the pound just stayed at this level for the next 3 years? Vince? Yes.
For which year Greg are you referring? Research Division</strong> '16 bridging to '17 given the guidance you gave on the -- what your exposure is to a $0.05 change in currency? Yes so we said $0.05 is about $0.04.
[indiscernible] Research Division</strong> Yes so it would be a little -- $0.04 plus half again.
So $0.06 or $0.07 right? Yes I think that's right.
That would be [indiscernible].
Yes.
Research Division</strong> So that would be the headwind you'd have to overcome great.
And then my second question goes to the earnings guidance.
You are saying 4% to 6% through at least '17 off the $2.03 of earnings? Yes.
Research Division</strong> But your guidance range for '15 is $2.05 to $2.25 right? Whereas 4% to 6% would be like $2.10 to $2.15.
Why is the guidance range so demonstrably wider than what you think your long-term earnings path is for '15? I would say it's just a transition year and knowing that we've got the spin and the timing of the spin and some of the dissynergies that Vince talked about that we're working to remove.
We want to make sure we get through that process but I think your point is a good one.
Going forward it's probably going to be a bit more predictable once we know kind of -- we get through that first full year if you will of the pure play electric and gas utility business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So -- and then would one of the other major sort of variables also be the outcome of the Kentucky case.
You've obviously got a placeholder in your guidance for what you think might happen but only a $0.01 of incremental earnings from what looks like a pretty substantial need in terms of the CapEx you've made.
That seems to be a fairly conservative placeholder or am I wrong that that's a key variable in the guidance? Well I think that is a key variable in the guidance for sure.
We've been reasonably successful in the past.
So we think we -- this is a very straightforward base rate case in our opinion but we are using a forward test year in the States.
So we'll see what the outcome is but I think we picked what we believe is a reasonable outcome for planning purposes.
Obviously I can't state what that is but -- so time will tell whether it's conservative or not I guess is the answer to your real question.
Yes Greg I would just add that I think the effect you're really seeing is at the midyear.
The rates don't go into effect until July 1.
So we're not getting the full year's revenue uptick from the rate case.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then should we be concerned at all about sales trends in Kentucky as it relates to your ability to continue to have what has been a constructive dialogue with the regulator.
I mean if your customer base is shrinking it's just a more a bigger and bigger burden on the existing customers? I'll ask Vic Staffieri to comment on Kentucky.
I think the notion that our energy requirements will be -- is fairly flat if you will less than 1% does create some pressures.
But I have to say that we're really encouraged by the industrial growth we're seeing.
We haven't seen a follow on yet in the commercial and residential sectors.
We're experiencing obviously some natural efficiencies but we're pretty bullish.
Actually the unemployment rate in Kentucky is probably at a low 5.1% hasn't been that low in many years.
So I think there's actually some optimism from us on the economy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One last question shifting to the U.K.
When we look at the new regulatory scheme the first year-over-year incentive -- potential to collect incentive revenues and the way the incentive revenues are calculated changes is it '16-'17 or '17-'18 I forget.
And then if you were to maximize the revenue the bonus revenues in that year as you have historically how significant of a potential overall decline in incentives would you see given that they're going to be -- they've tightened down those calculations under the new scheme? Sure.
Good question.
Let me ask Rick Klingensmith to comment.
Sure.
Greg the incentives as you just mentioned are going to be reset starting April 1 in our new RIIO construct.
The targets that we have are being reduced.
They're being reduced about 27% for customer interruptions and about 42% for customer minutes loss.
So as we go through the period starting April 1st and see our performance against those lower targets we do expect lower revenues to be received.
However those lower revenues will not be realized until the sort of the fiscal year 2017 time period when it's the '17-'18 regulatory period where incentive revenues will be captured at that point.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And that's -- so it's '17-'18 and all things being equal if you maxed out your incentives.
How much lower would they be than the '16-'17 year? We're not prepared at this point to kind of discuss the magnitude of the decline in revenues that might be possible as we're working to try to maximize everything we can under the new targets.
Our next question is from Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
Just a few quick ones and I apologize if you went over this.
The expected regulated ROE in Pennsylvania and Kentucky for 2015 what was that? We did not go over that.
So that's a new question.
Okay good.
Do you have a comment on that? 2015 we're assuming ROE somewhere below 9%.
For which jurisdictions? This is in Kentucky I'm sorry.
Okay.
And Pennsylvania? Pennsylvania from a GAAP perspective we're expecting to be a little bit over 9% in '15.
Okay.
And then sales growth you guys mentioned that the load growth over the long-term looks minimal.
I was just wondering if you could give a little bit more flavor as to what minimal means? Yes I would say it's 0.5% in each case.
Okay.
And then just finally the spinoff.
Any more clarity on a specific date or closer sort of range of dates now that we've gotten through so much? I'll ask Paul Farr to comment on that.
Yes Paul.
This is Paul.
Really nothing has changed from the standpoint of the initial indications that we gave.
We kind of early on said the NRC approval because of the process that we go through there and then the PaPUC again because it's process driven.
We actually did reach a settlement in December in Pennsylvania but just because of what the ALJ has to do and then the normal commission uptake cycle that kind of took us in both of those instances into kind of the into late March maybe early April timeframe nothing's changed from our standpoint there.
Our next question is from Paul Ridzon of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> You're forecasting a $0.10 loss at corporate for '15 but I'd imagine that's got a ramping effect of your initiatives.
What do you think the run rate will be by the end of the year? Go ahead Vince.
Yes it's around $0.10 $0.11.
On a run rate basis.
Research Division</strong> So it should be flat for the next few years at $0.10 loss? Yes I would say the next few years.
As we get further out and need to borrow up that cap [ph] funding to stabilize the cap structures of the utilities we'll start to see some interest expense creep in there.
But I think for the next couple of years $0.10 is probably a good proxy.
Research Division</strong> And on your earnings walk from '14 to '15 at U.K.
there was a $0.06 uptick from currency.
Could you explain what's driving that again? Yes that's just the $1.63 hedged rate versus the $1.60 realized rate for '14.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just the hedge okay.
And then lastly on the U.K.
I guess not lastly I have one more follow-up.
Just in '15 as far as the shape of the U.K.
earnings given the rate case timing I assume that first quarter should be up and then flattish throughout the rest of the year? Yes that's correct.
Research Division</strong> And then I know you don't have a geographic overlap on the shale but kind of what's your exposure to falling energy prices as far as suppliers or just suppliers to the shale I guess? It's pretty minimal.
There's really no impact in Kentucky and a very minimal impact in Pennsylvania.
Research Division</strong> Because you're so much further east than the shale? Correct.
Our next question is from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> If I go back in time to when you first entered the U.K.
market years ago 2000-ish 2001-ish timeframe.
One of the things that happened was you continued to show strength in being able to manage O&amp;M.
Just curious it's been 2 2.5 3 years since the last U.K.
acquisition.
Where do you -- what inning do you think you are in in terms of managing the cost structure since you've taken control.
I mean are we talking still early innings in terms of getting that done or are we talking 8th or 9th inning and what you're able to take out and save from a cost perspective you've already realized? Well I'll comment first Michael and then I'll turn it over to Rick.
But I think our U.K.
team was very aggressive from the very outset at looking for opportunities in this last regulatory period.
And as we described in previous calls in the first 6 months I think we took out a third of the cost and a third of the employee base to make it much more efficiencies -- efficient.
So I think we're probably in the latter innings if you want to use that analogy but that doesn't mean that there aren't still some opportunities for some hits here and there.
So with that kind of intro Rick you can go ahead and comment as well.
Yes.
Wow Michael thank you for the history and the recognition of what the team has been able to do in the U.K.
But Bill is right we were probably in the latter innings.
As we went into this RIIO process we provided a business plan that had our operating costs sort of the realization of all the efficiencies into that business plan and that's what we provided Ofgem for the next 8 years.
And that was actually a major factor in why we were fast-tracked and others were not was because of the cost efficiencies that we had already realized.
But what was also in the plan was another about 1% a year efficiency.
And so we are in the latter years but we have about that 1% ongoing in efficiency that we are looking to achieve out into the future.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
One other question this is maybe more strategic in nature.
You guys have never been bashful about transacting when -- or just doing something at the corporate level as a way to either reduce risk or highlight value you think is embedded within the company.
Post the spinoff of Talen a large portion more than 50% will come from the U.K.
and historically there've been very kind of decent differences in valuation methodologies investors have used for your non-U.S.
utilities versus U.S.
utilities.
At what point do you take a step back post-spin and say what are the range of options to help highlight the value of the U.K.
business to the broader investment community.
And how do you think about what those kind of options are if the market doesn't kind of give it what you think the appropriate value of that business is? Yes so I think the market will ultimately put an appropriate value on it as we exit the spin transaction if you will and have the opportunity to spend a lot more time just focusing on the core utility businesses including the U.K.
As Vince mentioned in his remarks we're providing some income statements for the U.K.
business unaudited to give more transparency.
And as we go forward we're also looking at other ways in which we can highlight to investors the real significant value that we believe exists in the U.K.
business.
And some of that value has obviously shown itself through our fast track that Rick just mentioned.
As well as the fact that we're into a -- entering into a full 8-year period upon which we have a great deal of certainty on the revenues and the cost side.
So we think it's a great business.
It fits well with our portfolio.
To the extent that we cannot overcome maybe questions or concerns that investors have we'd obviously as you point out want to try to engage in activities that would either highlight that value or reweight the portfolio.
But at this point I don't think there is a need or desire to do any of that.
And I would also mention that because our U.S.
businesses are growing much faster than the U.K.
business over time the weighting is going to come down for the U.K.
just through our organic growth in the U.S.
So I think over time we'll continue to highlight the value in the business and make sure it's appropriately valued and look at any opportunity we need to to make sure that shareowners get that value out of it.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And 1 last one.
And this one may be a Vince question.
Can you remind us what is your cash tax versus kind of statutory tax or GAAP tax rate going forward? Or more importantly do you expect to pay much if any in the way of significant cash taxes over the next few years? Sure.
So with bonus Michael we're -- I would say we're not a full taxpayer for the foreseeable future certainly through the planned period.
For 2015 we don't have a minimal tax burden.
I would say it's about $20 million.
And it's around $100 million for the next couple of years after that.
Research Division</strong> So meaning cash taxes will be a very small percent of total GAAP taxes? Yes.
It ends up I mean the way I kind of.
Yes I mean we have NOLs and credits that bring that down.
I kind of think of the amount of cash we're paying on our taxable income is about 25% as opposed to 35%.
Emily we're past our time limit here but we will go ahead and take one more question.
The last question comes from Brian Chin of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> As we get a couple of steps closer to the Talen spin being completed any marginal updated thoughts on dividend policy for the PPL parent utility? So we still do not have a formal dividend policy or dividend payout ratio that we're targeting Brian.
But as we've said post spin our intent is to continue to maintain the same level of dividend prior to the spin.
And we'll look at opportunities where appropriate to grow it if we can.
So that's kind of still the game plan going forward.
Okay.
Thanks everyone for joining us.
And have a good day.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the PPL Corporation First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Joe Bergstein.
Please go ahead..
Thank you Amy.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining the PPL conference call on first quarter results and our general business outlook.
We are providing slides of this presentation on our website at www.pplweb.com.
Any statements made in this presentation about future operating results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
A discussion of the factors that could cause actual results or events to differ is contained in the appendix to this presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
We will refer to earnings and ongoing operations or ongoing earnings a non-GAAP measure on this call.
For reconciliation to the GAAP measure you should refer to the press release which has been posted on our website and has been filed with the SEC.
As a reminder Talen Energy has filed its Form S-1 Registration Statement with the SEC.
And although the registration statement has been declared effective by the SEC we remain in a quiet period with respect to future prospects of PPL Energy Supply and Talen until the completion of the spin-off as previously announced on June 1.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Spence PPL Chairman President and CEO.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Joe.
Good morning everyone.
We're pleased that you've joined us today.
With me on the call are Vince Sorgi PPL's Chief Financial Officer; and the presidents of our four business segments.
Moving to slide three our agenda this morning starts with an overview of our 2015 first quarter earnings results an operational overview and a discussion of our 2015 earnings forecast.
After my remarks Vince will review our segment financials.
He'll also provide an update on our U.K.
operations including our improved currency hedge status a new look at our sensitivity changes in RPI or U.K.
inflation and our enhanced ability to repatriate cash.
Then we will take your questions.
The first quarter of 2015 marked a successful start to the year for PPL.
We achieved strong earnings results overall with solid performance across our regulated utility businesses.
The competitive Supply segment also turned in a solid performance despite ongoing challenging market conditions.
As I'll describe in more detail shortly we're on track to complete the spinoff of Supply on June 1.
Turning to slide four.
Today we announced first quarter 2015 reported earnings of $0.96 per share an increase of $0.47 from our first quarter 2014 results.
Adjusting for special items our regulated utility earnings from ongoing operations were $0.77 per share up 17% from first-quarter of 2014 adjusted regulated utility results.
If you recall from our 2014 year-end earnings call we discussed excluding the Supply segment earnings and net costs associated with the Supply spinoff from our ongoing earnings to provide results for our regulated utility operations.
This approach provides our investors with a clearer picture of the financial performance of the going forward part of our PPL portfolio.
Consistent with that approach we've adjusted the ongoing earnings on this slide to focus on our regulated utility operations.
With regard to regulated utility earnings from ongoing operations I'm pleased with the increase we achieved in the first quarter compared with the same period a year ago.
Strong first quarter earnings at our U.K.
Regulated segment drove the 17% increase.
Vince will provide more details on all the quarterly results during his remarks.
Let's move to slide five for a discussion of our 2015 earnings forecast.
Based on first quarter performance we're reaffirming our 2015 forecast range of $2.05 to $2.25 per share for regulated utility earnings from ongoing operations.
The midpoint of this range $2.15 per share is approximately 5.9% higher than the adjusted ongoing earnings from our utility operations in 2014.
Our 2014 adjusted regulated utility earnings from ongoing operations removes Supply earnings and includes the full impact of dissynergies related to the spinoff of Supply including indirect O&amp;M interest and depreciation.
Based on the continued excellent performance of our utility operations the organic growth from planned and approved infrastructure investments and the results of our corporate restructuring efforts we remain very confident in our ability to achieve compound annual growth in earnings of 4% to 6% through at least 2017.
As shown here on slide five for 2015 we're anticipating small increases in earnings in our U.K.
and Kentucky utilities and slightly lower earnings in our Pennsylvania utility.
The slide also shows the significant improvement in the corporate and other category that we expect to realize as a result of our ongoing corporate support cost reductions including the $75 million of dissynergies we discussed at the time we announced the spinoff.
At the outset of the year I mentioned that 2015 is very much a transitional year for PPL.
On April the 1st our U.K.
Regulated segment transitioned to the new RIIO-ED1 eight-year price control period.
On June 1 the spin-off of our Supply business and creation of Talen Energy will be completed.
In Kentucky we expect our rate case to be concluded in the second quarter with new rates taking effect July 1.
And in Pennsylvania we filed a rate case in late March and we're working through the Public Utility Commission's review process.
All these 2015 initiatives are on track and we're really pleased with the progress thus far.
Now let's turn to slide six for an update on our Kentucky Regulated operations.
We continue to make progress on our Kentucky rate proceedings reaching a settlement agreement in April with all the parties in the base rate cases before the Kentucky Public Service Commission.
If the settlement is approved by the commission it will result in an increase of $125 million in annual base electricity rates at Kentucky Utilities and a $7 million increase in annual base gas rates at Louisville Gas &amp; Electric.
The settlement focuses on the total amount of costs we can recover rather than establishing a return on equity with respect to base rates.
While this settlement did not establish an ROE for base rates we will earn a 10% return on equity investment related to the environmental cost recovery mechanism and our gas line tracker mechanism.
The settlement agreement also provides for deferred cost recovery on a portion of the costs associated with pensions and Kentucky Utilities Green River plant which is scheduled to be retired in April of 2016.
We're pleased we were able to reach an unanimous settlement with the parties to the case.
As I mentioned we anticipate that new rates will go into effect on July 1 of this year.
We also continue to focus on major capital projects in Kentucky.
Recent milestones include the retirement of our Cane Run Unit 6 coal-fired generating unit the first of three units that are being retired at that facility.
The retirement comes as the company prepares to bring its new Cane Run 7 combined cycle gas-fired unit online later this quarter.
Turning to slide seven.
On March 31 we filed a request with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission for an increase of $167.5 million in annual distribution revenue requirement at PPL Electric Utilities.
This request is driven by investments we're making to renew strengthen and modernize our Pennsylvania delivery network.
If approved by the PUC we expect the increase to take effect January 1 2016.
We're also set to energize the Susquehanna-Roseland transmission line in just a few days.
This $630 million project represents a major upgrade to the nation's electric grid.
The new 500 KV power line will strengthen reliability for millions of people in the Northeast.
The three-year project created significant economic development benefits in both Pennsylvania and New Jersey including the creation of about 2 000 construction jobs.
This project was one of seven projects nationwide to be fast-tracked by the Obama Administration's Rapid Response Team recognizing its importance.
Building a major transmission line like this requires a tremendous amount of planning communication and cooperation with many different stakeholders including government agencies PSEG our neighboring utility who partner with us on the construction of the line local officials and the public.
Many people were involved in making this project a success.
I appreciate their dedication and the achievement.
This project is a great example of our ability to execute major capital projects that add value for both customers and shareowners.
Turning to slide eight let's briefly discuss domestic weather-normalized sales for the year and the quarter.
In Kentucky weather-normalized sales for the first quarter were down about 0.5% with residential commercial and industrial usage all lower compared to a year ago.
Kentucky experienced lower sales volumes due to a longer period of cold weather in the first quarter of 2014 versus 2015 as well as more extreme weather last year compared to this year.
As you can see first quarter weather normalized 2015 sales were also lower in Pennsylvania than in the first quarter of 2014.
The decrease was driven by lower residential and industrial sales offset slightly by higher commercial sales.
The 2015 weather-normalized sales are 1.2% below 2014.
Similar to Kentucky weather-normalized sales comparisons to 2014 are difficult due to extreme weather impacts.
Although the winter of 2015 was slightly colder than the winter of 2014 2014's polar vortex was much more volatile with more temperature swings.
On a rolling 12-month basis total weather-normalized sales in both Kentucky and Pennsylvania were essentially flat for the 12 months ending March 31 2015 compared to the previous 12-month period.
Moving to slide nine we continue to make significant progress related to the spinoff of our competitive generation business which will be combined with Riverstone's competitive generation business to form Talen Energy.
We've now received all the necessary regulatory approvals to complete the transaction including from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission the Department of Justice the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission.
We expect to close on the transaction June 1.
Talen Energy common stock is expected to begin trading on a when-issued basis on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TLN WI beginning on May 18.
On June 2 regular-way trading of Talen Energy common stock will begin under the symbol TLN.
Immediately following the transaction PPL shareowners will own 65% of Talen Energy's outstanding common stock with Riverstone's affiliates owning the remaining 35%.
The PPL Board of Directors has declared a pro-rata distribution to PPL shareowners of record on May 20.
The distribution ratio is expected to be approximately 0.125 Talen shares for each PPL share and will take place on June 1.
PPL will announce the definitive distribution ratio promptly after the record date based on the actual number of PPL shares outstanding on that date.
Our PPL and Talen transition teams have done a great job of coordinating a transition process that will allow Talen Energy to operate safely and efficiently on day one and result in a lower cost corporate structure for PPL going forward.
Before turning the call over to Vince I would reiterate that we had a solid start to 2015 and we we're able to reach a settlement in the rate case in Kentucky.
And as Vince is going to review shortly PPL's got a strong foundation for future success as a pure play regulated utility company.
PPL is taking significant steps as many of you know to preserve and create shareowner value over the last several years.
As we approach June 1 which will consummate the formation of Talen Energy I want to just take a moment to thank all the PPL employees and future Talen employees that have made this significant effort possible and for all the past contributions of our PPL Energy Supply employees.
I'd also like to thank Paul Farr for his leadership not only with the spin of our Energy Supply business but also for the seven years he spent as PPL's CFO.
I appreciate all they've done and wish them much success.
I'll now ask Vince to provide an update on the first quarter segment results.
Vince? Thank you Bill and good morning everyone.
Let's move to slide 10.
Today I will be comparing our regulated utility earnings results to our adjusted 2014 results.
As Bill indicated the adjusted 2014 results exclude the earnings from the Supply segment and adjust for the dissynergies related to the spin.
These adjustments are consistent in approach with the full-year adjustments we made to our 2014 year-end results.
I will discuss our Supply segment results separately.
Our first quarter regulated utility earnings from ongoing operations increased over last year driven primarily by higher earnings from the U.K.
Regulated segment and in an improvement in corporate and other while the Kentucky Regulated and Pennsylvania Regulated segments remained flat to a year-ago.
Although weather was flat for the domestic utilities compared to last year it was better than normal by about $0.03.
And while earnings from ongoing operations in the U.K.
increased significantly in the quarter compared to year-ago we continue to expect earnings for this segment to be up only slightly on a full-year basis.
This is driven by lower utility revenues as we transitioned to RIIO-ED1 on April 1 of this year offset by improvements in income taxes depreciation expense and the effects of foreign currency.
The increase in corporate and other earnings from ongoing operations was primarily due to the benefits of the corporate restructuring as we expected.
As we've mentioned corporate restructuring effort is well under way and we are already beginning to see those benefits.
At this point we fully expect to be able to achieve the targeted $75 million in corporate support cost savings we discussed during our previous calls.
The Supply first quarter earnings from ongoing operations also remain the same as the first quarter 2014.
Let's move to a more detailed review of the first quarter segment earnings drivers starting with the U.K.
results on slide 11.
Our U.K.
Regulated segment earned $0.50 per share in the first quarter 2015 a $0.09 increase compared to the same period last year.
This increase was due to higher utility revenue due primarily to higher prices partially offset by lower volumes.
Lower depreciation expense driven by the completion of a periodic useful life assessment of certain fixed assets that resulted in an extension of our network asset lives which was partially offset by an increase in depreciation due to asset additions.
Lower financing costs due to lower interest on our index linked debt favorable effects from foreign currency and lower income taxes and other from a lower U.K.
tax rate and lower U.S.
taxes on dividends in 2015.
Moving to slide 12.
Our Kentucky Regulated segment earned $0.16 per share in the first quarter of 2015 flat compared to a year ago.
This result was due to higher gross margins from returns on additional environmental capital investments partially offset by lower sales volumes due to less favorable weather compared to last year and higher income taxes.
Turning to slide 13.
Our Pennsylvania Regulated segment earned $0.13 per share in the first quarter also comparable to last year.
This was primarily due to higher margins from additional transmission investments partially offset by a benefit recorded in the first quarter of 2014 from a change in estimate of a regulatory liability.
Higher margins were offset by higher depreciation due to asset additions.
Finishing our segment review with Supply on slide 14 this segment earned $0.11 per share in the first quarter of 2015 the same as year ago despite the benefit of the unusually cold weather we experienced in Q1 of last year.
Excluding the $0.03 weather impact from 2014 the results were higher primarily due to higher energy prices favorable base load generation and higher intermediate and peaking margins offset by lower capacity prices lower results from full requirement sales contracts and certain other commodity positions.
We also had lower payroll cost and lower financing cost compared to last year.
Moving to slide 15.
On this slide we detail our GBP hedging status for 2015 2016 and 2017 including sensitivities for a $0.05 and $0.10 downward movement in the exchange rate compared to our budgeted rate of $1.60.
First we continue to be hedged at 97% for the remainder of 2015 at an average rate of $1.60.
For 2016 we increased our hedge percentage slightly from 70% at year-end to 72% today at an average rate of $1.61.
We also started to layer in hedges for 2017 during the quarter and we are now 20% hedged for 2017 at an average rate of $1.60.
You can see from the sensitivity table that there is basically no exposure for the remainder of 2015 minimal exposure in 2016 and about $0.04 of exposure in 2017 if our average hedged rate is $1.55 and $0.07 of exposure if it's $1.50.
Also on this slide we are showing an RPI sensitivity.
Under the RIIO methodology our revenues for the 2015-2016 regulatory year were set using a 2.6% inflation rate.
Our revenues in the 2017-2018 time period will reflect a true-up for the actual inflation rate for the 2015-2016 regulatory year.
Current RPI forecasts using the HM Treasury forecast of the U.K.
economy would suggest a 2015-2016 inflation rate of about 2% compared to the 2.6% included in our current revenues.
Therefore we are providing a sensitivity for a 0.5% downward move in RPI for the 2015-2016 time period.
RPI forecasts for 2016 and beyond are either at or above our assumed 3%.
RPI affects three primary financial drivers for WPD: our revenues our O&amp;M and the interest expense on our index-linked debt.
The lower RPI we are currently experiencing does not have a significant effect on our 2015 or 2016 U.K.
earnings guidance we provided during our year-end call.
For 2017 since this is the first year we see the RPI true-up in revenues the lower 2015-2016 RPI of 50 basis points or RPI of about 2% would have a negative effect on earnings of about $0.02 per share in 2017.
Moving to slide 16 we're providing an updated view of our cash repatriation ability in the U.K.
Since our year-end update we continue to evaluate our ability to repatriate cash from the U.K.
We expect to increase our 2015 cash repatriation by about 10% over the information we provided on the year-end earnings call to about $300 million.
We believe we have additional capacity beyond that and for 2016 and 2017 we now forecast that we can bring up to $500 million per year.
We're showing ranges here of $300 million to $500 million for 2016 and 2017 as we will determine the amount based on our domestic cash needs at that time.
We recognize that at $300 million of U.K.
distributions per year the domestic payout ratio to fund our dividend was over 100% beginning in 2016.
With our ability to dividend between $300 million and $500 million a year from WPD over the next few years we would target to get the domestic payout ratio back under 100% for 2016 and continue to lower that domestic payout ratio in 2017 and 2018.
We are confident we can fund the PPL dividend and continue to grow it modestly while we are in this period of high CapEx spending.
Before I turn the call back over to Bill for the Q&amp;A I also want to provide an update on our expectations for bonus revenues in the U.K.
since we receive a lot of questions on this topic.
As we enter the RIIO-ED1 price control period we expect to earn lower bonus revenues as our ability to outperform will be more challenging given the tighter performance targets under RIIO.
Rick Klingensmith has discussed this topic on our previous call.
This will result in lower bonus revenues starting in 2017.
Our business plan assumes $120 million of bonus revenues for 2015 between $120 million and $130 million for 2016 and between $80 million and $100 million for 2017.
And for 2018 when the full impact of the tighter performance targets is seen we would expect to earn between $60 million and $90 million in bonus revenues.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
And I'll turn the call back over to Bill for the question-and-answer period.
Bill? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Vince.
Before we get to the Q&amp;A and as Vince just described PPL is continuing to optimize our U.K.
plans under Rio and providing investors with enhanced disclosures.
We think this additional information will be helpful to better understand our U.K.
business and the exceptional value we feel it provides to our regulated portfolio.
We'll continue to enhance our disclosures in the future as well once we get to Talen spin behind us.
And with that operator let's please open the call up for questions.
Thank you.
Our first question is from Greg Gordon at Evercore ISI.
Good morning gentlemen.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Greg.
So just a few questions on the regulated segments.
So you came in obviously with a big increase in Q1 in the U.K.
Regulated segment.
So basically you expect the headwinds from the lower revenues to fully offset that in the next three quarters and come in flat for the year or did you come in slightly ahead or behind of your budget what you expected in Q1? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Vince you want to take that question? Sure.
How're you doing Greg? Yeah I would say we came in slightly ahead of budget for the quarter but based on the forecast going through the rest of the year we would still expect to maintain our original forecast of around $1.38.
Okay.
And then this $0.02 headwind in 2017 associated with the 50 basis point sensitivity to RPI does that assume that you're unable to offset that with any sort of cost reductions? One would presume if inflation is tracking below trend that your costs might also be somewhat flexible and track below trend? Yeah that would be net of all three components that I discussed.
Okay.
Great.
In Kentucky what percentage of that $132 million should you get approval of the settlement would you expect to flow in the revenue in the second half of 2015? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'm sorry Greg.
Could you repeat that question again? How much of the $132 million annualized rate increase that is codified in the settlement would actually flow into 2015 revenue if it's approved as currently proposed? Yeah.
It would be about half Greg.
Great.
And then the timing sorry.
Let me just rewind a bit back to the answer on the U.K.
Yeah.
I think that $0.02 that we're talking about on the RPI would not include any potential offsets that we might achieve based on lower inflation that could impact O&amp;M.
Okay.
So in other words if inflation is tracking below expectations costs might also track below expectations and mitigate that $0.02 impact? That is correct.
Great.
And then the timing of the decision in Pennsylvania based on the filing when would you expect to get a revenue decision? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Go ahead.
Yeah so the based on the normal flow it'd be December we'd get the final ruling from the PUC.
Okay.
And then last question.
You've given us a couple years of visibility on your expectation for U.K.
earnings.
Given the headwind of the expected bonus revenue decline from $125 million at the midpoint to $90 million to $75 million when do you expect to get on a playing field in the U.K.
where you would expect to have the opportunity to show growth in the earnings power of that business? Is it the 2018 fiscal year 2019 2020? When do we get to the point where sort all the headwinds have been mitigated and you start to grow again? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It would really began in around the 2018 timeframe Greg.
Okay.
So in 2018 you're confident you could overcome that last negative step-down? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's kind of the base year.
I think that's – yeah 2018 is kind of the base year because that's the last year when we do the step-down or reflect the lower new bonus revenue that we just disclosed today and then it would be a trajectory off of that.
Okay.
So 2018 through the end of the current rate period? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
You're welcome.
The next question comes from Daniel Eggers at Credit Suisse.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Dan.
Good morning Dan.
Hey.
Good morning.
Just a couple questions.
One I guess the U.K.
elections are upon us can you just give any thoughts of what effect that may have on your business or with the RIIO in place are you guys well protected at this point? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think we feel pretty confident that the U.K.
election would have no material effect on us.
We would expect as you've probably read as well probably a coalition government would get established.
As you know we've have already got our license it's been approved and well in hand.
And on the distribution side of the business we would really not expect any material change.
Okay just wanted to make sure.
And then with the load growth you're kind of showing negative on a weather normalized basis.
Should we read much into that as it being hard to disaggregate weather in the volatile first quarters the last two years or is there something more structural going on as far as the lack of recovery in usage? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No I think you hit on it.
I think it's just a difficult thing to model and so I wouldn't read anything through on the first quarter results at all.
If we look at the trailing 12 months versus trailing 12 months it still has some of that same friction is the first quarter of both years skewing that number enough that we should probably disregard those as well? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes that would be our opinion.
Yeah.
And are you comfortable with kind of the low-drift forecast you guys have given previously on a normalized basis? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We are we've said about 0.5% per year of low growth and we still think that's a reasonable expectation.
And I guess the U.K.
looks a little bit better for this year at this point and I'm going to guess utilities maybe a little bit behind plan not much but a little.
Are you thinking that the base of the U.K.
should cover any sort of load weakness you might have had in the first part of the year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think it has for the first quarter certainly and we didn't update obviously the guidance despite a really strong first quarter just because we're early in the year.
And we've got the summer to go which obviously from a weather standpoint could have a material effect potentially depending on how the weather turns out on utility earnings.
Got it.
Yeah.
Dan I would just add that I think the domestic utilities first quarter results are very consistent with what we were expecting.
They're not behind.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're welcome.
The next question comes from Michael Weinstein at UBS.
Hi good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning.
I was wondering if you could talk about the tax consequences of the repatriation? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Go ahead Vince.
Sure.
No incremental U.S.
income tax as a result of the additional cash repatriation.
Okay.
And then a separate question on PJM's capacity auction that's coming up.
Wondering if you could kind of highlight what kinds of assets you think might be base versus capacity performance and in your own fleet as well as other assets outside of your fleet and what you think might be the differential or would cause the differential between the pricing that will count for each category President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Let me ask Paul Farr to address that question.
PPL Corp.</span></strong> Okay.
For our own fleet as we think about the way the rules came out in more final form in December versus the original October white paper other than a de-rate for the hydro facilities in PJM I would see the entirety of our fleet qualifying on the PPL Energy Supply side really as well as the PJM assets on the Riverstone qualifying for CP.
Which assets would be likely bid based by a generation owner based upon risk and what asset classes like DR – like limited DR that wouldn't qualify for an annual bid because it's a full-year requirement for CP but the limited wouldn't.
And I think a lot of that it would be tough to group together some of that other DR.
So I think a lot of that kind of falls out to base.
And then even though we've got really strong EFORds for our fleet if you've got coal assets that have been very challenged economically and you've not been putting capital into the plan and you have a very hard time forecasting a forced outage rate so it becomes very difficult to predict penalties.
I think you effectively bid those base simply because you're not willing to take the penalty exposure.
And then the other assets that are in the system like our hydro assets that would get de-rated or renewables assets that get de-rated all as well kind of fall out.
And if they are bid in they would be at fractional percentages of their base or name-plate capacity.
Right.
So you see all of your assets in the CP category? PPL Corp.</span></strong> That's correct.
And do you think there will be a big price differential between CP and base? PPL Corp.</span></strong> I think there will be a reasonably sized price differential between CP and base.
By definition if you're in base if you've got your plan hedged you still have the LMP penalty of not running your unit and you have sold forward the power.
We have that today in the BRA auctions up to this point in payment.
(33:47) But because of the penalty exposure of nonperformance in CP it's very I think rational and economically logical that people are going to have to bid that risk into their required results from CP and you're going to see those risks bid into prices and the CP clearing at higher than base.
Okay.
Thank you very much Paul.
PPL Corp.</span></strong> You bet.
Our next question comes from Paul Patterson at Glenrock Associates.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Paul.
Most of my questions have been asked and answered.
But just if you could elaborate a little bit more on how you guys went about hedging the currency for 2017.
Just in general are you guys using options or did the forward actually get up to $1.60? Sorry to be so sort of – I don't have all the data in front of me.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
It did not get up to the $1.60.
It did get quite strong there for a while.
It's backed off a little bit but it's still above $1.50 and I think yesterday it was about $1.52.
But I'll let Vince describe what tools we're using and how we hedged 2017.
Sure.
So Paul what we did was for the – as you know our 2015 hedges are well in the money because we hedged those north of in some cases $1.60.
And so what we were able to do was basically reprice some of our 2015 in the money hedges lower the strikes a little bit on those.
And that enabled us to basically get in the money hedges out in 2017.
And so the impact of doing that is actually about a $0.02 hit to 2015 but it enabled us to preserve about 20% of our hedge levels in 2017 at our budgeted rate of $1.60.
Okay.
So you guys are taking advantage of some in the money hedges this year and swapping it into 2017 and for what seems to be kind of small cost of $0.02 a share.
Does that make am I getting it right? Essentially yes.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah that's a good summary.
Okay great.
That's it thanks so much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Paul.
And our next question comes from Michael Lapides at Goldman Sachs.
Hey guys congrats on a good start of the year.
Can you talk – now that you're beginning the first days of RIIO I mean you've known it's coming for a while.
Can you talk about opportunities for O&amp;M or expense management you see over the next couple years in the U.K? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Let me – Michael I'll ask Rick Klingensmith to comment on that.
PPL Global and PPL Energy Services PPL Corp.</span></strong> Good morning Michael.
You're right as we head into RIIO we're heading into a new regulatory regime that's primarily related with the revenue side of the equation and how the regulator is rewarding us for both costs as well as innovation and on the incentive standpoint.
From an operating cost standpoint though what you've seen us perform in the last couple years especially with the Midlands properties will just continue from an operating standpoint into the future.
So our expectation is not a very significant or material change in the way we operate the business and the way we're performing on the business to deliver the high levels of reliability the high levels of customer service.
We will continue to seek out areas of efficiency and use technology in any other applications that we can going forward and we will expect some level of ongoing efficiencies but probably not at the same level you saw as we had with the changes that we made with the Midlands properties.
And so from a cost standpoint though it's almost pretty much business as usual as we move into the RIIO period with the major effect from RIIO affecting how the revenues are paid out.
Got it.
And then in the U.S.
how are you thinking about the next cycle of rate cases meaning you've got a Kentucky settlement you're into the process in Pennsylvania what happens now? Do you stay out for a number of years in both places? Do you have a limited amount of time and then you're back in filing in front of regulators? How are you thinking about just kind of the cycle? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well as we continue to deploy capital and look for cost efficiencies it's an ongoing evaluation of when or if there is a need to go back in.
Clearly in Kentucky we've still got quite a bit of work to do to meet the match rules and conclude some of the plans but in that case the bulk of that capital is going to be through the tracker mechanisms that we have there.
And as I mentioned in my opening remarks this settlement that we have before the Kentucky Public Service Commission would have us at a 10% ROE for that spending.
So it's really just kind of an ongoing evaluation and at this time as Greg just filed his rate case in Pennsylvania that's going to take some time to play out.
So yet to be determined what that cycle may look like in the future.
Got it.
Thanks guys much appreciated.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're welcome.
Operator do we have any other questions in the queue? There are currently no questions in the queue if you'd like to make any closing comments.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Okay very good.
Thanks for joining us today.
We'll look to speak with you on the next quarterly earnings call.
Thank you.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the PPL Corporation's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Joe Bergstein Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Emily and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining the PPL conference call on second quarter results and our general business outlook.
We are providing slides to this presentation on our website at www.pplweb.com.
Any statements made in this presentation about future operating results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
A discussion of the factors that could cause actual results or events to differ is contained in the appendix to this presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
We will refer to earnings from ongoing operations or ongoing earnings and other non-GAAP measures on this call.
For reconciliations to the GAAP measures you should refer to the press release which has been posted on our website and has been filed with the SEC.
This time I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Spence PPL Chairman President and CEO.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Joe.
Good morning everyone.
We're pleased that you joined us this morning.
With me on the call today are Vince Sorgi PPL's Chief Financial Officer; and the presidents of our three business segments.
Moving to slide 3 you'll see an agenda for today's discussion.
As we typically do we'll provide an overview of our quarterly and year-to-date earnings results which I'm pleased to say include significant growth in earnings from ongoing operations.
We'll discuss our 2015 earnings forecasts which we are increasing along with our dividend based on the continued strong performance of our utilities and I'll provide an operational overview as well.
Vince will review our segment results and provide a more detailed financial overview.
And as always we'll have plenty of time to answer your questions.
But before we dive into the quarter results I'd like to share with you my thoughts about the new PPL.
As you know June 1st marked a major milestone in our company's history.
On that day we completed the spinoff of our competitive supply business.
And in doing so we completed a strategic transformation of PPL that began with our acquisition of two regulated utilities in Kentucky followed by the expansion of our utility operations in the United Kingdom.
It's a transformation that has been exceptionally well executed provides earnings and dividend growth potential will create significant value for our share owners and positions PPL well for continued growth and success.
Today in our first earnings call since the spinoff of the supply segment our focus has never been clearer.
Our ability to control our own destiny through our proven track record of execution has never been greater.
And I without a doubt have never been more excited about where we're headed.
Moving to slide 4 let me expand on some of the reasons why.
PPL is now a pure play regulated utility investment made up of seven high-performing award-winning and growing utility companies.
Year in and year out these utilities prove themselves to be among the best in our industry.
They are diverse and located in different regions with different regulatory structures.
They offer a mix of regulated assets you'd be hard-pressed to find anywhere else in our sector.
Each utility operates in what we consider to be a premium jurisdiction.
In addition all of our utilities are investing heavily in infrastructure producing robust rate base growth for PPL.
In fact organic growth in our domestic utilities is among the strongest in the U.S.
utility sector with 8% to 10% earnings growth expected through 2017.
We expect our combined rate base in the U.S.
alone to grow by 47% over the next five years.
That's the equivalent of adding another major utility to our portfolio.
Our balance sheet is strong and so are our cash flows credit ratings and very competitive dividend.
The bottom line we believe the new PPL with its strong growth profile a solid dividend and a diverse mix of holdings is a unique and very compelling investment option in the U.S.
utility sector.
Looking at slide 5 you can see that robust rate base growth combined with jurisdictions that permit near real-time recovery of our infrastructure investments is what will drive our targeted 4% to 6% earnings growth.
I want to point out that the 2017 $2.35 of earnings per share shown here represents a projection based on the mid-point of our 4% to 6% compound annual growth target off our 2014 adjusted earnings.
It does not represent earnings guidance for 2017.
Across the portfolio over $10 billion in CapEx spending is expected to produce compound annual rate base growth of more than 7% or $5 billion by the end of 2017.
For 2015 through 2017 over 80% of that CapEx earns a return within 12 months and approximately 76% in less than six months.
This combination creates a very strong foundation for future earnings growth.
Let's turn to slide 6.
This slide offers additional detail on why we feel our U.S.
operations in Pennsylvania and Kentucky operate in constructive regulatory environments.
Domestically we have favorable allowed ROEs in both Pennsylvania and Kentucky.
When coupled with the numerous recovery mechanisms that reduce regulatory lag including the DISC in Pennsylvania and the ECR in Kentucky we are well positioned to achieve our earnings growth targets.
We have excellent growth in transmission with allowed base ROEs of 11.68% to the formula rate and a 12.93% allowed ROE for the $630 million Susquehanna-Roseland project as well as a return on CWIP for the $335 million Northeast Pocono reliability project in Pennsylvania.
It's this list of trackers and recovery mechanisms that drive the rapid recovery I described on the prior slide of 76% of our CapEx earning and return in less than six months and over 80% earning return in less than 12 months.
Turning to slide 7 we provide a more detailed look at why we also believe the UK offers a superior regulatory jurisdiction.
The RIIO-ED1 framework in the UK provides long-term inflation-adjusted rate certainty without volumetric exposure and Ofgem has accepted our business plans which include total spend of over $19 billion over the eight-year regulatory period.
About $11 billion of that spend will drive growth in our regulated asset value or RAV.
It also offers the potential to outperform through performance incentives which as you know WPD has been very successful at earning in the past and it offers us the opportunity to earn an adjusted expected return on equity in the mid to upper teens through 2017.
We're uniquely positioned with our history of strong performance and innovation to earn these favorable returns in this premium jurisdiction.
Our utilities in the UK are the four best performers in the country.
They were the only utilities to be approved for fast tracking of their business plans under RIIO.
This enables them to collect additional revenue of about $43 million annually and retain 70% of cost efficiencies compared to about 55% for the slow track DNOs.
And the UK business is self-funding and does not require any equity from PPL.
In fact we have the flexibility to dividend between $300 million and $500 million of cash back to the U.S.
annually in a tax efficient manner.
Turning to slide 8 our board approved an increase in our common stock dividend raising it from $1.49 to $1.51 per share on an annualized basis.
This marks PPL's 13th dividend increase in 14 years.
The quarterly dividend of $0.3775 per share will be payable October 1 to shareowners of record as of September the 10th.
The increase in the dividend is consistent with our prior messaging that we would look to raise the dividend after the completion of the spin.
Turning to slide 9 in summary we're confident in our ability to achieve our 4% to 6% earnings growth targets through at least 2017.
We expect 8% to 10% growth in our domestic utility earnings and approximately 2% growth coming from our corporate restructuring efforts which combined are more than offsetting relatively flat earnings expectations in our UK business over this time period.
There are several key drivers to our organic growth in the domestic utilities and these include strong transmission rate-based growth of 18.9% through 2017 in Pennsylvania; limited volumetric risk in our distribution operation in Pennsylvania due to our rate structures and recovery mechanisms; environmental spending and favorable rate case outcomes contribute to our growth in Kentucky.
And outside the U.S.
the UK spending program of $4.8 billion along with our projected incentive return support our overall RAV growth and strong financial performance.
Before turning to our quarterly results I want to reiterate how optimistic I am about PPL's future.
I believe PPL's diverse mix of assets our low overall business and regulatory risk and our proven track record of earnings performance and transparency set us apart from our peers.
It's a new day for PPL but we'll continue to deliver for our customers and our shareowners.
Turning to slide 11 today we reported a second quarter 2015 loss of $757 million or $1.13 per share.
This reflects a $1 billion loss or $1.50 per share from discontinued operations associated with the June 1st spinoff of our competitive supply business.
The loss from discontinued operations included an $879 million loss reflecting the fair value of the supply business at the time of the spinoff compared to the recorded value of the segment.
Vince will address the loss from discontinued operations in more detail in his remarks.
By comparison second quarter 2014 reported earnings were $229 million or $0.34 per share.
The reported loss for the first six months of 2015 which also reflects the loss on discontinued operations was $110 million or $0.17 per share compared with reported earnings of $545 million or $0.83 per share for the same period in 2014.
Adjusting for special items including results from discontinued operations second quarter of 2015 earnings from ongoing operations were $0.49 per share up 11% from second quarter 2014 adjusted results.
And year-to-date ongoing earnings of $1.26 per share is 15% higher than 2014.
As you'll see on slide 12 because of the strong performance of our utilities year-to-date primarily in the UK and Kentucky we are raising the mid-point of our 2015 earnings forecast by $0.05.
That increases the midpoint to $2.20 per share an 8.4% increase from our 2014 adjusted ongoing earnings of $2.03 per share.
For the full year we see an improvement in our UK regulated segment as a result of lower depreciation expense partially offset by the cost incurred to re-price some of the 2015 foreign currency hedges and lower operating and maintenance expense coupled with supportive weather in our Kentucky regulated segment.
Now let's turn to slide 13 for an operational update.
In Pennsylvania PPL Electric Utilities continues to meet with various state and federal agencies regarding its proposed compass regional transmission project and to study potential options for the transmission line.
The project announced in July of 2014 would involve construction of a new multi-state transmission line that would improve electric service reliability enhance grid security and provide cost savings to millions of consumers in the PJM and New York ISO regions.
We will continue to provide updates as this project moves further along.
Also in Pennsylvania we're awaiting a decision from the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission on PPL Electric Utilities' request to replace its $1.4 million electric meters with new more advanced meters.
The company has proposed replacing its meters between 2017 and 2019 to provide expanded benefits to customers and to comply with state-mandated regulations on metering technology estimated to cost about $450 million of which $328 million is expected to increase rate base.
A PUC administrative law judge has recommended approval of that plan.
In addition PPL Electric Utilities' March 31 distribution rate case remains pending before the Pennsylvania PUC.
As part of this regulatory process the company has engaged in ongoing settlement discussions with the parties.
We'll of course keep you updated as the case proceeds.
The company has requested an increase of $167.5 million in annual base distribution revenues.
The request is driven by continued investments required to renew strengthen and modernize our Pennsylvania distribution network.
We've already seen significant improvement in system reliability based on the investments made to-date as we're experiencing 38% fewer outages than five years ago.
And the average length of time our customers are without power has been reduced by 43%.
The investment being requested in this rate case is expected to further improve system reliability by another 20% over the next five years.
We expect the revenue increase to take effect January 1st of 2016.
In Kentucky the Kentucky PUC in late June issued final orders that resulted in an increase of $125 million in annual base electricity rates at Kentucky Utilities and a $7 million increase in annual base gas rates at Louisville Gas &amp; Electric.
The new rates became effective July 1st as anticipated.
And after more than two years and over two million construction hours the new $530 million 640-megawatt Cane Run Unit 7 combined cycle gas plant is now commercially available.
This unit is the first of its kind in the state and represents our commitment to put resources in place to meet the future energy needs of our customers.
Since the start of the operations the unit has been running as a baseload unit.
Finally our WPD subsidiaries in the UK transitioned to the new eight-year price control period RIIO-ED1 on April 1 2015.
While it's only been a few months under RIIO-ED1 so far we're performing very well in either meeting or exceeding our performance targets.
With that I'll turn the call over to Vince to provide a more detailed look at our financial performance.
Vince? Thank you Bill and good morning everyone.
Let's move to slide 15 for a review of segment earnings.
Our second quarter earnings from ongoing operations increased over last year by $0.05 per share driven primarily by higher earnings from the UK Regulated segment and lower cost in Corporate and Other resulting from the corporate restructuring efforts which are essentially complete.
As Bill mentioned earlier PPL's reported earnings for the quarter and year-to-date reflected losses from discontinued operations associated with the June 1st spinoff of our competitive supply business.
The accounting rules required us to evaluate whether the fair value of the supply segment's net asset was less than our carrying value as of the June 1st spinoff date and we determined that it was.
This resulted in a loss on spin of $875 million.
In addition to the loss on spin supply's operating results and all costs associated with the spin are classified on the income statement as discontinued operations for all current and prior periods.
You can find additional details on the spinoff our valuation methodologies used in determining our estimated fair value for supply and information on our transition services agreements with Talen in our second quarter 10-Q that we are filing today.
Let's briefly discuss domestic weather for the second quarter and year-to-date compared to last year and compared to the 2015 forecast.
Overall domestic weather was flat until last year for both the quarter and year-to-date periods.
However compared to our 2015 forecast weather had a positive $0.03 impact year-to-date and was flat for the second quarter.
Let's move to a more detailed review of the second quarter segment earnings drivers starting with the Pennsylvania results on slide 16.
Our Pennsylvania regulated segment earned $0.07 per share in the second quarter a decrease of $0.01 per share compared with the year ago.
This result was due to higher O&amp;M expenses and higher depreciation due to asset additions partially offset by higher margins from additional transmission investments.
Moving to slide 17 our Kentucky-regulated segment earned $0.09 per share in the second quarter of 2015 flat compared to a year ago.
This result was due to higher gross margins from returns on additional environment capital investments offset by higher O&amp;M expenses related to costs for the retirement of the Cane Run coal facility.
Moving to slide 18 our UK-regulated segment earned $0.36 per share in the second quarter of 2015 a $0.03 increase compared to the same period last year.
This increase was due to lower income taxes from a lower UK tax rate and lower U.S.
taxes on dividends in 2015 compared to 2014 and lower depreciation expense from the asset life extension we discussed last quarter.
These increases were partially offset by lower utility revenues as we transition to RIIO-ED1 on April 1 of this year and the effects from foreign currency.
Moving to slide 19 on this slide we provide an update to our GBP hedging status for 2015 2016 and 2017 including sensitivities for a $0.05 and $0.10 downward movement in the exchange rate compared to our budgeted rate of $1.60.
As you can see we continue to be fully hedged for the remainder of 2015 at an average rate of $1.58.
For 2016 we increased our hedge percentage from 72% at the end of the first quarter to 90% today at an average rate of $1.61.
We also continue to layer in hedges for 2017 during the quarter and we are now 40% hedged for 2017 at an average rate of $1.62 up from the 20% we reported in the first quarter.
You can see from the sensitivity table that there's basically no exposure for the remainder of 2015 minimal exposure in 2016 and about $0.03 of exposure in 2017 if the average hedge rate on our open positions is $1.55.
Also on this slide we have updated our RPI sensitivity.
As we discussed last quarter under the RIIO methodology our revenues for the 2015 2016 regulatory year were set using a 2.6% inflation rate.
Our revenues in 2017-2018 will reflect the true-up for the actual inflation rate for the 2015-2016 regulatory year.
Current RPI forecast using the HM Treasury forecast of the UK economy would suggest a 2015-2016 inflation rate of about 1.8% compared to the 2.6% included in our revenue.
We are providing a sensitivity for a 0.5% downward move in RPI for the 2015-2016 period.
RPI forecast for 2016 and beyond continue to be either above or at our assumed 3%.
RPI affects three primary drivers for WPD: Our revenues our O&amp;M expenses and the interest expense on index-linked debt.
For 2017 since this is the first year we see the RPI true-up in revenues a 2015-2016 RPI of 50 basis points below our budgeted rate or an RPI of about 2.1% would have a negative effect on earnings of about $0.02 per share in 2017.
As noted in the footnote we updated the sensitivity to include the partial O&amp;M and interest expense offsets in the sensitivity.
Let's move to slide 20.
As Bill mentioned earlier in his remarks we have announced an increase in our common stock dividend to $1.51 per share on an annualized basis.
We have received several questions regarding our ability to fund and continue to grow our dividend during this period of high CapEx spending.
We're providing a new disclosure this quarter which presents how we view our domestic cash flow picture.
We start with our domestic cash from operations and subtract the domestic maintenance CapEx as represented by depreciation expense.
We then add the cash distributions we received from the UK.
But as you can see in the table we have sufficient domestic cash flows to fund our maintenance capital and the common stock dividend.
So the debt and equity issuances in the U.S.
are funding our domestic growth CapEx and ongoing debt maturities.
From a cash perspective we believe this is the appropriate way to look at it since the UK is a completely self-funding business.
Before I turn the call back over to Bill for the Q&amp;A I'd like to reiterate Bill's comments that we are confident in our ability to achieve our stated 4% to 6% earnings growth target through at least 2017.
This growth directly reflects our robust capital expenditure plan combined with very constructive regulatory structures at significantly reduced regulatory lag driving an expected 8% to 10% EPS growth at our domestic utilities.
That level of growth combined with lower corporate and other costs which will add an additional 2% earnings growth over this period more than offsets the relatively flat earnings growth profile expected from UK during the period.
We continue to believe that U.K.
is a premium jurisdiction given an eight-year rate cycle with revenue and RAV index to inflation and an incentive-based model that given our historical best-in-sector performance provides us the opportunity to continue to earn very strong ROEs in the UK expected to be in the mid to upper teens through 2017.
We also believe our common stock dividend is not only very competitive but very secure and poised for future growth.
That concludes my prepared remarks and I'll turn the call over to Bill for the Q&amp;A period.
Bill? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Vince and operator we are now ready for questions please.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question is from Daniel Eggers of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Dan.
Thanks for all the updates today.
I guess you know always been a little bit greedy you talk about through at least 2017.
When we kind of look beyond that the UK should be through the transition period as far as the normalization of incentives.
When we look at the U.S.
utilities how do you guys think about the growth and I guess with CPP coming today how are you guys sort of think about layering that into your capital budgeting? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Well with the Clean Power Plan just being released today obviously we're going to need a little bit of time as I think you are to kind of look through what this all means.
But I think as you noted in your note this morning I think it does support potentially higher CapEx for the utilities segment generally speaking.
And I think the pieces that I've read about the Clean Power Plan are pretty consistent with what we would have expected.
I think in Kentucky we'll need to study it a little bit more closely to kind of see what the impact on our Kentucky operations might be.
But I think going beyond 2017 clearly we're going to look to incorporate whatever we may need to do to respond to the Clean Power Plan.
And I think in PPL's case as I indicated in my prepared remarks we do have the Compass program or project which is obviously a fairly large chunk of transmission spend that potentially start to come into our capital plans post-2017.
So we'll continue to monitor that specific project and any other transmission projects as we go forward.
So I think those would be kind of the key drivers Dan.
And I guess Bill anything about the CPP? I know it's early but how do you – what kind of dialogs are you having with the states particularly in Kentucky? And how are you planning to work with those different states and trying to devise plans or work with them to try and meet with the EPAs laying out from a goal perspective? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Relative to Kentucky I'll ask Vic Staffieri to give you more color on that.
Go ahead Vic.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer Kentucky Utilities Co.</span></strong> Yes.
We have been meeting with the state as have the other utilities to try to develop a program that best accommodates the earlier draft of the CPP.
We now understand that the new one is coming out today.
There may be some stricter requirements.
I'm confident that we'll go back to the commission and work with them to find a way that meets those requirements and in best interest of all of our stakeholders.
I think we have in place the regulatory structures to allow us to recover the cost.
We were looking at a power plant that we were going to put in place in 2018.
We've delayed that a little bit and we still have – we know where we want to put it.
We know where the transmission would be.
And those are kinds of some the options we would look at.
We have a very favorable DSM program in recovery.
If we have to accelerate that we can.
So I think we have the regulatory tools to accommodate it but until I see the final – we see the final requirements today it's hard for us to comment definitively.
But we do have a good relationship with our commission.
We have been working on putting in place a program to accommodate the previous draft of the CPP.
And I'm confident that we'll work again once we get these final regulations out.
Great.
Thanks.
I just want to ask one additonal one on the UK performance.
Obviously you guys keep doing better each quarter than probably we were expecting or even where guidance has fallen out.
Can you just give a little color more holistically as to what's going on in the UK that allows you guys to keep exceeding expectations? And are you set up in a way where you're going to maybe do better than this normalized flat growth over the next couple of years? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Rick why don't you take that question? I think overall Dan that the UK continues for us to be a tremendous success story.
I think you've seen us consistently outperform and obviously we believe we're the best network operator in the UK.
And clearly our integration of the central networks went exceptionally well and really was just flawless.
So Vince commented that we believe it's a premium jurisdiction and it's really going to help bring cash back.
It's going to help fund our domestic growth as well and support the dividend.
So in terms of outperformance going forward maybe Rick you could talk about some of the things that might drive the outperformance as we look to the future.
PPL Global Inc.</span></strong> Now Bill as you mentioned the outperformance especially in customer service customer reliability that we have announced in the last Q1 earnings call about $130 million of incentive revenue that resulted from our performance for the regulatory year ending in March.
This year though as you look at our outperformance we had also discussed that in Vince's remarks that in Q1 we did talk about an asset life extension.
We had a major engineering study that we had performed at the end of our last regulatory period here as we head into RIIO-ED1.
And as a result we did extend the asset lives of a number of our assets.
And so the 2015 outperformance and the reason we can increase guidance for 2015 was really driven by the lower depreciation expense than what we had expected or planned for for this year.
Got it.
Thank you guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Dan.
Our next question is from Julien Dumoulin-Smith of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Morning.
Excellent.
So first quick question here just where do we stand on synergies and parent cost guidance after the spin here? I suppose that's a first consideration? Then in tandem with that I'd also be curious given the charge today how do you think about tax benefits and ability to bring back cash from UK to the consequence of the charge as well.
How did that play into your tax planning if you will? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Let me start and then I'll ask Vince to supplement my comments.
But I think first on the corporate shared services cost or what we've called dyssynergies of the spin transaction we've done an excellent job of identifying how we were planning to reduce many of those shared services costs that otherwise would be stranded.
And we're well on track if not ahead of plan on that.
We're actually looking at opportunities for additional synergies or cost reductions as we go forward.
So I think we've done a really great job of addressing what could have been a drag on earnings.
And as I mentioned in my initial remarks part of the growth domestically that we're going to see comes from corporate shared services costs coming in lower than we had originally expected.
So with that brief bit of background maybe Vince you want to put some more details around those two questions.
Sure.
So Julien let me cover your tax question.
So the spin as I think you know was designed to be a tax-free spin so the $875 million loss was a pre and post tax number.
There was no tax consequence of that so the whole thing was treated as a tax-free transaction.
So really no impact on our future tax position.
I think extending bonus is probably the biggest item that would favorably actually impact our tax position going forward.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Vince.
And then just last one it's actually a little detailed question here.
As you look at your FX hedging program you've obviously shifted the – I suppose the contango in the – or perhaps this contango that emerged in your hedging program for FX.
Can you talk to that? Basically in the quarter did you shift hedges on FX or is this really just what's arrived that we're organically layering in FX hedges against each of the respective years 2015 2016 2017? We did Julien.
We did shift some hedges from 2015 now into 2016 and 2017.
The total impact for 2015 is about $0.035.
Got it.
And would it be fair to say that's pretty similar to what the uplift is in subsequent years? It is.
Yeah.
Okay.
Great.
Well thank you guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Julien.
Our next question is from Greg Gordon of Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Just a quick follow-up on Julien's last question.
So essentially the way I think about the hedged disclosure is you're doing well enough this year in terms of meeting your earnings guidance that you're able to raise lower end of the guidance range while still moving some of the impact – moving essentially some of the benefits of hedging out a year is that right? That's correct Greg.
Oh that's good.
Great.
The second question is as I think about the slide where you talked about the cash sources and uses you give us a projection for 2015.
If I look at that going out into 2016 it is right that the cash flow being repatriated back from U.K.
rises to between $300 million and $500 million.
That's correct.
Okay.
Fantastic.
And then finally the...
Wait.
I'm sorry.
What – rephrase the question.
Yeah.
You've got – page 16 of your cash repatriation guidance for the UK Regulated segment...
Right.
...has cash coming back going from $290 million to between $300 million to $500 million? Oh yes.
So all I'm saying is you show $290 million on the slide associated with cash coming back from the UK on that new cash sources and uses on page 20.
Yes.
And that goes up to somewhere between $300 million and $500 million as they go out to 2016 to 2018.
Yeah.
I would expect the next few years to look – if you look at that cash available for reinvestment line that $250 million I would suspect it will be around that level improving a little bit over that period.
Don't forget we also had net about $130 million that we received from supply.
So that'll go away in the 2015 number and that'll be replaced by the higher dividends from the UK.
So...
Okay.
Got it.
Got it.
Great.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then my final question is the CapEx and rate base forecast for 2019.
I just want to be clear does that include or exclude this potential Compass project in Pennsylvania? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That excludes it Greg.
It's not in there.
Okay.
Great.
Congratulations on the quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks very much Greg.
Appreciate it.
Our next question is from Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
How are you? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Paul.
Very good.
My question has been answered really.
But just – could you just go over again what happened in terms of the charge associated with supply? Just if you could just break it down like what exactly is causing it to – what's actually driving that? I mean if you could you just sort of break it down sort of layman's terms.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
I'll let Vince take that one.
Good morning Paul.
So yeah.
So what happened was we need to do an estimate of fair value at the date of spin and then compare that to the book value.
And what we did was we used the combination of thee different valuation methodologies basically two market approaches and one income approach which is a discounted cash flow approach.
One of the market approaches was the use of a Talen market value of their equity as of the spinoff date which was the last day as you know of their when issued trading period.
And so that number – and we waited about a 50% weighting to that because it was publicly available information.
And that was a lower number than we were expecting to end up at the end of when issued.
So that I think drove some of the decrease in fair value say since year end and then just power prices have come off in PJM.
So I think when you look at the DCF that was lower and the market approach was lower than what we were expecting combined resulted in about a $3.2 billion fair value against the $4.1 billion book value.
Okay.
Great.
And is that pretty much over? We shouldn't expect anything going forward on this? Yeah.
No.
Yeah.
That's it.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're welcome.
Our next question is from Gregg Orrill of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Gregg.
Gregg? Mr.
Orrill your line...
Inc.</span></strong> Sorry.
I was on mute there.
Sorry about that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's okay.
Go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the pay-out policy.
As you look out into 2016 and beyond I know you've talked about getting below a payout of the U.S.
businesses and the cash flows from the UK.
How are you looking at that going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Just to be clear Gregg are you talking about the dividend payout ratio for the total dividend or just the dividends coming back from the UK? Inc.</span></strong> I guess really the dividend policy 2016 2017 et cetera.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Yeah.
So I think where we sit today in the 65% to 70% range is I think a comfortable range for us to continue to be in.
So I think as Vince and I have stated in the past we'll continue to look for opportunities to modestly raise the dividend particularly as we're going through a fairly large CapEx spending program and post that large program look to see if we could enhance it even more.
But I think where we are in terms of the dividend payout ratio today is fairly consistent with our new peer group and we're fairly comfortable with it.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Our next question is from Keith Stanley of Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
One quick clarification on the asset life extension and depreciation changes in the UK this year.
I think it was a $0.10 benefit for this year.
How much of that benefit was in your initial 2015 guidance and is it fair to assume it's fully baked into the updated guidance now? So there was $0.10 year-over-year that represented about $0.06 better than expectation and yes we have that.
That basically continues going forward.
So that is in our updated guidance.
Okay.
So there's $0.06 increment from the initial guidance to the updated guidance.
Yes.
Okay.
Thank you.
Okay.
Our next question is from Neel Mitra of Tudor Pickering.
Please go ahead.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
I had a question on the ROE in the UK.
You guys mentioned that it's roughly 15% to 18% through 2017.
What's your overall target I guess once the UK earnings start to grow off at the 2017 base for that ROE? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well go ahead Vince.
I'll let you take a stab at that one.
Sure.
Neel when you say 'target' you mean where do we think ROEs are going to be kind of in the middle of RIIO? Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
After you start growing there again since I guess there's three years of flat earnings there? Yes.
So I would say we kind of stay in the low to mid-teens out through 2019 would be our expectation.
I think we're going out a little – a little too far even at that level to be honest with you to give you ROE projections.
But still quite healthy ROEs as I would say even throughout RIIO.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And is 2017 the last year I guess of flat earnings you start growing off of that base or could there be further years out where there's flat earnings? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I think on the previous calls we've really just talked about it being flat earnings through the 2017 period.
And beyond that beginning in 2018 we'll kind of assess as we go forward.
Obviously a key in terms of earnings for bringing back to the U.S.
is going to be what the FX rates are the RPI.
There'll be a lot of other moving factors that could help or hurt the projection of earnings per share coming from the UK.
So I think it's a little early to make any significant projection at this point.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And last question with the RPI if that were to come down would there be some sort of – kind of pass-through with just lower O&amp;M cost from your side or are you guys kind of managing the business as efficient as you can right now? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We're always managing as efficient as we can.
But I think to the extent that inflation is driving the RPI down that could have a ripple effect – a positive ripple effect on our cost of maintaining the networks through lower contracted cost for either labor or material.
So yes it could have a potential offset.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> And that's not included in your sensitivity? No.
We did – we updated the sensitivity to include all three components.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're welcome.
Operator we have time for one more question please.
Our last question is from Brian Russo of Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Brian.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Just referencing slide 5 and the pie chart with capital recovery and earning on investment does that imply that you got a high level of confidence that you can earn your allowed ROEs or is there any sort of structural lag that we should incorporate in our outlooks? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think with the regulatory mechanisms we now have in place in Pennsylvania and Kentucky our ability to earn near the authorized levels is greater than it's ever been quite honestly.
And so I think the regulatory lag is minimal probably looking forward.
And I'd also point to the fact that in both Pennsylvania and Kentucky we're using forward test years which is the first time we've done that historically.
So I think those combined with the regulatory mechanisms that we have all would suggest that we should be able to earn near the authorized levels with pretty minimal regulatory lag.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> So you probably – so after the conclusion of the current pending Pennsylvania rate case and with the recent Kentucky rate case outcome do you think you could stay out for a few years given the mechanisms you have in place? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think in Kentucky probably not because number one we're going to have to comply with the Clean Power Plan as talked to earlier on the call which probably will drive some different decisions that are not incorporated in the plan today.
In Pennsylvania that potential depending on the outcome how strong the outcome is of the current rate case would be a possibility.
But until we get the outcome from the rate case it's kind of hard to tell at this point.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And just lastly can you quantify the lower amount of depreciation at the UK year-over-year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
We had indicated it was about $0.10 per share year-over-year.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> For the full year.
On a full-year basis.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Got it.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Soon we'll be asset realized.
I mean we are continuing to spend CapEx in the business and so there is higher depreciation resulting from our additional spend.
But just due to the engineering study that resulted in the asset realized that the amount of $0.10 per share year-on-year change.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And lastly – and forgive me if I missed this earlier – but what's the total potential upside of on an annual basis for performance incentive revenues in the UK? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We indicated what we have built into our plan at this point.
I believe we laid those numbers out on the last call.
And if you go to slide 9 in the deck you can see there for 2015 it's $125 million; 2016 it's $122 million to $130 million; in 2017 $80 million to $100 million; and 2018 $60 million to $90 million.
So the upper ends of those ranges would be kind of our expectation of kind of the upper end of the outperformance.
It's not necessarily the maximum but it's kind of our guesstimate if you will at this point or best estimate of the ranges that we will likely fall into.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No problem.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Okay.
Well thanks everyone for joining us today and appreciate the questions and look forward to speaking with you on the next earnings call.
Thank you operator as well.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the PPL Corporation Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions Please note that this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Joe Bergstein please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the PPL conference call on third quarter results and our general business outlook.
We are providing slides to this presentation on our website at www.pplweb.com.
Any statements made in this presentation about future operating results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
A discussion of the factors that could cause actual results or events to differ is contained in the appendix to this presentation and in the company's SEC filings.
We will refer to earnings from ongoing operations or ongoing earnings and non-GAAP measures on this call.
For reconciliations to the GAAP measures you should refer to the press release which has been posted on our website and has been filed with the SEC.
This time I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Spence PPL Chairman President and CEO.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Joe and good morning everyone.
We're pleased that you've joined us this morning.
With me on the call today are Vince Sorgi PPL's Chief Financial Officer and the Presidents of our U.S.
Utility businesses.
Also with the recent retirement of Rick Klingensmith the former President of PPL Global with us today is Robert Symons the Chief Executive of our U.K.
Utility Western Power Distribution or WPD.
Welcome to the call Robert.
Moving to slide 3 you'll see our agenda for today's discussion.
We'll begin with an overview of our third quarter and year-to-date earnings results.
We'll also address our 2015 earnings forecast which we are reaffirming today.
I'll provide an update to our earnings and dividend growth expectations through 2017 both of which we are increasing today.
And I'll provide a brief operational overview for our U.S.
utilities.
Then I'll turn the call over to Robert to review some new disclosures we are making this quarter to provide more transparency on our estimates for incentive revenues at WPD under the new real model.
Vince will then review our segment results and provide more detailed financial overview as always we'll leave time to answer your questions.
Before I jump into the earnings details however let me tell you briefly where we stand with three quarters of the year behind us.
Based on the solid year-to-date results our plans for about $10 billion in infrastructure investments through 2017 and higher expected earnings from our U.K.
operations we're now confident we can achieve 6% compound annual earnings growth through 2017.
We continue to execute well and we are confident in our growth plans.
The company had previously projected 4% to 6% earnings growth.
Our business plan is low risk and we are confident in our ability to execute the plan and deliver on our commitments.
Moving to slide four.
Today we announced third quarter 2015 reported earnings of $393 million or $0.58 a share a decrease from $497 million or $0.74 per share a year ago.
Year to date reported earnings were $283 million or $0.42 per share compared with $1.04 billion or $1.57 per share to the same period in 2014.
Reported earnings for the first nine months of 2015 reflect $915 million loss or a $1.36 per share from discontinued operations resulting primarily from the June 1 spin-off of our competitive Supply business.
Adjusting for special items third quarter 2015 earnings from ongoing operations were $0.51 per share up 16% from third quarter 2014 adjusted results.
Through the first nine months 2015 earnings from ongoing operations were $1.77 per share up 15% from a year ago.
Moving to slide five driven by the strong performance of our fully regulated portfolio today we are reaffirming our 2015 forecast range for earnings from ongoing operations of $2.15 per share to $2.25 per share.
If you've tracked us closely through the years as I know many of you have you know that we have a strong track record of not just meeting but exceeding earnings targets.
And as I indicated earlier in my remarks we are now confident we can achieve 6% compound annual earnings growth through 2017.
This increase is driven primarily by higher expected earnings from our regulated operations in the U.K.
driven primarily by higher expected incentive revenues and lower depreciation expense resulting from the change in depreciable lives.
Robert will discuss the details of the higher incentive revenues in his prepared remarks.
We now expect the U.K.
earnings growth to be 1% to 2% through 2017 previously projected to be flat.
And we expect 12% to 14% growth in domestic operations including our corporate services organization.
Vince will provide an update on our U.K.
earnings projections through 2016 in his prepared remarks.
Our overall earnings growth is fueled by about $3.5 billion per year of capital investments in our existing infrastructure and service territories combined with the constructive regulatory jurisdictions where we operate which results in over 80% of our CapEx earning a return within 12 months and approximately 76% in less than six months.
Regarding the dividend we expect minimal dividend growth again for 2016 as we strive to get the payout ratio down into the mid-60% range at which time we will target a 4% to 6% dividend growth rate more in line with our earnings growth expectations.
We currently expect to be in the targeted payout range by the end of 2016.
So our current expectation is that we will grow the dividend more meaningfully starting in 2017 but our current expectation for 2017 is at the low end of the 4 to 6% relative to the dividend.
We will expect to maintain at least that level of growth through 2017 but we will assess that when we get there.
Turning to the operational overview on slide six and beginning with the PPL Electric Utilities rate case on September 3 we announced the settlement agreement that would provide PPL Electric Utilities an additional $124 million in revenue through a rate increase to be effective January 1 2016.
The settlement will help fund additional reliability improvements as we continue to strengthen and modernize our Pennsylvania delivery network.
Earlier this month an administrative law judge from the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission recommended the Commission approve this settlement.
Action by the Commission is expected later this year.
The settlement is a black box settlement and does not specify an allowed return on equity.
The agreement highlights the constructive relationships we have in the jurisdictions where we operate and our ability to work with a variety of parties to secure results that deliver both competitive returns to shareowners and significant benefits to customers.
It's the second such settlement we've announced this year.
Last quarter we highlighted the Kentucky Public Service Commission's approval of rate increases for our Kentucky Utilities following a successful settlement in those proceedings.
In both the Pennsylvania and Kentucky jurisdictions we utilized forward test years which further assists in our ability to reduce regulatory lag.
Also in September the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission unanimously approved PPL Electric Utilities' request to invest $450 million in new more advanced meters for its 1.4 million customers.
The company plans to replace its existing meters between 2017 and 2019 to provide expanded benefits to customers and to comply with state mandated regulations on metering technology.
Costs will be recovered with little to no regulatory lag through a special rider.
The replacement is expected to increase rate base by about $330 million.
In Pennsylvania I'd also like to mention that PPL Electric Utilities received another J.D.
Power Award for residential customer satisfaction.
The company ranked highest among large electric utilities in the Eastern United States.
It is the fourth year in a row that the PPL Electric Utilities earned the distinction and the 12th overall in that category.
The company has now won 11 J.D.
Power Awards for business customer satisfaction as well.
Lastly turning to slide seven before I move to Kentucky PPL Electric Utilities took an important step on its proposal to construct a major new transmission line called Project Compass.
It's designed to provide significant benefits for electricity consumers in the Northeast.
PPL Electric Utilities has filed an interconnection request with the New York Independent System Operator to build a 95-mile transmission line between Blakely Pennsylvania and Ramapo New York.
The projected capital cost is expected to be $500 million to $600 million.
This first section or segment is designed to help make the electric grid more reliable and secure for customers throughout the region and provide substantial savings for New York consumers.
If our interconnection request is approved by the New York ISO additional approvals for this segment will be needed from the Pennsylvania PUC the New York Public Service Commission PJM and several other agencies.
PPL Electric Utilities has extensive experience as you know in planning and building regional transmission lines.
Just this past spring we energized the Susquehanna-Roseland transmission line which involved the planning approval and construction of 101 miles of a 500-kV transmission line.
On the Susquehanna-Roseland project we demonstrated our ability to cooperate with multiple state and regulatory government agencies and to partner with a neighboring utility which built an additional 50 miles of transmission line in New Jersey as part of that project.
Expenditures for Project Compass are not included in our current capital projections.
Our proposal currently calls for the first segment to be built and placed in service by 2023.
While the first segment can stand alone as a valuable grid improvement we continue to evaluate and refine the overall plan for the rest of Project Compass.
As currently envisioned and based on preliminary estimates Project Compass in its entirely would extend about 475 miles from Western Pennsylvania into Southeastern New York at an estimated cost of $3 billion to $4 billion.
If you turn to slide eight you will see the portion of the transmission line that represents the first segment between Blakely Pennsylvania and Ramapo New York.
Shifting south to Kentucky we retired the final two generating units at our Green River station on September 30.
This marks the completion of our plan to retire 800 megawatts of coal-fired generation in Kentucky.
We also continue to analyze the potential impact that the Clean Power Plan could have on our Kentucky operations.
The precise impact is difficult to pin down at this point.
The final rule is just published last Friday October 23 and the final impact of the rule will not be known until the state implementation plan or the state's specific federal implementation plan has been developed.
The final rule is already being legally challenged so this could have an impact as well.
In the end we will develop a plan for our facilities in collaboration with the Kentucky Public Service Commission and the state Energy and Environment Cabinet.
Any investment required to comply with the Clean Power Plan would be incremental to our current CapEx plan.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Robert Symons CEO of our U.K.
Operations.
He will walk us through our new disclosures on incentive revenues under RIIO-ED1.
Robert? Western Power Distribution PPL Corp.</strong> Many thanks Bill and good morning.
We've received several inquiries as to how the U.K.
is performing against the tougher incentive targets set by Ofgem under RIIO-ED1.
Moving to slide 10 as Bill mentioned earlier we are pleased to be providing new disclosures to review our current performance.
But before we get into the performance details I would like to provide some background on the incentive framework.
WPD has a long history of operational excellence.
And we expect that to continue into RIIO-ED1.
Our ability to execute on our plans and achieve incentive revenue has been key to our financial performance.
And once again WPD is on-track to outperform its Ofgem targets in the 2015/2016 regulatory year.
And WPD now expects to earn total incentive revenues that exceed prior estimates for 2017 and 2018.
Our original plan assume between $80 million and $100 million for 2017 and between $60 million and $90 million for 2018.
Based on our performance to-date we are raising guidance estimates for the 2017 calendar year to $90 million to $110 million and $75 million to $105 million for 2018.
One of the real benefits of being fast tracked through price control review process is that we've had more time to ensure we were in a strong position to deliver the output included in the business plan submitted to Ofgem.
For example in advance to the RIIO-ED1 period we adjusted one of our operational targets to less than 12 hours for supply restoration down from 18 hours to align our performance with the new guaranteed standards in RIIO-ED1.
The fast-track award of about $43 million per year during RIIO-ED1 period along with our ability to an incentive revenues are two very strong reasons that the UK regulatory model is considered a premium jurisdiction.
Turning to slide 11 the primary schemes that contribute to incentive revenues include the interruption incentive schemes and the broad measure of customer satisfaction.
Interruption incentive schemes include customer interruptions and customer minutes lost.
Both of these schemes are designed to incentivize the DNOs to invest and operate their networks to manage and reduce both the frequency and the duration of power outages.
The targets under RIIO-ED1 are specified in our licenses and become slightly more demanding each year.
On this slide you will find results for customer minutes lost on the top-left of the slide and customer interruptions on the top-right.
Customer minutes lost measures the cumulative amount of minutes customers are without electricity.
In this chart we are reporting the cumulative average performance of all four of our DNOs.
The line in purple is the Ofgem target and the dotted line is the projected result with the vertical line showing the maximum reward or penalties.
Customer interruption measures the cumulative amount of interruptions in the customers electricity supply per hundred customers.
The chart is using the same basis for reporting an average of all four DNOs however this chart represents customer interruptions for 100 customers.
You will see for the first six months under RIIO-ED1 WPD is trending towards exceeding the annual targets for customer minutes lost and customer interruptions.
These incentive revenues while earned during the 2015/2016 regulatory year will be received in the 2017/2018 regulatory year.
So now turning to slide 12.
In addition to the interruption incentive schemes the second scheme the broad measure of customer satisfaction measures performance against customer satisfaction.
Each month Ofgem surveys customer satisfaction for services provided by the DNOs.
On a scale from 1 to 10 this chart provides results against the targets Ofgem has established for customers experiencing interruptions requesting a new connection or making a general inquiry.
This chart shows WPD's performance through September 2015 for each DNO compared to all other DNOs combined and demonstrates our excellent customer service.
While we have only been performing under RIIO for six months as I mentioned earlier the benefit of being fast-track afforded us the opportunity to begin to plan our approach to delivering outputs.
As we continue to execute on those plans we are on track to meet or exceed the new targets.
We will continue to provide updates to these slides each quarter.
And now Vince will walk you through a more detailed look at segment earnings.
Thank you Robert and good morning everyone.
Let's move to slide 14 for a review of segment earnings.
Our third quarter earnings from ongoing operations increased over last year by $0.07 per share driven primarily by higher earnings from the Kentucky Regulated segment and the UK Regulated segment and lower cost in corporate and other resulting from the corporate restructuring.
Let's briefly discuss domestic weather for the third quarter and year-to-date compared to last year and also compared to our 2015 forecast.
Overall domestic weather was slightly favorable for the quarter and flat year to date compared to the same periods last year.
However compared to our 2015 forecast weather had a positive $0.03 impact year-to-date and was flat for the third quarter.
Let's move to a more detailed review of the third quarter segment earnings drivers starting with the Pennsylvania results on slide 15.
Our Pennsylvania Regulated segment earnings for the third quarter were flat compared with a year ago.
This result was due to higher margins from additional transmission investments and returns on distribution improvement capital investments offset by higher O&amp;M expenses and higher depreciation due to asset additions.
Moving to slide 16 our Kentucky Regulated segment earned $0.16 per share in the third quarter of 2015 a $0.04 increase compared to a year ago.
This result was due to higher gross margins from electric and gas base rate increases effective July 1 of this year returns on additional environmental capital investments and higher volumes due to inclement weather.
Moving to slide 17 our UK Regulated segment earned $0.29 per share in the third quarter of 2015 a $0.01 improvement compared to the same period last year.
This increase was due to lower income taxes primarily from lower U.S.
taxes on dividends in 2015 compared to 2014 and lower depreciation expense from the asset life extension we discussed earlier this year partially offset by increased depreciation from asset additions.
These increases were partially offset by lower utility revenues as we transitioned to RIIO-ED1 on April 1 of this year partially offset by higher volumes and higher miscellaneous revenues.
Moving to slide 18 on this slide we provide an update to our GBP hedging status for 2015 2016 2017 including sensitivities for a $0.05 and $0.10 downward movement in the exchange rate compared to our budgeted rate of $1.60.
We continue to be fully hedged for the remainder of 2015 at an average rate of $1.54.
For 2016 and 2017 the hedge percentages are off the higher expected U.K.
earnings that Bill discussed.
Thus our 2016 hedge ratio came down a little.
For 2017 we continued to layer on hedges during the quarter and have increased our hedge percentage from 40% at the end of the second quarter to 66% today at an average rate of $1.60.
You can see from the sensitivity table that there is no exposure for the remainder of 2015 minimal exposure in 2016 and 2017 if the average hedge rate on our open positions is $1.55.
These FX sensitivities do not factor in the potential positive effects from restriking existing hedges which as you know we've been successfully doing throughout the year.
Also on this slide we show our RPI sensitivity which has been updated as well.
As we've discussed previously under the RIIO model our revenues for the 2015/2016 regulatory year were set using a 2.6% inflation rate and our 2017/2018 revenues will reflect a true-up for the actual inflation rate for the 2015/2016 period.
We're now incorporating a forecasted RPI rate of 1.6% in our current planning assumptions compared to the 2.6% that we were previously using.
This 1% difference results in a reduction to 2017/2018 allowed revenue and affects our 2017 calendar revenue by approximately $0.03 per share.
The lower RPI rate and the revenue giveback are fully reflected in our assumptions that drive the 6% EPS growth through 2017.
As a result the 2017 RPI sensitivity for 0.5% downward movement in the 2015/2016 RPI is now off the current forecast of 1.6%.
Looking ahead to November of this year our 2016/2017 and 2017/2018 tariffs will be based on the forecasted RPI at that time.
As you can see on the slide the current RPI forecasts for 2016/2017 is 2.8% and for 2017/2018 it's 3.1% both of which are in line with the rates used in the forecast to hit the 6% earnings growth.
Before turning the call back to Bill I wanted to provide an update on our projected U.K.
earnings through 2016.
As you can see on slide 19 we have increased our earnings projections for 2015 and 2016 from a midpoint in the $1.40 per share range to a mid-point in the $1.43 per share range.
The increase for 2015 is primarily driven by the lower depreciation expense from the asset life extension; the increase in 2016 is a combination of higher incentive revenues and lower depreciation.
We still expect a relatively flat earnings trajectory in the U.K.
through 2017.
However it is now off of the higher 2015 year-end forecast of $1.43 per share.
That concludes my prepared remarks and I'll turn the call back over to Bill.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Vince.
PPL continues to be a very compelling investment opportunity within our sector with competitive earnings growth rate which we just guided to 6% through 2017 combined with better than average dividend yield at about 4.5% and the ability to continue to grow that dividend we believe we can deliver a top quartile total shareowner return over the next three years.
And I believe most importantly that this is all supported by a low risk business plan.
With that operator let's open the call to questions please.
[Operator Instruction] The first question comes from Shah Pourreza of Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
I appreciate the new disclosures around the Compass Project.
So how should we think about the remaining miles? Are you looking to potentially segment the rest? And then is there an opportunity to potentially JV with some of the neighboring utilities to smooth out the process? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
I think in both cases the answer would be yes.
So there's an ability to continue to segment the line as well as partnering with adjacent or utilities that the project goes through their service territory.
So I think in both cases we would look to do that.
Got it.
And then just on the updated guidance around the growth of 6%.
Should we sort of think about that as a new midpoint of a new range or is this sort of you being able to sort of achieve that top end of the prior plan? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> This is really our ability to achieve the top end of the plan for this current period the 2015 through 2017 period and then we will assess and report out on the fourth quarter call our expectations for how that growth rate will continue past 2017.
Got it.
And then just one last question under ED1 the updated disclosures which was obviously very helpful.
Is this something we can expect an update on a quarterly basis as you report earnings? And is this sort of the trough earnings to that segment sort of being shifted a little bit into 2017 and potentially earlier than that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well two things one is we will continue to update on a quarterly basis where we stand relative to those incentive targets.
We previously had noted that the U.K.
business was expected to be flat from an earnings per share basis.
With the new disclosures and now six months behind us in terms of how well we feel about our capability to earn the incentive revenue we are now comfortable saying that the UK earnings will be slightly positive 1% to 2% type growth rate off of the flat.
So we are now looking at that 1% to 2% annual growth rate.
Excellent.
Congrats on these results.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank very much.
Our next question comes from Julien Dumoulin-Smith of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Can you hear me? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Julien yes.
So first quick question if you can elaborate a little bit on the latest positive development in the UK? Could you perhaps give us a little bit of a sense of how much of that is driven by cost savings if you will specifically TotEx? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
The increase in earnings that we are announcing today from the U.K.
is primarily driven by the increase in the incentive revenues that we now expect to earn through the period.
There really are some other moving parts the biggest of which is probably the depreciable change that we had in the lives of the assets and that's in the short-term driving some cost savings there.
From a TotEx perspective maybe Robert you could indicate where we are relative to the filed (29:26) business plan? Western Power Distribution PPL Corp.</span></strong> Thanks Bill.
Yeah in terms of TotEx basically we are on target to deliver the plan.
There are various variables which obviously influence that connections and other such things but basically we are on plan.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Got it.
All right.
Excellent.
And then perhaps to boot with that if you will.
Where do you stand with respect to solar DG interconnections into the your U.K.
system? And how is that impacting the TotEx expectations in the near-term as well as into the mid-period review? And do you expect to have a mid-cycle review potentially to reflect more solar interconnections? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Let me ask Robert to comment but before he does just to put a little perspective on this.
There has been a significant increase in request for connections for distributed generation in the U.K.
predominantly driven by some very substantial feed in tariffs that have encouraged a lot of connections.
My understanding is the feed in tariffs are coming to an end are being substantially reduced such that the demand for distributed generation has dropped off very significantly.
Having said that there is a lot of pent-up demand and request on the system and it kind of depends on which DNO you look at.
I think of the DNOs that we operate the four DNOs the one DNO where we're seeing the most significant request has really been in the Southwest.
So with that bit of background Robert do you want to provide a little bit more color please? Western Power Distribution PPL Corp.</span></strong> Yes just to give you some idea of scale the current subsidy on photovoltaic is about £0.06 per unit.
That's going down.
There's a consultation document out and potentially that will go down to about £0.01 per unit.
So basically it's the FIT tariffs which actually drive demand.
In terms of its impact on TotEx developers have to pay the cost of reinforcement upfront and it's only the bit that possibly benefits us in other ways but it's actually funded out of the TotEx part.
So that 95% of the cost of actually putting in or reinforcing the network in order to connect large photovoltaics is actually met by the developer themselves.
So I don't see it as a real big impact on TotEx.
I think if there was a change in government policy as to how this stuff was funded then that would be the trigger that would trigger a midterm review if it was the case that companies had to make a larger contribution towards that investment.
But given the current situation I can't really see that happening.
Got it.
But just to clarify here is this a CapEx opportunity in your mind down the line and in the near-term is that one of the reasons that it prevents you from outpacing the current plan in the UK? Just to be very clear about it.
Western Power Distribution PPL Corp.</span></strong> Well we work under a series of rules Julien and the rule say that there is no – the current rule say there's no investment ahead of need.
So you can't build a line if you like before it's actually required.
So that investment opportunity really isn't there under the current rules.
And as I stated before I think its impact on reinforcement expenditure detailed in the business plan is relatively small currently.
Got it.
Excellent.
Just the last little detail I'd be curious you all have a good track record in the UK what are your thoughts to expanding the UK footprint specifically transmission is opening up for competitive bid obviously we talk a lot about that domestically just curious to get your initial thoughts.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah at the moment Julien we would not look to expand into transmission.
I think as Robert said we are great at what we do and we want to stick to what we know best and so that's our current plan.
Great.
Well congratulations again.
Good results.
Keep going.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you very much.
The next question comes from Dan Eggers of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Dan.
Just going back to the UK incentive revenues and the updates there do I take that the new ranges for the next couple of years those are going to be the high end of what you can earn based on the formulas in the UK because you're performing at the upper bounds of what they're allowing for? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We're not projecting to be at the very top of the band but based on the projection – you know we have a range there.
So we're near that – I would say we are in the upper end of the band but there is probably still a little bit more room to the extent we outperform even more than we are currently projecting.
Yeah Dan.
This is Vince.
I would say the midpoint of those ranges would reflect kind of current level of performance so if WPD is able to continue to improve that would push us probably to the high-end of those bands.
But there's also risk that something bumps in the night and so we took that into account as well.
But it's based on current level of performance.
So effectively since the last update you guys have moved your performance from the old midpoint to the high end of the old band.
Is this basically what's happening into the (35:17) either way.
Okay.
And then just kind of given the shape of when you go from the old RIIO to the new RIIO the 2019 opportunity and I know this is far out but just so we can kind of thinking about the shape of the outlook to the incentive revenue pool does that shrink when you get out to 2019 given the fast-track design or does that stay about the same level which you can keep competing for the same amount of revenue contribution? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Robert why don't you take that? Western Power Distribution PPL Corp.</span></strong> The pool stays the same the incentive mechanism stays the same the targets get slightly more difficult year-on-year and that varies between which of the full businesses you were talking about but those sort of things have been built into sort of information that Vince chooses.
Okay.
So we don't have a contraction in that size.
There is still opportunity for you guys to continue and be able to reach the top level in the future? Western Power Distribution PPL Corp.</span></strong> Yes you got it exactly right.
The opportunity still remains the same albeit the targets get slightly more difficult as time goes on.
But one would hope that also investment and (36:24) investment in line and all the rest of it.
Automation schemes will actually produce some benefit later on.
Okay.
Very good.
I got that.
And then just on Compass real quick.
I know it's ways off but does this get caught up in this Order 1000 workout because it's an economic line instead of a reliability line? Do you get more competition and people prospectively bid away the cost of capital? Or how do you think you're going to be able to reserve some sort of competitive advantage in this line? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll let Greg take that question.
PPL Electric Utilities PPL Corp.</span></strong> Yes.
So the way this is set up currently under New York law this would not be considered a FERC 1000 Project so we are going and making interconnection requests and will be filing our Article VII now.
So if the approval path goes down that path there may be an opportunity for competition but the probability is little bit lower.
If the PSC opens up economic window next year then there could be competition so we'll see how it plays out.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think relative to the competitive nature of this obviously just having completed a very major line essentially in the same region I think our capability to be very competitive should we get to that point should be strong.
Okay.
Very good.
Think you guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Thanks Dan.
The next question comes from Mike Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Congrats on a good quarter and outlook.
I don't know if this is Bill or Vince question or both when you think about just companywide what's the O&amp;M assumption that's embedded in your guidance growth rate the kind of 6% off of 2014? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure Thanks for the question Michael.
I'll let Vince take that one.
Sure.
So in general coming – so obviously you know we've reduced O&amp;M quite significantly coming out of the spin with the corporate restructuring efforts where we're targeting about $75 million and we are comfortable that we've achieved that.
However we do continue to look at the corporate services organization as well as just operations between PA and Kentucky so see if there is opportunities for continued efficiency there domestically.
WPD is already very efficient.
And so we just continue to look at that and we built in about another $0.02 worth of opportunity through 2017 in achieving the 6% growth rate.
Got it.
Okay.
And can you just give us the puts and takes? I mean I know the Pennsylvania rate increase I know the environmental cost recovery rider in Kentucky.
But your U.S.
utility growth rate puts you kind of well above the norm for traditional utilities.
Can you talk about some of the other drivers of that besides those two items I referenced? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think a key one would be transmission.
Our transmission is growing at a compound rate of 17% so that's a significant driver.
In terms of the outcomes that you mentioned on the rate cases I think they were fair outcomes not terribly inconsistent with our planning assumptions.
I think as we continue to refine our cost structure as Vince said both at the corporate level as well as at the utility level that's going to drive some upside or some improvement there and that does help the domestic utility growth rate.
But I think it's probably worth mentioning that we're not really changing the domestic utility growth rate from the utilities.
What we've really changed and up the overall is the corporate services where we're seeing lower costs.
So the lower costs in the corporate services that $0.02 that Vince mentioned is really what's moving the domestic utilities growth rates up or everything is combined together to get us to the 6%.
Got it.
Last question in the UK can you remind us the calendar year expected incentive revenue for 2015 and 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The calendar year so it's an April 1 start and then it goes on to the March – the end of March of the following year and that in terms of the dollars is $130 million.
You wanted 2015 and 2016 Michael? Yeah.
I'm just trying to compare what you have on slide 10 to what you are expecting for 2015 2016 and I think what you have in slide 10 is calendar year not the April to March year? That is correct.
So 2015 we had $120 million and about $125 million $126 million for 2016.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
Much appreciated.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
The next question comes from Steve Fleishman of Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Hi good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Steve.
Hey Bill.
Just want to clarify some of the UK changes where it seems like that's where the guidance uplift is.
So the incentive benefit which you've given it looks like it's about $0.01 in 2017 based on the higher on a per share $10 million or $15 million? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Okay.
And then you did change your RPI guidance you said down $0.03? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Correct we did flex it down.
In the guidance right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
In the guidance.
So is then all the rest of the benefit depreciation benefit or some kind of O&amp;M to or what's...? Year so Steven I would say the 6% as we were going through the planning – or the $0.06 as we were going through the planning process we didn't bake up until now all of that $0.06 of depreciation upside through 2017 because of the risks around RPI and FX.
I would say that the RPI forecast has been holding strong in that 3% range.
So we're at 2.8% for 2016 and 3.1% for 2017 so we are feeling pretty good.
The exposure there is really only another month because once that gets set next month that's really what it will drive for the next two years.
So we feel comfortable with that exposure.
And then as we continue to layer on the hedges I think we are extremely comfortable that we can manage the FX exposure and hedge that up to $1.60 through at least 2017.
So as our comfort level on both of those risk factors improved we were able to put more of this $0.06 upside kind of into the base forecast.
So that $0.06 has been there all along but we were using it as a risk mitigant up until now.
Got it.
Okay.
So that depreciation benefit you had at the beginning of the year there's not like a new one on top of that.
That's just you're able to see the full benefit of that because you've limited some of the pressures that might been there.
Correct.
Got it.
Got it.
Perfect.
Okay.
That was really it.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks Steve.
Your next question comes from Gregg Orrill of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes thank you.
Can you talk about a little bit about the funding needs for the CapEx plan? You have almost $1 billion of cash on the balance sheet.
Would one of the strategies be to work that cash balance down? Or how are you thinking about that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure that would be the plan.
We work that down.
Vince you can probably speak more specifically to exactly how we are planning to fund the CapEx plan.
Sure.
So slide 26 in the appendix Gregg really details that.
It's the same slide that we went through last quarter in terms of funding the growth.
So in the UK I'll just reiterate that the UK business is fully self funding variable with their cash from operations and their ability to borrow in country and maintain their 80% to 85% debt to rev ratios.
They are able to basically self fund (45:06) dividends about $400 million of cash a year back to the state.
We take that $400 million add it to our cash from operations fund our maintenance capital and we still think we'll have even after we pay the dividend about $250 million and over say the next three years to five years that will continue to grow as the domestic cash from ops grows.
So that $250 million will drive either dividend growth that Bill talked about or CapEx growth and then we'll use debt and a little bit of equity.
We still have the $200 million of maxed equity issuances in the plan.
Everything else would be funded with debt and we are able to do that and maintain our solid investment-grade credit ratings.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks Vince.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
The next question comes from Neel Mitra of Tudor Pickering.
Please go ahead.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Thanks for updating the RPI assumption.
My question is when is the next time you will be evaluated for? I guess for the 2016/2017 planning years? So when would the 2.8% be evaluated versus what's actually happening? And would that impact mainly 2018 earnings if there was a reset? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah the first impact would be showing up in 2018 and 2019 period.
It's the regulatory year.
So that is correct.
And in terms of the next end of the period I guess when would that be Vince in terms of the measurements? Yeah.
I mean it's the same schedule as the 2015/2016 so we are truing up the 2.6% to the 1.6% and that giveback shows up two years later two regulatory years later so in the 2017/2018 timeframe.
So if 2016/2017 comes in on an actual basis less than the 2.8% that would be given back in 2018/2019.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
But also if it comes in higher we will receive additional revenues in 2018/2019 so it's not one way.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Right right.
And then looking at the percent hedged for the currency at 66% and you are assuming $1.60 for the exchange rate do you have any more flexibility to maybe lower 2015 hedges to benefit 2017 if the exchange rate doesn't go your way? Yeah.
So we are pretty much done with our 2015 hedges.
However our 2016 hedges are in the money as well and there certainly could be an opportunity to re-strike our 2016 hedges and move that value into 2017 and potentially even a little bit in 2018.
I would say we probably have $0.03 or $0.04 of opportunity to do that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then directionally can you guys provide where you are in terms of the exchange rate hedges for 2018 at this point? So we are currently 0% hedged for 2018.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're welcome.
And I think we're out of time Joe.
Yeah I think there is no more questions in the queue.
So go ahead Bill.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Okay.
Great.
Well thanks everyone for participating on today's call.
I know several members of our senior management team and myself will be attending the EEI Financial Conference coming up in November so we look forward to seeing everyone there.
Thanks.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the PPL Corporation Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Joe Bergstein Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the PPL conference call on fourth quarter and year-end 2015 results and our general business outlook.
We are providing slides of this presentation on our website at www.pplweb.com.
Any statements made in this presentation that our future operation results or other future events are forward-looking statements under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
A discussion of factors that could cause actual results or events to differ is contained in the appendix to this presentation and in the company's SEC filing.
We will refer to earnings from ongoing operations or ongoing earnings are non-GAAP measure on this call.
For a reconciliation to the GAAP measure you should refer to the press release which has been posted on our website and has been filed with the SEC.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Spence PLL's Chairman President and CEO.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Joe and good morning everyone.
We're very pleased that you could join us.
With me on the call today are Vince Sorgi PPL's Chief Financial Officer as well as the Presidents of our U.S.
and UK utility businesses.
Moving to slide three our agenda this morning starts with an overview of our 2015 earnings results an operational overview and a discussion of our 2016 earnings forecast and our priorities for this year.
After my remarks Vince will review our segment financials and provide a more detailed financial overview.
Before I go any further however let me simply say that 2015 was a remarkable year for PPL.
We successfully spun off our competitive generation business.
In doing so we better positioned PPL for future growth and capped our strategic transformation into a purely regulated utility business.
We delivered more than $3 billion in infrastructure improvements investments that are driving earnings growth and improving service to our 10 million customers.
We secured favorable outcomes in our Kentucky and Pennsylvania rate cases successfully transitioning to RIIO-ED1 in the UK; we increased our dividend for the 13th time in 14 years; and we've delivered strong earnings results.
Moreover our stock outperformed our peers the UTY and the S&amp;P 500 Utilities Index.
PPL's total shareowner return of 6.2% on the year was higher than any other utility in the UTY.
All were significant accomplishments during a time of significant change for our company and our industry.
Today we're announcing a plan to achieve compound annual earnings growth of 5% to 6% through 2018 off of our 2014 adjusted EPS of $2.03 per share.
The continued excellent performance of our utilities gives us confidence in our ability to deliver competitive earnings growth and a strong dividend.
Turning to slide four.
Today we announced 2015 reported earnings of $1.01 per share compared with $2.61 per share in 2014.
Our 2015 results reflect the loss from discontinued operations of $921 million or $1.36 per share resulting primarily from the June 1 spin-off of our competitive supply business.
Adjusting for special items our 2015 earnings from ongoing operations were $2.21 per share.
That's an increase of 9% from 2014 adjusted results of $2.03 per share.
For the fourth quarter of 2015 reported earnings were $0.59 per share compared with $1.04 per share a year ago.
Earnings per share from ongoing operations were $0.43 in the fourth quarter compared with $0.49 a year ago.
The 9% or $140 million year-over-year improvement in earnings from ongoing operations was driven primarily by the benefits of our corporate restructuring lower income taxes and depreciation expense in the UK higher returns on capital investments and a mid-year Kentucky rate increases.
Vince will provide more details on segment results in his remarks.
Let's move on to slide five for an update on our utility operations.
On November 19 the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission approved a rate increase for PPL Electric Utilities.
The action followed a settlement agreement that we reached with parties to our rate case.
The increase which took effect January 1 will provide an additional $124 million in revenue and help fund additional liability improvements as we continue to strengthen and modernize our Pennsylvania delivery network.
This settlement was a black box settlement and does not specify an allowed return on equity.
Turning to Kentucky; Louisville Gas and Electric and Kentucky Utilities filed environmental compliance and cost recovery plans with the Kentucky Public Service Commission on January 29.
The application seek approval an environmental cost recovery rate treatment for $1 billion in upcoming environmental improvement projects.
These projects will ensure compliance with the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency's new coal combustion residuals rule that became effective last year.
The projects will involve capping and closing remaining ash ponds at our coal-fired power plants building process-water facilities and completing the second phase of the dry storage landfill project at our E.W.
Brown Generating Station.
We expect to begin these investments in these environmental improvements in 2016 and they will continue through 2023.
Looking to the UK WPD wrapped up the DPCR5 price control period March 31 2015.
WPD was the top performer over the period and earned $478 million by outperforming its incentive targets.
We were consistently the best performer for customer service in all categories: customer satisfaction customer complaints and stakeholder engagement.
During the price control period WPD went through a major transformation applying two lower performing Midlands network operations in 2011 and very quickly improved their performance which helped drive the significant incentive revenues earned under DPCR5.
Turning to the new RIIO-ED1 price control period WPD continues to outperform its 2015 to 2016 performance targets and is on pace to be near the maximum incentive reward for customer minutes lost and customer interruptions.
In addition we're on pace to be near or at the maximum reward levels for customer satisfaction.
During our last call we raised our guidance estimates for the incentive revenues we expect to earn for the calendar years 2017 and 2018.
Based on our continued strong performance to-date we expect incentive revenues for 2016 to be at the high-end of our $120 million to $130 million range.
As you may recall incentives for the 2015-2016 regulatory year will be received in revenues beginning in the 2017-2018 regulatory year as there is a two-year lag.
Details on WPD's performance and incentives are included in today's Appendix.
Turning to slide six our 2016 earnings forecast is $2.25 to $2.45 per share.
The midpoint of this range $2.35 per share represents growth of 6.3% compared to our 2015 earnings from ongoing operations of $2.21 per share.
As I highlighted in my opening remarks the continued excellent performance of our utility operations and the organic growth from planned and approved infrastructure investments give us great confidence in our ability to achieve compound annual growth in earnings of 5% to 6% through 2018 again off of our 2014 adjusted EPS of $2.03 per share.
We expect EPS growth of 11% to 13% through 2018 from our U.S.
operations with 1% to 3% growth expected in the UK.
Vince will cover this in more detail during his remarks.
Turning to slide seven I'm also pleased to announce our board approved an increase in our common stock dividend raising it from $1.51 to $1.52 per share on an annualized basis.
This marks PPL's 14th dividend increase in 15 years.
This is consistent with our prior guidance of a modest dividend increase in 2016 as we work our way into the mid-60% payout range.
We expect to grow the dividend more meaningfully beginning in 2017 at which time we will target in the 4% range.
Now let's move to slide eight and highlight some of PPL's objectives in 2016.
A primary objective of ours is executing on our planned capital investment program of $3.5 billion.
This includes expenditures to strengthen transmission and distribution networks and to make continued environmental improvements in Kentucky.
In Pennsylvania we're focused on advancing Project Compass which is designed to provide significant benefits for electricity consumers in the Northeast.
In October we filed an interconnection request with the New York ISO to build the first segment of Project Compass a 95-mile transmission line between Blakely PA and Ramapo New York.
We expect to start the next step in the approvals in the first quarter of 2016 New York's Article VII application process which is a full siting and needs application.
We're also focused on completing our Northeast Pocono Transmission Line a $350 million improvement project that includes 70 miles of new transmission lines three new substations as well as additional improvements.
We expect to conclude that project this May which is about a year ahead of our original schedule.
In Kentucky our major focus will be approval of compliance plans and cost recovery for the environmental construction projects that I highlighted earlier.
Another key objective is to work with the State of Kentucky to address the Clean Power Plan in the best interests of our customers and our shareowners.
In the UK our team is focused on continued regulatory performance and adding to our long history of operational excellence.
We'll also look to continue to hedge our 2018 British pound currency exposure beyond the 20% that we've been able to hedge to-date at or near our budgeted rate of $1.60 per pound.
We built some capacity in our business plan to further hedge 2018 and at the current spot rate for the GBP – the pound of about $1.46 we feel confident that we will be able to achieve our stated earnings growth rate through 2018.
Turning to slide nine we expect infrastructure investment to continue to drive rate base and EPS growth in the coming years.
We plan to invest nearly $10 million from 2016 through 2018 to modernize and strengthen our transmission and distribution systems and to address environmental regulations in Kentucky.
Constructive rate mechanisms in the premier jurisdictions where we operate allow near real-time recovery of much of that investment.
More than 80% of our regulated capital expenditures are subject to minimal or no regulatory lag.
Based on planned infrastructure spending we expect our rate base to grow by $4.3 billion from 2015 to 2018.
We expect compound annual EPS growth through 2018 of 5% to 6% above adjusted 2014 earnings from ongoing operations of $2.03 per share.
As you know prior to the year-end 2015 passage of the PATH Act by Congress extended 50% bonus depreciation from 2015 through 2017 with a phase-out reduction in bonus to 40% in 2018 and 30% in 2019 with 0% thereafter.
The impact of the bonus depreciation extensions are factored into our earnings projections.
Vince will speak more about this in just a bit.
We're confident we will be able to achieve this growth rate given our low-risk business plan the premium jurisdictions in which we operate and our demonstrated ability to manage our foreign currency exposure in the UK.
I look forward to your questions after we hear some additional earnings details from Vince Sorgi.
Vince.
Thank you Bill and good morning everyone.
Let's move to slide eleven for a review of segment earnings.
Full-year 2015 earnings from ongoing operations increased over the prior year from 2014 adjusted earnings of $2.03 per share to $2.21 per share slightly ahead of the midpoint of our earnings guidance range.
The main drivers of growth were higher earnings in the UK Regulated and Kentucky Regulated segments as well as lower costs in Corporate And Other partially offset by lower earnings from the Pennsylvania Regulated segment.
The favorable $0.10 in Corporate And Other is primarily driven by the corporate restructuring efforts.
Before I get into the segment details let's briefly discuss the fourth quarter results as well as domestic weather for the year compared to the prior year and compared to our 2015 budget.
Our fourth quarter earnings from ongoing operations decreased over last year by $0.06 per share driven primarily by lower earnings from the U.K.
Regulated segment as a result of transitioning to the RIIO-ED1 regulatory period.
Pennsylvania Regulated and Kentucky Regulated segments were both slightly negative this year versus last reflecting the impact of unfavorable weather.
And Corporate And Other was better this year resulting from the corporate restructuring.
Overall domestic weather was flat compared to the prior year and had a positive impact compared to budget by about $0.02.
Favorable weather for the first nine months of the year was partially offset by the warmer weather experienced primarily in December.
Let's move to a more detailed review of the 2015 segment earnings drivers starting with the Pennsylvania results on slide 12.
Our 4Pennsylvania Regulated segment earned $0.37 per share in 2015 a $0.03 decrease compared to 2014.
This decrease was due to higher O&amp;M expenses as a result of higher service company allocations due to the spin-off of the supply business and also our strong performance throughout the year provided us the opportunity to take advantage of additional spending opportunities focused primarily on improving grid reliability which should benefit future periods.
Depreciation was higher due to asset additions and we had higher financing costs related to prior year debt issuances.
Partially offsetting these negative factors were higher margins from additional transmission investments and returns on distribution improvement capital investments and lower taxes primarily due to the settlement of a 2011 gross receipts tax audit resulting in a $0.02 benefit this year.
Moving to slide 13.
Our Kentucky Regulated segment earned $0.51 per share in 2015 a $0.04 increase from 2014.
This increase was due to higher gross margins which is the net effect of electric and gas base rate increases effective July 1 2015 and returns on additional environmental capital investments partially offset by lower volumes due to warmer weather in November and December of this year compared to the prior year and lower industrial sales.
And while the first quarter was colder than average it was not as cold as the polar vortex-driven weather in 2014.
These net positive results were partially offset by higher O&amp;M expenses including costs associated with the retirement of the Cane Run coal-fired facility of $0.02 and higher financing costs related to the September 2015 debt issuances.
Moving to slide 14.
Our U.K.
Regulated segment earned $1.44 per share in 2015 a $0.07 improvement compared to 2014.
This increase was due to lower U.S.
income taxes primarily from lower taxes on dividends in 2015 compared to 2014 and lower UK income taxes resulting from a lower effective tax rate in the UK due to a reduction in the statutory tax rate.
Lower depreciation expense from the asset life extension we discussed earlier this year also contributed to the improvement which was partially offset by increased depreciation from asset additions.
These increases were partially offset by lower gross margin as we transitioned to RIIO-ED1 on April 1 of this year partially offset by the April 1 2014 price increases and higher O&amp;M expenses.
Before we move to the next slide I wanted to mention that similar to last year we will provide you unaudited consolidated financial information for PPL Global LLC for 2015.
We expect to furnish those statements separately in an 8-K to be filed at the time we file our 10-K in a couple of weeks.
Turning to slide 15.
We have prepared a walk from our 2015 ongoing earnings of $2.21 per share to the $2.35 per share midpoint of our 2016 earnings forecast.
Our Pennsylvania Regulated segment is forecast to contribute $0.10 to the improvement in 2016 earnings.
This increase is primarily driven by the distribution base rate increase which became effective January 1 2016 and higher transmission margins and lower O&amp;M.
These positive drivers are expected to be partially offset by higher depreciation higher financing cost to fund the capital growth in Pennsylvania and the tax benefit received in 2015 from the release of a gross receipts tax reserve.
Our Kentucky Regulated segment also projects higher earnings of $0.06 per share.
This increase is primarily driven by realizing a full-year of electric and gas base rate increases that became effective July 1 2015 and higher returns on additional environmental capital investments and higher retail load and other margins.
Higher margins are expected to be partially offset by higher depreciation on the increased plant and service and higher interest expense to fund the capital growth in Kentucky.
In the UK we project slightly lower segment earnings due to higher financing costs primarily from a full year of interest expense on the December 2015 debt issuances higher depreciation expense from asset additions higher taxes and other and unfavorable effects of foreign currency as we execute some 2016 restrikes to hedge 2018 earnings near our budgeted rate of $1.60.
These negative drivers are partially offset by lower O&amp;M including pension expense and higher gross margins from price increases.
Corporate And Other is expected to be relatively flat year-over-year with slightly higher interest expense in 2016 driving the $0.01 decrease.
In addition for the U.K.
Regulated segment you will see in the appendix on slide 27 that we have provided one additional year of earnings projections.
Our UK earnings guidance range for 2017 is $1.40 per share to $1.50 per share with a midpoint of $1.45 per share.
Turning to slide 16 as Bill mentioned earlier in the call we are confident in our ability to achieve our 5% to 6% earnings growth targets through 2018 off of our 2014 adjusted ongoing earnings of $2.03 per share.
We now expect 9% to 11% growth in our domestic utility earnings and approximately 2% growth coming from our corporate restructuring efforts and we increased our expectation slightly in our UK business over this time period to 1% to 3% growth up from 1% to 2% growth.
The 1% to 3% represents growth off of 2014 earnings of $1.37 per share which incorporates the lower depreciation expense from the asset life extension and our updates on incentive revenues as well as lower net pension expense in part due to updating our pension discount rate methodology to utilize the spot rate method recently approved by the SEC to measure both service cost and interest cost.
This change in pension discount rate methodology was only applied to the UK pension plan as the method we use in the U.S.
to set our discount rate did not qualify for the spot rate method approved by the SEC.
Several key drivers to our organic growth in the domestic utilities include strong transmission rate base growth of 14% through 2018 in Pennsylvania favorable rate case outcomes contribute to our growth in both Pennsylvania and Kentucky.
The successful execution of our CapEx plans is critical for all three of our business segments.
We continue to assume minimal load growth over the period in both Kentucky and Pennsylvania.
Also included in our 5% to 6% earnings growth forecast is the full five-year extension of bonus depreciation.
As a reminder when we updated our 2017 earnings growth target to 6% last quarter we had assumed a two-year extension of bonus depreciation incorporating the full five years of bonus depreciation did not have a significant incremental effect on our 2018 earnings.
While extending bonus depreciation is a net negative to earnings it is positive from a credit perspective especially in the back end of the plan period.
Over the next five years we expect bonus depreciation to reduce our Federal cash tax position by about $270 million.
And we do not expect to be a significant cash tax payer through at least the next five years.
The increase in available cash combined with our stronger earnings growth has enabled us to reduce our equity needs from $200 million per year to $100 million per year and maintain our targeted credit metrics.
For the U.K.
Regulated segment of course executing on the Ofgem accepted RIIO-ED1 business plan has been built into the growth assumptions and provides eight years of base revenue certainty with continued opportunity to outperform targets.
We have also assumed a budgeted currency rate of $1.56 per £1 for 2016 $1.58 per £1 for 2017 and $1.60 per £1 for 2018 which includes existing hedge positions.
The inflation rate used for the 2015-2016 regulatory year tariffs was 2.6% which will be trued up for actual inflation in the 2017-2018 regulatory year.
We are now assuming the actual inflation rate for 2015-2016 will be 1.3% and the adjustment to true up the 2.6% down to the 1.3% has been included in our 2017 and 2018 earnings forecast and affects 2017 revenue by approximately $0.03 per share.
We have provided additional details on the true-up mechanisms to base revenue on slide 30 in the appendix.
Our RPI assumptions for 2016-2017 are now 2.3% and 3.1% for 2017-2018 consistent with the HM Treasury forecast.
We have increased our incentive revenue estimate for 2016 to the high end of our previous $120 million to $130 million.
We are assuming the same incentive revenues as last quarter for 2017 and 2018 and finally we are assuming an effective tax rate in the UK of about 17%.
For Corporate And Other we have built into the growth rate achieving the full $75 million in corporate support cost savings and an additional $0.02 per share improvement by 2017.
On slide 17 we're providing an update to our view of domestic cash flows for 2015 and 2016.
As you can see in the table we expect to have sufficient domestic cash flows to fund our maintenance capital and the common stock dividend with almost $300 million left over in 2016 to fund dividend growth and growth CapEx.
We have no domestic debt maturities in 2016 so the debt and equity issuances in the U.S.
will fund the rest of our growth CapEx.
Moving to slide 18 our planned capital expenditures for 2016 through 2020 are detailed on this slide with regulated utility investment totaling about $16 billion over the period and about $3.2 billion to $3.3 billion per year.
This includes previously announced initiatives such as UK spending for our accepted RIIO-ED1 business plan executing on our environmental compliance plans in Kentucky to meet EPA regulations updating and modernizing aging infrastructure in Pennsylvania including programs that identify areas to strategically improve system performance and reliability and this capital plan still excludes any impacts of the Clean Power Plan.
Moving to slide 19 our revised capital plan reflects generally the same spending levels in the UK as last year's plan except for some slight increased spending on faults and overhead repairs in 2016.
We reduced investment of approximately $650 million in Kentucky as we deferred a projected Natural Gas Compliance Cycle Plant.
However new gas-fired generation may ultimately be part of our Clean Power Plan compliance strategy which as noted on slide 18 is not included in our projections.
This was partially offset by additional reliability based programs in the transmission and distribution businesses in Kentucky while environment spending has remained fairly consistent with the prior plan.
In Pennsylvania we are experiencing higher than expected increases in reliability based on all the capital investment we've made to date.
As a result we now believe we can achieve our targeted reliability with about $270 million less of distribution capital compared to last year's plan.
Anticipated transmission spend remained relatively consistent with the prior plan.
These investments are expected to result in additional improvements in reliability over the next five years.
And consistent with last year's plan our capital plan is based on identified projects across the portfolio and does not include unidentified growth projects.
Turning to slide 20 our rate base is now expected to grow at a 5.3% CAGR over the next five years which incorporates the five-year extension of bonus depreciation and the deferral of the second combined cycle gas plant in Kentucky.
And finally moving to slide 21.
On this slide we provide an update to our GBP hedging status for 2016 2017 and 2018 including sensitivities for a $0.05 $0.10 and $0.15 downward movement in the exchange rate compared to our budgeted rate of $1.60 on our open positions.
We are 95% hedged for 2016 at an average rate of $1.56.
For 2017 we have continued to layer on hedges during the quarter and have increased our hedge percentage from 66% at the end of the third quarter to 89% today at an average rate of $1.58.
You can see from the sensitivity table that there is no exposure for 2016 and minimal exposure for 2017.
We've also started to hedge our 2018 earnings and are now 20% hedged at an average rate of $1.60.
It's important to note as well that included in our earnings guidance ranges there's enough dry powder to hedge about 50% of our 2018 UK earnings.
After we get about 50% hedged for 2018 our risk program would not require us to layer on additional hedges until about mid-2017.
Switching to RPI.
Also on this slide we show our RPI sensitivity which has been updated as well.
As I discussed earlier we are now incorporating a 1.3% RPI rate in our current 2015-2016 planning assumptions compared to the 2.6% included in our tariffs.
Therefore the 2017 RPI sensitivity for a 0.5% downward movement in the 2015-2016 RPI is now off the current budget of 1.3%.
In November of 2015 we set our 2016-2017 and 2017-2018 tariffs based on the forecasted RPI at that time consistent with Ofgem's guidance.
Now that we've completed the tariff setting process for the next two regulatory years in November of 2016 only one additional year of tariffs for 2018-2019 will be set based on the RPI forecast at that time.
Overall we're confident in our ability to manage our FX exposure and we've incorporated the low RPI environment into our earnings growth projections.
That concludes my prepared remarks and I'll turn the call over to Bill for the Q&amp;A period.
Bill? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Great.
Thank you Vince.
And operator let's open the call for questions please.
Thank you sir.
And our first question will come from Dan Eggers of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Dan.
Bill can you just maybe share some thoughts you guys laid out a lot of the CapEx details but obviously the Clean Power Plans one of these yet to be determined but potentially a big deal particularly for Kentucky.
Given the fact the states now position Pennsylvania is kind of just in a passive functionality how do you guys see your two states playing through as far as coming up with plans? And when do you think you're going to get a better handle on how you guys are going to try and work to comply? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Let me give some general comments and then I'll ask Vic Staffieri to talk specifically about Kentucky.
But I think in both states cases while they may be opposed and legally challenging the Clean Power Plan I think pragmatically speaking they both recognize that probably beginning to work on a state implementation plan would be a prudent thing to do compared to just waiting perhaps a Federal implementation plan to be visit upon them.
So I think generally speaking both states I believe will constructively work with their utilities to come up with an alternative should their efforts to overturn the roll fail.
So with that little bit of background Vic do you want to talk specifically about Kentucky? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer Kentucky Utilities Co.</span></strong> Yes.
Just recently our Governor has announced that notwithstanding the fact that Kentucky will continue to litigate as well as our company we will in fact be filing for an extension of time in September this year to push out the compliance – our compliance plans for at least an additional two years.
I think in the interim we will continue to work with them to develop a plan that will be in the best interest of Kentucky consumers.
We will work with the Kentucky Public Service Commission of course to get a plan that's acceptable and then from our perspective I would anticipate us perhaps contemplating another combined cycle plan later in the planning spec like outside this planning period probably by 2022.
But I do think Kentucky realizes that it would like to maintain the flexibility both to develop its own plan and not being subject necessarily to New York because this was a Federal implementation plan.
And second be in a position to alter its plan to the extent litigation should be successful in part or in total.
So that's where we are.
And I think it will be a constructive exercise for all of us.
And I think the state recognizes the need to maintain its flexibility.
Okay.
Thank you.
And so I guess should we just take from that we're probably not going to see a lot of incremental layering in of CapEx in Kentucky until there is more action on this front and those kind of the (33:50).
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer Kentucky Utilities Co.</span></strong> I think that's spot on.
Our initial projection would suggest we don't have to do anything until 2022.
So you wouldn't see any capital expenditures as a run up to the – to a new power plant until – after the 2018 or 2019 that you're looking at now.
Okay.
Thank you for clarifying that.
And then I guess on the FX calculation.
I think you guys said that you could hit the 2018 number even if you were clear at $1.46 on the pound right now.
If I look at your sensitivity it looks like there's about a $0.10 exposure if you were to mark to today.
Is there that much room in that pretty narrow 1% growth rate band to cover $0.10 of downside or do you guys have a lower FX number kind of embedded in that $2.52 than what's on the table on slide 21? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Dan we are very confident that we can still hit the 5% to 6% even under today's pretty weak pound.
So yeah I think we do have levers to pull O&amp;M and some other things that we've looked at.
So I think yes we are still very confident that even with this weak pound that we can maintain that 5% to 6%.
Okay.
Got it.
Thank you.
Dan it's Vince.
I think if we have to hedge up everything at $1.46 we would be at the lower end of the 5% to 6% range but we still think we'll be in that range.
And then just on the hedging so you needed to get up to about 50% so 30% more kind of in the first half of 2016 and then you have a year until you have to do the rest of that what that risk parameter would allow for? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean I would say throughout 2016 we'll execute on the rest of the re-strikes that we've embedded in the plan.
Yeah got it.
Generally.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah generally speaking that's correct.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
The next question will come from Shar Pourreza of Guggenheim Partners.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Vince and Bill.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Just a quick clarification.
The slightly lower growth in the U.S.; that's a function of the bonus depreciation extension or the pushing out of the CPG-2? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Primarily bonus.
Okay got it.
And then just lastly just focusing on Compass obviously a little bit of an undertaking here and you've announced the first segment.
Were you at all or if you go into JV parts of this line especially the New York portion are you looking for partners? And then how should we sort of think about the other segments being announced and whether the CODs of the other segments could be earlier than 2023? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Let me ask Greg Dudkin President of our PPL Electric Utilities to take that question.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director PPL Electric Utilities Corp.</span></strong> Yeah.
So with regard to potential JVs we're prepared to go this alone.
But if there is a JV that makes sense we'll certainly look at that.
As far as the other segments of the line are concerned right now we are focused on this segment and we'll continue to evaluate the other segments to make sure that we have the right cost the right plans the right modeling; and then as we get to a point where we believe that we have an exceptional project we'll then release that similar to the way we did on the first segment.
Got it.
That's helpful.
And then just to confirm this is completely additive to your growth trajectory.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director PPL Electric Utilities Corp.</span></strong> That is correct.
Excellent.
Thanks so much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're welcome.
The next question will come from Julien Dumoulin-Smith of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Julien.
So perhaps just following a little bit up on the last questions here.
As you've been thinking about spending opportunities obviously you're shifting things down a little bit.
But in light of the bonus depreciation is there any ability to accelerate some of the other spend that you would have otherwise had out in the future just to kind of take advantage of those tax benefits and perhaps argue to some of the constituency of the business there is a real tangible benefit to doing so? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It certainly is possible.
and just having seen this change here at the end of the last year we'll look to that opportunity for additional spending once we begin the planning process again for this year taking us out through 2019.
But for now we believe we've got a really solid plan with all completely identifiable projects through 2018 that we are highly confident we can execute on and we'll continue to look to see if there is additional projects we can bring into that window or the window just beyond 2018.
Got it.
And then just to get a little bit more clarity on the change in the projected T&amp;D expenses you called it reliability spend in Pennsylvania; how much of that reduction is tied to the negative sales normalized trend that we saw last year.
Is it really just about a narrow view of the liability and how effective it is? Or how much does it tie into the sales forecast itself? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Relative to sales forecast typically and I think what you're probably referring to is new customer load predominantly.
So that's pretty small – very small in the context of the large capital plan that we have.
So it would not be a major factor in moving the CapEx around one way or the other.
Got it.
All right.
Thank you guys.
Welcome.
The next question will come from Greg Gordon of Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Hey gents.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Greg.
Sorry I don't want to be a nitpicker but I wanted to follow-up on a couple of questions that were already asked.
So if I look at your slide 21 and I just take the sensitivities that – sorry slide 27 I was looking at your last deck and just take the sensitivities to heart today especially in 2018 on the pound it would basically imply an $0.11 negative delta which would put – still put you at a little over a 4% earnings growth rate from 2003 to 2018 which given the hits other companies have taken from bonus depreciation which still put you guys in the winning column.
So how are we getting from the low 4%s to 5% under that scenario because you guys seem pretty confident you have the levers? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So part of it as I mentioned were the operating and maintenance expense timing so we could move things around.
I think also as we've seen in the past when we have years where we've got strong earnings either driven by weather or other events we've taken that ability to go ahead and do re-strikes on the hedges or set in new hedges.
So I think we have built into the plan.
I know we have built into the plan some re-strikes some funds if you will for basically moving hedges around in time periods to meet our plan.
So I think the combination of those two would probably be the two levers that would most likely get pulled to keep us at that minimum 5% EPS growth rate that we're confident we can hit.
Thank you.
And then my second question is also if I just take to heart the 5% to 6% earnings growth range of $2.03 you've rolled out a 2018 earnings aspiration of $2.52.
But you sort of left a gap in the 2017 timeframe.
In the last presentation you gave – at my conference in early January there was a sort of notional target of $2.42; I know that wasn't guidance.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
But it looks like if you just look at the midpoint of 5% to 6% that number would be more like $2.38 now.
Am I over-thinking it? Or is there just a modest drag from bonus depreciation in 2017 that we need to think about? No.
I would say that 2017 guidance hasn't really changed from what we have talked about prior.
Okay.
Thanks.
I just wanted to make sure.
Have a great day.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You too.
Thanks Greg.
Your next question will come from Jonathan Arnold of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey Bill.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> I just wanted to follow-up quickly on the dry powder headroom that you referred to in talking about the FX exposure.
Is that all within the UK segment? Or are you talking about more broadly across the business? Could you clarify there? This is Vince.
So some of that – so we have about $0.05 or $0.06 kind of built into the plan to do re-strikes and further hedge up 2018.
Some of that's embedded in the UK guidance I think some of it's probably sitting up at Corporate And Other as well but in total it's about $0.05 or $0.06.
Inc.</span></strong> And that's the – and beyond that you'd be talking about cost management holistically across the company.
That's correct.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thank you guys.
Okay.
Our next question will come from Brian Chin of Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
On the hedge re-strike comment I just want to make sure I understand conceptually so that would be for example like monetizing hedges that are in the money today and using that to put on hedges in place in 2018 to some degree? Is that conceptually what you're thinking about? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Exactly right Brian.
Okay great.
And then just going back to the Kentucky nat gas plant deferral just to be clear was it the state's position on CPP that was the driving factor behind the plant deferral or was there some other factors that helped drove that? And the reason why I'm asking it is I'm wondering is there a risk of any other large asset deferrals in Kentucky or elsewhere? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Let me ask Vic Staffieri to comment on that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer Kentucky Utilities Co.</span></strong> No Brian it was purely a matter – we had some large municipals that are coming off the system later in the period five years from now; and so that's why we made the change.
We went through that application last year; had nothing to do with this Clean Power Plan.
We do not have any other generation in this plant either.
So no it had nothing to do with Clean Power Plan and there are no other anticipated deferrals of the capital spending.
So let me make sure I get that right.
So you have large municipalities you said that were coming off the system as in they are self-powered on their own and so the plant isn't needed is that right? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer Kentucky Utilities Co.</span></strong> That's correct.
They gave us notice – they have five-year termination period.
They gave us notice of termination of about 300 megawatts they gave it to us last year.
We've noted it before.
And as a result we had into the Commission looking for approval to build the plant; we withdrew that approval and the municipal notified us that they were coming off of our system and were contemplating going elsewhere.
And to the extent we have lost that revenue we'll make it up in the rate case timing that we have.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think that's April of 2019? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer Kentucky Utilities Co.</span></strong> Yes.
That's April of 2019.
So – but that's the only reason for the deferral of the power plant.
Understood.
And then lastly what's the sales growth assumptions that are embedded in the 2016 guidance? Can you break that down? Yeah.
Give us...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> In the 2016 guidance? Yes.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> For Kentucky it's – we're using an average over the period of less than – about 0.5% over the period.
I think for Pennsylvania...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer Kentucky Utilities Co.</span></strong> They're just flat.
Yeah.
Pennsylvania is flat year-over-year basically.
Okay.
Actually I see that here at the slide deck my apologies.
Thanks.
That's all I got.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Our next question will come from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Congrats on a great transformational year.
One or two simple questions.
First of all can you talk about what's assumed in guidance for earned ROEs in both Pennsylvania and Kentucky? And second on both sides can you just talk about what kind of headwinds and/or tailwinds to earning authorized are on both places? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Vic why don't you take the Kentucky ROEs and then we'll pass it over to Greg.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer Kentucky Utilities Co.</span></strong> In Kentucky for the period Michael we are somewhere within 50 basis points of the allowed 10% ROE.
Headwinds for us not a whole lot because we're going to be in rate case cycle.
Most of our returns are coming either from rate cases or ECRs.
We're using future rate years which would take into account of any economic issues which is the only thing that I could see; other than that it's a pretty solid plan for us.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director PPL Electric Utilities Corp.</span></strong> And Pennsylvania it's Greg Dudkin our expected GAAP combined ROE is 9.7% and we don't really see any headwinds particularly in 2016 because in the distribution case we had a fully projected future test year.
So we're very confident we'll be able to achieve that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Plus we are in the same place for 2016 – Kentucky we're in the same place for 2016 we just finished up our rate case also using a future rate year.
And as we noted earlier we made our filing on the ECR.
So we're in pretty good shape.
Got it.
Okay.
One other question.
Just company-wide O&amp;M can you just talk about what puts and takes are for O&amp;M 2015 over 2016? Kind of like what's embedded in guidance and where the biggest O&amp;M saves and where the biggest O&amp;M pressures are in 2016 versus 2015? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well generally speaking on the increase side the typical major driver are general wage increases many of which are already known and quantifiable through bargaining unit agreements and so forth.
So that's one of the major pluses.
I think it depends on each of the companies on other things.
So for example in Kentucky as we build more assets out on the environmental cost side there are costs associated with running new types of equipment whether it's scrubbers or other things like that.
Any other color in Kentucky Greg? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director PPL Electric Utilities Corp.</span></strong> No.
I think Bill you're right but remember we're using future rate years now.
So all of these costs are embedded and we have no plans other than what we filed with the Commission.
So I'm not sure there are a lot of – there are no really unknown puts or takes.
So I think again that's why we say it's pretty solid because it's based on a – our rates are based on a future rate year and extended in this case – our case through the middle of next year.
So we're not – our plans are pretty solid.
There's not a whole lot of puts and takes.
So we're going to do what we told the Commission we're going to do.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Those general wage increases and other factors are already in the plan.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director PPL Electric Utilities Corp.</span></strong> Wage increases attracted additional manpower to meet SIP requirements things like that; they're all embedded in our rates.
But when you do look at 2015 to 2016 that's where you would see it in those categories.
Go ahead.
Got it.
Last.
Just real quick last thing.
On the UK are you expecting O&amp;M down in the UK? And is the 17% tax rate that you mentioned in the slides that's a GAAP tax rate? And is that a lower number versus prior guidance as well? So I will take that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah go ahead Vince.
How are you doing Michael? It's Vince.
So just first on the tax rate 17% I think is pretty much where we've been guiding the last few calls.
So I would say that's consistent and pretty much see it at around 17% going out for a few years now.
On the O&amp;M if you look at slide 15 it kind of shows the walk from the $2.21 to the $2.35.
You'll see O&amp;M is really not a major driver except for the UK it's $0.02 – sorry it's $0.07 down.
About a nickel $0.05 of that is that pension methodology change.
So outside of that I would say O&amp;M is really not a major driver year-over-year.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
Much appreciated.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay Michael.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Anthony Crowdell of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Just a quick question on PPL capital funding.
You have a maturity I guess in 2018.
Do you plan I guess with maybe more cash from bonus maybe CapEx tailing down a little do you plan to retire the debt at capital funding or keep using that as a vehicle for access to capital? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I would say at this point Anthony we would likely refi that as opposed to just paying it down.
And how much debt is that capital funding? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> In total? Yes please.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We'll get that number for you.
Okay.
I'll follow up with Joe after the call.
Thanks for taking my question.
You're welcome.
And the final question will come from Andy Levi of Avon Capital Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Thought you guys are going to forget me.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We got you Andy and we never forget you.
Good morning.
How are you doing? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good.
Actually I thought it was a really good run-down so just FYI on that and very good handout too.
Just a couple of questions.
On the high-end for 2016 how do you achieve the high-end what are the drivers relative to midpoint? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Vince you want to take that one? Yeah.
So on 2016 I would say weather load growth O&amp;M management – currency is pretty much locked in so that's really not driving much of the exposure there.
I think those are the main drivers.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I would agree.
I think those are the key ones.
So it's really costs and sales basically that's.
Yeah.
Basically yeah.
Okay okay.
And then just on – just on.
(53:02) the opposite.
Correct? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Okay.
Got it.
And then just on the hedging in the UK so just to make sure because you got like a bunch of questions on it I don't know why it was still hard for people to understand.
But basically what you're saying is if I understand it correctly is that through re-strikes you're basically saying that you're 50% hedged for 2018 even though your table says 20%.
Is that kind of what you're trying to convey? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think that's a fair way to look at it.
We've not executed those yet but we have the ability and the room to do that.
So I think that's (53:38).
And then that would take obviously those sensitivities down? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Correct.
Got it.
And then the last question or point that I'd like to bring up which I find interesting after going through a week-and-a-half of earnings and looking at companies like Southern and Dominion meaning to take down their numbers because of bonus depreciation here in the U.S.
Just to be clear there is no bonus depreciation in the UK is there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director PPL Electric Utilities Corp.</span></strong> No.
Not in the way we would think about it here right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Right.
Correct.
Right.
So in a sense you could argue that by being two-thirds in the UK – again we obviously know the currency risk but at the same time not having bonus depreciation in the UK is actually a very large benefit for you relative to some of the other U.S.
utilities who have seen their earnings significantly – earnings power significantly go lower because of bonus depreciation.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think that's true.
Yeah.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Thank you Andy.
Just to get back on – was it Anthony's question on how much debt is that cap funding; $3.6 billion.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Vince.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Okay.
Thanks everyone for your participation on today's call.
I would just summarize by saying that 2015 was an extremely pivotal year for PPL for many of the reasons I mentioned at the outset of my remarks.
I think it's incredible if you look at where we are since the spin.
We've raised EPS growth rate guidance; we've achieved two favorable rate outcomes in Pennsylvania and Kentucky; we've raised our guidance on UK incentive revenue; we lowered our exposure to the pound; we signaled meaningful increases in our dividend growth; and we've lowered our equity needs.
I can't think of another company that has accomplished so much in such a short period of time.
And throughout this transformation we've continued to execute at a high level consistently delivered on our earnings forecast exceeding the midpoint of our forecast for the sixth year in a row.
Our assets are diverse.
We operate in premium jurisdictions continuing to invest heavily in our businesses to improve service for customers as well as grow value for shareowners and I think we've demonstrated a proven ability to execute very large capital projects and managing our foreign currency exposure.
Looking forward I believe we're very well positioned to continue to deliver on these commitments the shareowners offering competitive earnings growth and an-above average dividend yield.
So with that thank you very much for being on the call today and look forward to our next earnings call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen the conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.