And thank you so much ladies and gentlemen for standing by.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 Prudential Financial Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Eric Durant.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Karen and thank you to all of you for joining our earnings call.
But first in our 11th year as a public company participants on today's call include: John Strangfeld CEO; Mark Grier Vice Chairman; Rich Carbone CFO; Ed Baird Head of International Operations; Charlie Lowrey Head of Domestic Operations; and Peter Sayre Principal Accounting Officer.
I'll read a quick commercial message and then we'll get started.
In order to help you to understand Prudential Financial we will make some forward-looking statements in the following presentation.
It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today.
Additional information regarding factors that could cause such a difference appears in the section titled Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures of our earnings press release for the fourth quarter of 2011 which can be found on our website at www.investor.prudential.com.
In addition in managing our businesses we use a non-GAAP measure we call adjusted operating income to measure the performance of our Financial Services businesses.
Adjusted operating income excludes net investment gains and losses as adjusted and related charges and adjustments as well as results from divested businesses.
Adjusted operating income also excludes recorded changes in asset values that are expected to ultimately accrue to contract holders and recorded changes in contract holder liabilities resulting from changes in related asset values.
Our earnings press release contains information about our definition of adjusted operating income.
The comparable GAAP presentation and the reconciliation between the 2 for the quarter and year ended December 31 are set out in our earnings press release on our website.
Additional historical information relating to the company's financial performance is also located on our website.
John.
Thank you Eric.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
Now that we've closed the books on 2011 I will kick things off with some high-level comments on the year as a whole.
First earnings.
Earnings per share based on after-tax adjusted operating income of the Financial Services businesses were $6.41 compared to $6.17 a year ago.
This modest improvement in EPS does not reflect our progress during the year.
If you remove the market-driven and discrete items we've disclosed each quarter which Rich and Mark will review with you for the fourth quarter the EPS increase would be 22%.
Second capital.
Our capital position remains exceedingly strong.
We are well positioned to pursue business opportunities and we have capacity to remain strongly capitalized even in stressed environments.
As for capital management we will continue to seek acquisitions where we can realize attractive returns and are comfortable with the execution risk such as our acquisition of Star and Edison.
At the same time we take a balanced approach to investing in businesses and returning capital to shareholders.
During the second half we returned about $1.7 billion of capital to shareholders through our share repurchase program and increased dividend.
We did this while maintaining a solid balance sheet and growing book value.
Third commercial momentum.
We are a leader in the markets we've chosen to compete in and you can see strong commercial momentum reflected in our business drivers.
Solid sales and flows drove underlying growth in our U.S.
businesses with headlines in Retirement and Asset Management.
Prudential Retirement’s gross deposits and sales reached a record high of $44 billion driven by strong sales in the Institutional stable value wrap market and including groundbreaking defined benefit risk transfer sales.
Account values in Annuity and Retirement registered significant gains from a year earlier and AUM and Asset Management exceeded the $600 billion mark for the first time.
As you know we strengthened our International business with the Star and Edison acquisitions last February.
Business integration is well on track with the successful completion of the merger of Star and Edison into Gibraltar on January 1 being a major event.
We remain confident that we will achieve planned expense savings on schedule.
In International Insurance we're benefiting from expanding distribution and continued growth in the Life Insurance Protection and Retirement markets.
Among our milestones in 2011 was more than $3 billion of annualized new business premiums including the initial contribution from Star and Edison and a growing contribution from the bank channel in Japan.
So to conclude Prudential had a very good year driven by the quality of our individual businesses by the mix of those businesses by our financial strength and we believe by the talent of our people.
Our solid results enhance our confidence that we will achieve our ROE aspiration of 13% to 14% for 2013.
With that I'll turn it over to Rich.
Thanks John.
Good morning everyone.
Last night we reported common stock earnings per share of $1.97 for the fourth quarter based on adjusted operating income for the Financial Services business.
Now this compares to the $1.76 per share in the year ago quarter.
We have a short but not insignificant list of market-driven and discrete items affecting current quarter results.
In the Annuities business the equity market increase in the quarter caused us to release a portion of our reserves to guaranteed minimum death and income benefits and led to a favorable DAC unlocking resulting in a benefit totaling $0.28 per share.
In Individual Life the equity market increase in the quarter drove a reduction in net amortization of DAC and related items for a benefit of $0.03 per share.
In the International Insurance Gibraltar Life and other operations benefited by $0.15 per share from the sale of our stake in a pension fund manager in Mexico.
This benefit was largely offset by the integration cost of $0.13 relating to the Star/Edison acquisition.
In total the items I just mentioned had a net favorable impact of about $0.33 per share on the fourth quarter results.
The year-ago quarter benefited about $0.32 per share from unlockings and reserve releases mainly from the 10% increase in the S&amp;P 500 in that quarter and from the gain on the partial sale of the indirect investment in the China Pacific Life group.
Taking these items out of both the current and the year-ago quarters would produce an EPS increase of about $0.14 per share driven largely by organic business growth and the contribution of Star/Edison earnings x the onetime charges of course.
Moving on to the GAAP results of our Financial Services business.
We reported net income of $606 million or $1.26 per share for the fourth quarter compared to $2.13 or $0.45 per share a year ago.
GAAP net income for the current quarter includes amounts characterized as pretax realized investment losses of $568 million.
This compares to $906 million of pretax realized investment losses in the year-ago quarter.
The $568 million of current quarter losses includes net losses of $367 million primarily from product-related hedging activities.
Impairments and credit losses amounted to $142 million.
And losses from asset and liability value changes driven mainly by currency fluctuations amounted to $95 million.
These losses were partially offset by net gains from general portfolio activities mainly sales.
Book value per share on a GAAP basis amounted to $75.04 at year end and this compares to $63.11 a year earlier.
As of year end gross unrealized losses on the general account fixed maturities were $4.3 billion.
This compares to $3.1 billion a year ago with nearly all of the increases taking place in the third quarter and mainly resulting from foreign currency movements.
And we ended the year in a net unrealized gain position of $10.5 billion.
Book value per share excluding unrealized investment gains and losses and pension and postretirement benefits stood at $66.63 at year end up $7.15 from a year ago and of course that is after giving effect to our common stock dividend of $1.45 per share a 26% increase from the 2010 dividend.
Now our capital position.
First I'll focus on the insurance companies.
We are continuing to manage these companies to capital levels consistent with what we believe are AA standards.
Prudential Insurance began last year with an RBC ratio of 533%.
During the year Prudential Insurance paid dividends totaling $1.6 billion to the holding company Prudential Financial Inc.
essentially moving excess capital to the parent company and thereby enhancing our financial flexibility.
While statutory results of 2011 are not yet final we estimate that RBC for Prudential Insurance as of year end 2011 will be in the 500% range.
Our Japanese insurance companies recently reported their solvency margins as of September 30 2011 using both the historical calculation method and a new method that becomes effective this year.
These companies were comfortably above their targets under both methods.
Effective January 1 we successfully merged the Star and Edison companies into Gibraltar Life.
We are confident that at the end of their current fiscal year which ends March 31 2012 our Japanese companies will continue to report strong solvency margins relative to their targets.
Next looking at the overall capital position for the Financial Services business.
And as you know we calculate our balance sheet capital capacity by comparing the statutory capital position in Prudential Insurance to a full 100% RBC ratio and then add capital capacity held at both the parent and other subsidiaries.
We began 2011 with on-balance sheet capital capacity that we estimated was in the range of $4 billion to $4.5 billion.
After adjusting for Star -- and that was after adjusting for the Star/Edison acquisition and the sale of Global Commodities.
During 2011 we added about $3.5 billion of capital and used about $2 billion of that to fund the capital needs of our businesses.
We returned about $1.7 billion to shareholders through our share repurchase program and our common stock dividend.
The remaining authorization under the share repurchase program which extends through 2012 is $500 million.
The net result of these activities left our on-balance sheet capital capacity essentially unchanged from where we began 2011 about $4 billion to $4.5 billion.
And this is consistent with the estimate we provided you in November.
So really nothing has changed of our -- on our capital capacity that is.
Of our $4 billion to $4.5 billion in capital capacity we estimate that about half is readily deployable.
Now turning to the cash position at the holding company the parent company.
Cash and short-term investments net of outstanding commercial paper amounted to roughly $3 billion at year end.
We continue to target maintaining at least a $1 billion liquidity cushion at the parent.
The excess of our capital position over this target is available to repay maturing debt fund the operating needs of our subsidiaries and to be redeployed over time including for share repurchases.
Now I'll turn over to Mark to review the business results for the quarter.
Thank you Rich.
Good morning good afternoon or good evening whichever is appropriate.
I'll start with our U.S.
businesses.
Our Annuity business reported adjusted operating income of $391 million for the fourth quarter compared to $345 million a year ago.
The reserve true-ups and DAC unlocking that Rich mentioned had a net favorable impact of $180 million on current quarter results.
This includes a benefit of $121 million from the release of a portion of our reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits and a further benefit of $59 million from reduced amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs in both cases reflecting favorable market performance.
Results for the year-ago quarter included a net benefit of $146 million from a favorable DAC unlocking and reserve true-ups largely driven by the 10% increase in the S&amp;P 500 that quarter.
Stripping out the unlockings and true-ups Annuity results were $211 million for the current quarter compared to $199 million a year ago or an increase of $12 million.
This increase represents the net effect of growth in our fees at a very solid pace partly offset by a higher level of base DAC amortization and by higher expenses and interest charges in the current quarter.
Policy charges and fee income in the quarter increased by $57 million or 14% from a year ago reflecting an increase of $10 billion in average variable annuity separate account values driven by $13 billion in net sales over the past year.
However we've accelerated our base level of DAC amortization in the current quarter following our negative unlocking in the third quarter.
In addition current quarter expenses were higher than a year ago partly as a result of business development costs.
And interest expense was also higher reflecting the financing of commissions and other costs of writing new business.
Our gross variable annuity sales for the quarter amounted to $4.4 billion in line with the second and third quarters.
This compares to $6.1 billion a year ago when new business was bolstered by sales in advance of the repricing of our annuity products in early 2011.
Our relative position within the top few variable annuity writers from one quarter to another reflects the constant dynamic of changes in the marketplace including actions by competitors to revamp their products which led in some instances to sale surges due to product introductions or in anticipation of future retrenchments or repricings.
Our highest daily protected value feature coupled with auto-rebalancing tailored to each customer's account clearly distinguishes our product and has a proven track record of more than 5 years with clients and their advisors.
We strongly believe that our consistent approach to product design and our demonstrated commitment to the advisor sold variable annuity business provide us with a solid competitive advantage in the market that is very much driven by third-party gatekeepers and distributors.
And that the various ways of product design changes and market entries exits and reentries by various providers serve to distinguish us and strengthen our position with our distribution partners.
The Retirement segment reported adjusted operating income of $142 million for the current quarter compared to $147 million a year ago.
The decrease reflected a lower contribution from investment results mainly driven by non-coupon asset classes.
The weaker investment results in the current quarter were partly offset by higher fees reflecting an account value growth in institutional investment products and by lower expenses.
Total Retirement gross deposits and sales reached a record high $14.7 billion for the quarter up 33% from a year ago.
The increase was driven by sales of stable value wrap products sold to plan sponsors on a standalone basis which amounted to $8.8 billion in the quarter up from $6 billion a year ago.
Standalone Institutional sales also included 2 longevity reinsurance cases totaling $1.6 billion in the emerging defined benefit risk transfer market where we are developing innovative solutions to help plan sponsors and benefit providers manage the risks of defined benefit pension plans.
These DBRT sales follow our initial pension risk transfer sales earlier in the year which included a pension plan buy-in of a specifically designed Annuity product the first of its kind in the U.S.
market.
While this market is still developing we see this as a long-term opportunity where we will be among just a few companies that can offer effective solutions to deal with defined benefit pension plan risks.
Full Service Retirement gross deposits and sales were $3.9 billion in the current quarter compared to $4.1 billion a year ago.
We are continuing to see slow case turnover in the mid- to large-case market which is our primary focus.
Lapses of 2 large cases primarily recordkeeping services cases with relatively limited fees contributed to net outflows for our Full Service business of about $2 billion in the quarter.
Overall net additions for the Retirement business were $6.7 billion for the quarter compared to $4.5 billion a year ago.
Account values stood at a record high $229.5 billion at the end of the quarter up 12% from a year ago.
The Asset Management business reported adjusted operating income of $155 million for the current quarter compared to $132 million a year ago for a 17% increase in earnings.
The improvement in results came mainly from higher Asset Management fees driven by growth in Assets Under Management.
The segment Assets Under Management reached $619 billion as of year end up about $80 billion or 15% from a year earlier.
The increase in AUM reflected positive net flows in each of the past 4 quarters cumulative market appreciation and the addition of about $15 billion primarily U.S.
dollar general account assets from the Star and Edison acquisitions last February.
The increase in earnings for the quarter also reflected a $7 million greater contribution from performance-based fees driven by institutional fixed income and real estate funds we manage.
Adjusted operating income for our Individual Life Insurance business was $146 million for the current quarter compared to $131 million a year ago.
Lower amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and other items reflecting favorable separate account performance in relation to our assumptions benefited the current quarter by about $20 million and contributed about $10 million to the increase in results from the year-ago quarter which also benefited from market performance.
In addition current quarter results benefited from a greater contribution from underwriting results driven by growth in our books of universal life and term insurance reflecting an increase of $24 billion or 5% in insurance in force for those products over the past year.
Mortality was favorable in relation to our average expectations for both the current quarter and the year-ago quarter and had a modest positive impact in the comparison of quarterly results.
Sales based on annualized new business premiums amounted to $75 million for the current quarter up from $67 million a year ago.
The increase was driven by third-party sales and reflects our improved relative competitive position in the universal life market.
The Group Insurance business reported adjusted operating income of $55 million in the current quarter compared to $69 million a year ago.
Higher current quarter expenses a lower contribution from investment results and less favorable group disability underwriting results each contributed to the earnings decline.
More favorable group life underwriting results reflecting business growth and improved claims experience was a partial offset.
Group Insurance sales for the quarter were $86 million including $49 million for group life.
This compares to a total of $109 million a year ago.
More than 3/4 of our group life sales in the current quarter and about 2/3 for the full year were voluntary business representing coverage purchased by employees or association members rather than employer-paid insurance.
Turning now to our International businesses.
Gibraltar Life's adjusted operating income was $356 million in the current quarter compared to $260 million a year ago.
As Rich mentioned Gibraltar's results for the current quarter include income of $96 million from the sale of our stake in Afore XXI a pension fund manager in Mexico.
Going the other way Gibraltar's results for the quarter absorbed $94 million of integration costs for the Star and Edison acquisitions.
We continue to expect about $500 million of integration costs over a 5-year period including roughly $200 million in 2012 to achieve targeted annual cost savings of about $200 million after the business integration is completed.
Our completion of the merger of the Star and Edison legal entities into Gibraltar effective January 1 of this year was a major milestone.
And the migration of the acquired investment portfolio to a more favorable risk profile is substantially complete.
The business integration including product transitioning merging of field offices and migration of the Star and Edison sales forces to Prudential training and productivity standards is on track.
Gibraltar's results for the year-ago quarter included income of $66 million from the partial sale of our indirect investment in China Pacific Group.
Excluding the Afore and China Pacific gains and the Star and Edison integration costs Gibraltar's adjusted operating income was up $160 million from a year ago.
This increase includes a $128 million contribution to current quarter results from the operations of the acquired Star and Edison businesses.
True-ups and refinements have resulted in some noise in our results for Star and Edison both in the current quarter and the earlier quarters of the year.
So I would think of the average contribution for the first 3 full quarters just over $100 million per quarter as more indicative of the initial operating results before realization of most of the expense synergies we are targeting.
The remainder of the increase in Gibraltar's results from a year ago or $32 million came mainly from business growth driven by protection products.
Sales from Gibraltar Life based on annualized new business premiums in constant dollars were $519 million in the current quarter.
This represents an increase of $266 million from a year ago including $218 million from Star and Edison distribution and $48 million of organic growth which would be a 19% increase on a same-store basis.
The Star and Edison sales include about $140 million from Life Advisors and about $75 million from independent agents including about $20 million from a products that we have discontinued as part of the integration of the product portfolio.
The Star and Edison agents are migrating to sales of Gibraltar products and their strong production in the current quarter up more than 20% from the average of the second and third quarters reflects the popularity of our U.S.
dollar Retirement product with their client.
Our organic growth and sales for the quarter was largely driven by the bank channel where we are continuing to broaden our reach.
The distribution agreement we signed a few months ago with Mizuho Japan's third largest bank expanded our distribution to include 2 of the country's 3 largest banks and we began to write business through Mizuho in the third quarter -- I mean the fourth quarter.
Our Life Planner business reported adjusted operating income of $336 million for the current quarter compared to $328 million a year ago.
Current quarter results benefited from continued business growth.
On a constant dollar basis insurance revenues including premiums policy charges and fees were up 6% from a year ago.
However the benefit from continued growth was partly offset in the quarterly comparison by less favorable mortality versus a year ago when the mortality contribution was stronger than our average expectations.
Sales from our Life Planner operations based on annualized new business premiums and constant dollars were $280 million in the current quarter up from $269 million a year ago.
We are continuing to benefit from strong demand for Retirement income products both in Japan and our other Asian markets.
Corporate and Other operations reported a loss of $281 million for the current quarter compared to $239 million loss a year ago.
The increased loss in the current quarter reflects a higher level of capital debt including the impact of debt financing for part of the purchase price of Star and Edison as well as higher expenses including some nonlinear items such as corporate advertising and employee benefits.
To wrap up I would say that the fourth quarter was a strong conclusion to a very good year for us.
Thank you for your interest in Prudential.
Now we look forward to hearing your questions.
Before we take the first question 2 quick housekeeping matters.
The share repurchase authorization of $1.5 billion that Rich mentioned extends through the end of June 2012 not through the end of the year.
And separately the expected expense savings associated with Star and Edison ultimately are expected to amount to $250 million not $200 million.
Now for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Suneet Kamath Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on the pace of share buybacks.
Obviously lower in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter it certainly came as a surprise to me perhaps others as well.
So just want to get a sense of kind of what governed that decision in terms of your thinking about third quarter and then ultimately what happened in the fourth quarter.
Yes this is Mark.
I guess I'd start the answer by saying don't try to read something into it that isn't there.
We take a fairly long view of capital deployment and we were uncharacteristically opportunistic in the third quarter.
And almost by definition if you speed up a little bit sometimes you're going to slow down a little bit some other time and it's nothing more than that.
We're on track with respect to implementing our capital deployment plans balance sheet is very strong liquidity is very strong.
And so I would encourage you to take a longer view than just a quarter-to-quarter fluctuation.
This is not a trading environment for us.
Again we were opportunistic in the third quarter but we're on track with respect to our longer-term objectives and comfortable with the trajectory.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess my second question on capital is if I go back to the investor slide that you put out I think it was in December you talked about the required capital increasing by about $2 billion in the 2011 year.
Given kind of where we sit today Annuities are slowing down at least relative to the first quarter.
And then you have these institutional investment products and I guess I'm not quite sure what the capital requirements on those are and how they compare to Annuities.
And then you have this longevity risk transfer business that you're adding.
Kind of when you think about the business mix shifts that are occurring in terms of new business any changes to the kind of $2 billion number in terms of incremental capital that you needed last year as you think about this year? You hit on all the right points.
It's going to depend on the business but all of that capital one way or another is going to be deployed at rates that are going to support our 13% to 14% ROE goal.
Whether they're used in buybacks or they're used in business they're going to support that goal for 2013.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
I guess maybe just to track it a little bit if we compare Annuities to Institutional investment products obviously the requirements for Annuities have gone up over time.
How do those 2 businesses compare in terms of their capital needs? Well there are 2 different metrics of which their capital needs are driven right? Annuities capital needs are driven by -- mostly by the deferred acquisition costs that we pay upfront and in the other products they're driven a lot by longevity and credit risk.
So I'm loath to give you a rule of thumb that's going to reconcile pi to Avogadro's number.
Suneet the capital requirements on the investment-only stable value products are pretty small.
Annuities are more capital-intensive and that's the directional answer.
But as Rich points out it does depend on some of the specifics of the products.
But Annuities would be more capital-intensive than investment-only stable value.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So perhaps favorable mix shift.
Yes favorable mix shift if Annuities slow down and investment-only stable value speeds up yes.
The wildcard is the defined benefit risk transfer.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And how would those compare to Annuities? Well off the top of my head I'd have to say maybe it's sort of in the middle.
But that's one where we could do quite a lot of business if the market really does get going.
So the wildcard there that I'm referencing is more the potential volume in a market that's just developing.
Yes I'd say that was a push.
But once again I want to make the point that the ROEs in these products are supporting that 13% to 14% return.
Nigel Dally Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Another question on capital.
So to move the ROE towards your 2013 target you're obviously going to need to redeploy a substantial amount of the $4 billion to $4.5 billion of excess capital.
In addition to buybacks you mentioned potential acquisition opportunities in your comments.
Should we imply from that that the pipeline of potential targets is beginning to improve? And also can you provide a pecking order of what products or geographies are of greatest interest to you? Then -- perhaps if we start then I’ll follow up.
Okay.
So Nigel if I don't cover it you tell me.
So this is John.
So a couple thoughts about this.
First vis-à-vis the ROE targets.
The way we think about achieving the aspiration as Rich described as I've mentioned in my prepared comments there are 3 primary things that are going to get us there.
One is the successful integration of Star/Edison and you’ve heard the progress we're making on that front.
The second is the continuing growth of our high returning businesses and you're seeing strong fundamentals in those businesses.
And the third is also successful deployment of our excess capital both that which we have and that which we create over time.
When we think in terms of M&amp;A I have to sort of step back versus -- let's just talk about opportunity sets first and then go to M&amp;A at the risk of giving you a longer response than what you're looking for.
But I think it's more representative of how we think about this which is that -- clearly in our mind organic is cheaper and it's a less intrusive way to develop the business.
And at times like this the combination of a strong brand strong capital and unquestioned commitment that aligns a business in which we're in have been very advantageous and you see that showing up in our fundamentals.
And that's the first sort of priority we have in terms of growing our business over time.
And it's not just a theory; it's reality and you can see it.
And that's where our business leadership is focused.
And in some cases it manifests itself in new products as well or new distribution channels and in new business areas as Mark mentioned with defined benefit risk transfer and the progress there.
So we're feeling very very good about it.
Now insofar as M&amp;A there's not a different story here.
There's a number of franchises [indiscernible] and the outcomes and the timelines of those things are uncertain.
Whether we wind up simply competing with them or whether we wind up buying with them is going to be a product of a whole lot of considerations and market dynamics.
We're obviously a good counterparty.
We've proven that as an example with AIG and other things we've done in the past but we really can't predict the likelihood of this.
It is important to say that we don't think our prospects are M&amp;A dependent.
That's that key thing in the sense that M&amp;A is an opportunistic overlay to what we think is a very healthy organic strategy and trajectory.
And then finally as to your comment about well what would be more interesting to us? I think I'd just basically say it's very consistent with what we said before Retirement and Protection U.S.
and abroad.
What you see we tend to commonly find of interest is broadening our activities in areas where we already have a footprint Japan being the most classic example of that.
Obviously we all can have some interest in broadening the footprint itself.
But more commonly what you see us doing is going more deeply within the markets in which we're already in.
So that would be how I would characterize the overall picture defining it for the big opportunity set the perception about organic being the primary focus and thrust the perception that we've got new product development and other things that we think have great promise and then M&amp;A will be an opportunistic overlay in the manner that I described.
So that's the -- that's how I respond to your question.
Research Division</strong> Great very helpful.
Second question was just on group disability.
Clearly somewhat challenging backdrop there.
Can you discuss what you've done with pricing in that business and how quickly that potentially could flow through to improve the overall results? Sure Nigel.
It's Charlie.
Obviously disability we had a challenging quarter this quarter.
And I think that really reflects the continuing effects of the economy.
And I think in terms of pricing when we -- most of our cases are large cases which means that they're experiential.
And since we've had relatively poor experience we are able to increase the pricing.
So we're doing that and we've been doing that since probably halfway through last year.
Most of our cases are 2 years or less.
So we're beginning to work our way through the pipeline so to speak.
Mark Finkelstein Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Actually just a follow-up to the prior question.
Can you give us some benchmark as to what are the average rate increases that you're guiding on the cases that you are renewing? Yes it's -- I don't mean to dodge the question but they really are experiential.
And so you get some that are in the low single digits you get some that are in the double digits.
It really depends on the experience.
But I think it's fair to say that we are -- we're looking at it extremely closely and we are getting price increases as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then maybe just one follow-up as well on capital.
You have $500 million left in the authorization.
On the last call Mark characterized it as a fluid evolving process that you look at continually.
But last year you spent about what you generated call it $1.5 billion.
What is it -- what do you need to see? Or what is it that has to happen to really start dipping into that what you characterize as readily deployable capital which you characterized as half of that $4 billion to $4.5 billion? There's another ingredient to that mix right? And that's the absolute leverage ratio.
And we've got this targeted 25% debt to capital ratio.
It's important for us it's important for our rating.
That is one ingredient in there that we're always mindful of.
And other than that as capital becomes available at the holding company we'll reevaluate our buybacks and we'll reevaluate our dividends.
Yes Mark we have a plan for the way in which capital emerges and the way in which it's deployed in the businesses and we'll be looking at a range of variables including financial ratios that Rich mentioned.
But we're pretty comfortable with where we are and the deployment track and the business track to realize the objective that we've set out there.
Keep in mind though that when we set an objective of 13% to 14% we didn't qualify it by saying it's easy.
That reflects what we believe is the earnings power of the company supported by an appropriate capital structure.
And we've got to manage to realize that earnings power and we have to deploy the capital.
And Rich emphasized earlier that everything we do is focused on ensuring that we're accretive to that capital outcome.
And so the context of this is that we do have a vision of earnings power and capital that we'll realize our objective and we're going to manage to it.
Our capital plans are hard wired into that 13% to 14% return.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One just very quick follow-up to that is if I go back call it 3 4 5 years you used to give sensitivities to S&amp;P movements kind of in a  range of say 30 to 50 RBC points for every 100-point move in the S&amp;P.
Again I know it's totally changed right now and so those old metrics are no longer that useful.
But is there anything that we can point to to just think about how S&amp;P moves drive capital? Hey Mark it's Eric.
Maybe my memory is failing me but that is not something that we've done in the past.
And we're not going to start that today.
Chris Giovanni Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if you could talk some about sort of the current status today as a savings and loan company.
I believe you're working with the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston which I think your overseer here on the supervisory side to deregister.
As a savings and loan I wanted to kind of walk through this process and sort of what you deem is the benefits to the extent that you get deregistered.
Yes this is Mark.
I'll start and maybe I'll ask Charlie to make a comment on the business if he wants to.
I’d use a little bit broader framework than just deregister.
We're in the process of managing the thrift in a way that will remove us from automatic coverage by the Volcker rules.
And the issue with respect to the impact of the Volcker rules is concentrated for us in the Asset Management Business where we do sponsor funds and co-invest and the level of activity and market expectations in that arena for us are both inconsistent with compliance with the Volcker rules.
So we're looking at the options that we have.
You indicated working with regulators.
We are working with regulators to assess our options.
And we anticipate that over the next few months we will manage the thrift to a situation where we won't be automatically subject to the Volcker rules.
I don't know if Charlie wants to add something to the Asset Management business piece of it but the objective here is related to our business models and asset management and our ability to execute what is a very very successful business for us.
Yes.
No I think that covers it well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just second question in terms of the VA business.
I guess your largest competitors made a commitment here to dial back noticeably in the market and I wanted to see if here early in 1Q if you're seeing sales levels pick up as they look to retrench or how you're seeing the VA marketplace today and similar along those lines how you're viewing your current product.
Okay.
I can't really talk about the first quarter but what I can do is just talk about the consistency of our sales.
I mean we really look for sustainable profitable growth.
And if you look what we did at the beginning of last year we reduced the benefits and increased the pricing with the acknowledgment that interest rates were probably going to be low and stay low for quite a period of time.
That allowed us to have a consistency of product with a sustainable profitability over the long term.
And that's what really we look for.
So the last 3 quarters have been -- including the fourth quarter have had a sustainable and fairly level rate of sales.
And so we feel comfortable with that level and we'll look to see what happens this year.
But we feel comfortable with what happened last year and where we are in terms of product.
Jimmy Bhullar JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a few questions.
The first on your Japan business your sale in the bank channel obviously grew at a strong pace versus the previous year but declined sequentially in the fourth quarter.
So I just wanted to get an idea on if you think you've saturated the market there or do you think there's opportunity for further growth.
And then on the Retirement business in the Full Service Retirement side you’ve had negative flows for the last several quarters.
And your views on that business have gotten more negative as -- over the past couple of years.
So I just wanted to see what you see -- what your outlook is for the Full Service Retirement.
And then lastly on the Institutional Retirement side if you can just talk about the pipeline.
Obviously this quarter you had a couple of pretty large longevity risk transactions.
But just -- where do you see the pipeline and what type of pricing do you have -- are you seeing in that business given that a lot of competitors have actually dropped out? We'll start with Japan and Ed.
Jimmy it's Ed Baird.
The fourth quarter bank channel sales were -- as you pointed out they were actually up 32% which is a meaningful increase over the comparison quarter.
But if you compare it to the preceding quarter not as strong and I think that might be the first time that that's happened in several years because this channel of course has grown at an extraordinary rate.
I don't attribute any meaningful significance to that other than the fact that the third quarter was up around 70%.
So the fact that the fourth quarter wasn't able to exceed that by going up only 32% is not a point of concern.
One of the big banks was a little lower than they had been in the prior quarter but we continue to add banks and we continue to deepen our penetration with them.
So I think as the long term trend here continues to be quite positive with any third-party distribution you're going to see a characteristic fluctuation quarter-to-quarter.
But I think if you look at this on any rolling quarter basis this has an extraordinary amount of momentum in it.
Charlie? Okay.
Let me answer -- you had 2 questions.
I'll answer the one about Full Service outflows first.
The backdrop here is that we are in the mid to large end of the market.
And there that we're still seeing what we saw before which is low plan formation not a lot of RFPs out there and that's affecting plan sales.
We're also seeing as we talked about before further unbundling in the marketplace and fee disclosures all of that affects I think over time the profitability of the business.
So we look at the business and we still like the business but we're going to exhibit I think a fair amount of price discipline in what we choose to take or what we let lapse.
And you've seen some of that this quarter.
So I think that begins to explain at least some of the outflows that we see.
And we're comfortable with the business we're writing and we're comfortable with the business we're letting lapse.
The other side of the business though as you talk about the IIP business as we call it and the investment-only stable value we're still very pleased with.
We think there is a dearth of this kind of product in the marketplace pricing is holding up very well.
And we continue to see a fair amount of opportunity in this side of the business.
So we'll continue to focus on both sides.
But in terms of near-term opportunity I think the IOSB business is -- has a lot of growth potential left.
Jimmy was your question about investment-only stable value or about defined benefit risk transfer? Research Division</strong> No just on the defined benefit risk transfer because you had a couple of large cases I think in the U.K.
market in the fourth quarter.
Yes sorry.
I missed that.
In terms of defined benefit risk transfer I'll take the U.K.
and then the U.S.
In the U.K.
we did do some interesting deals and they were reinsurance deals on the longevity side.
We see that as a market that will continue.
The U.K.
is I think well ahead of the U.S.
and has been for years in terms of pension risk transfer and especially longevity risk.
And we are participating in that and see a fair amount of opportunity.
In the U.S.
I think as I just said the market is a little further behind.
We do think this will be a business going forward but it's challenging obviously given the low interest rates now and the underfunding of the pension plans.
But it's a business that we have built up significant capabilities in and think that there will be over the long term some significant opportunities going forward.
Jay Gelb Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I had 2 issues I'd like to cover.
The first is on Star/Edison.
For those expense savings should we expect all those to fall to the bottom line or will there be any offsets in investments or otherwise? And the second issue would be for Mark if you can update us on the nonbank SIFI classification.
There’s a one -- we might expect to -- for that to be implemented and steps Prudential will take ahead of that.
Jay this is Ed Baird.
Let me just refresh some of the numbers that were given because we're completely consistent and on track with the numbers originally outlined a year ago when we announced this deal.
And that is that the expenses are onetime expenses which will accumulate to a total of around $500 million and that the savings which will be ongoing will accumulate to about $250 million.
So the difference is clearly in terms of the onetime versus the sustainable earnings.
And that will drop as you said to the bottom line and we're very well on pace with that.
By the end of this year we're going to be probably in the $170 million range or so meaning 2012 towards the $250 million target.
And on the expenses we're going to probably be as much as 75% or 80%.
And Jay any top line I thought you might have inferred there that you were thinking about the top line erosion.
Any top line erosion was tested with shock lapse in the deal economics and they're all contemplated in the returns that we've provided to you in the past.
So we've contemplated the savings and loss in revenues and the onetime costs.
They're all in the ROEs and they're all in our future projections.
No surprises.
And this is Mark on the second question about systemically important financial institutions.
Process-wise there's not a lot of concrete things to point to.
There certainly is constructive thinking going on around the question of which kind of institutions might be systemically significant and how to think about those companies.
But it's not really clear yet where this will go.
Remember that there's a process that would involve the nomination of a company for consideration by the Financial Stability Oversight Council and then a discussion with the company and an opportunity to talk about what it looks like and what that might mean and then questions going forward about exactly how any particular company might be regulated with respect to the metrics and the calibration of those metrics as a nonbank SIFI in the case of Prudential.
We continue to engage with respect to discussions on the financial dynamics of insurance companies particularly in contrast to banks and we continue to engage on understanding products and risk.
One of the sensitivities that I've talked about repeatedly is the need to understand statutory reserving practices because we have capital spread all over the place up and down our liability side because of the way we recognize our sobasic [ph] liabilities.
And we continue to get opportunities to engage on that front.
So Federal Reserve did put out a paper that contemplated the treatment of nonbank SIFIs.
And in the paper the statement was that they would be looked at the same way banks are looked at.
But it really I believe was an opportunity to engage and a chance for the nonbank SIFI world in general the insurance world and then Prudential more specifically to comment on the impact of that and how we would think about it.
The specific question about how effective that might be and understanding unintended consequences are all important there.
So we have the opportunity over the next couple of months to engage seriously on the issue that we've always thought was most important which is how we would be looked at if we were a nonbank SIFI and we'll be prepared to make a constructive comment on that framework and on the issues that we're thinking about in terms of possibly regulated as a SIFI.
So the headline is a bit of uncertainty still process-wise and even with respect to whether or not we would be designated systemically important and the opportunity right now to engage on substantive issues around what it might mean if we were.
John Nadel Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> A couple quick ones.
I realize acquisitions are all unique in terms of the financial metrics.
But just generally speaking I'm interested in how you would characterize your capacity to execute a deal with no external financing.
Should we focus more on the $2 billion of what Rich referred to as readily deployable? Or could we focus on something closer to the $4 billion to $4.5 billion of total capital capacity? It depends on where the acquisition is right? So acquisitions made out as a holding company you need to focus on the $2 billion to $2.3 billion.
Acquisitions that can be done partially inside those regulated entities with that other capital capacity we could absorb that capital capacity with some -- with that excess RBC.
Research Division</strong> Okay interesting.
That's helpful.
And then just a follow-up on your commentary Rich on the debt to capital or leverage ratio.
I thought the 25% ratio was frankly far less critical particularly given the DAC accounting changes that are getting implemented as of January 1.
And I thought the rating agencies were focused much more on interest coverage where you guys seem to be in excellent shape.
So you're telling us to focus on 25% target.
I just would look for some clarification on that.
Sure.
That 25.3 is before the DAC adjustment.
When we reduce the equity the 25.3 I'm not going to get it this perfect 26.4 maybe it goes up to 26.4 after the reduction and the denominator.
Now -- but there's also -- Eric is giving me a thumbs up maybe it's 27.
I just didn't remember.
Is it 27 Eric? Yes.
I'm sorry.
So it's 27.
And okay so we'll get a little hiatus on bringing that back down by the ratings agencies we are expecting but eventually that's got to work back down to 2.
But you make a great point.
Cash flow coverage is important but the -- when the ratio breaks through the 25 that also has a ripple effect on the cash flow coverage.
Now we still have cash flow coverages under our measures that meet our standards but there is strain on them when you push in 25 -- over 25.
And that coupled with the 27 optic even though it's an optic needs to be moderated.
Research Division</strong> So I guess the takeaway and my takeaway it seems to be that you get a relatively short-term period of time where the rating agencies don't respond to a higher than 25 but they expect you still nonetheless despite the accounting change to bring it back down over time? That's correct.
Can I just add one -- let me just add one point to that.
In an acquisition where there is cash flow provided by the earnings of that acquisition to cover the fixed charge coverage that you rightfully brought up that would bump up above the 25 dependent upon the cash flow coming with the acquisition.
And it's one of the things to think about.
Asset quality is very strong liquidity is very strong earnings power has a lot of momentum.
So it's one thing to think about and I think Rich explained it well.
Due to timing constraints our last question will come from Joanne Smith Scotiabank.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple questions.
The first is just as a follow-up to the discussion about nonbank SIFIs.
It just seems to me that there's a lot more going on than just nonbank SIFIs.
It seems like every time Geithner has a press conference he talks about all financial institutions being more regulated over time.
And I was just wondering if you could talk about that a little bit more in a broader context.
And then second just on the universal life I know that you're not concentrating heavily on Individual Life Insurance products anymore.
But given the fact that there were such strong sales in the quarter I hear a lot everybody has heard a lot about a lot of people increasing prices because of low interest rates.
And I'm wondering if you have already done that and so now you are kind of even with those that are just now raising prices.
I'm just wondering what the competitive dynamics are with respect to that and rising prices.
Let's start with the second question first.
Charlie? Sure.
It's actually a great story and that is you have the story exactly right.
In 2009 we raised prices twice in May and November both in term and our universal life and watched in 2010 our sales plummet as a result of that.
But we wanted to retain the profitability of the product as we saw going into these markets.
The reason why universal life has come back in terms of sales is that our competitors have begun to raise prices up to match ours.
So that when you look at our product and you spreadsheet our product as the financial advisors do we have gone from third quartile to second quartile in terms of pricing and therefore we have been able to sell more product.
But we have -- again it's a consistent story.
We have been consistent with sort of our anticipation of pricing and our aggressive repricing of product for the markets.
And both in Annuities and here and universal life you've seen our competitors kind of come up to match us.
And just quickly on your other question about more regulation in general.
Beyond the comments that our own Secretary of the Treasury has made there's a broader international view that some companies fell through the cracks in a sense as a result of inadequate group supervision.
And I think SIFI or not there will be an emerging group or holding company regulatory environment that we will have to deal with whether it comes from the franchise of our state regulators extended or from a federal entity here in the U.S.
or possibly even something that may emerge from the discussions about international regulation.
So I think that's a fact of life that will be a reality for us over the next few years whether we're a SIFI or not.
And again the most important concern that we have is that we have a regulatory regime that is sensitive to what our business models look like and what our financial dynamics are and ensure that we play on a level playing field but also balance risk and capital to make sure that the public policy needs to have stability and financial services are also met.
So I would say it's something we expect we think about we work on and it will be part of life for us however it emerges in terms of group or holding company supervision but I don't think we’ll be the end of the world.
We will manage through with our own financial targets probably more aggressive than the regulatory targets anyway.
Research Division</strong> Mark do you think that it just automatically means more capital requirements for the industry? And do you think that that could possibly go beyond say a 375% 400% RBC ratio as being the new standard? I don't think so.
I wouldn't make that kind of an abstract absolute statement.
I think it means there will be careful consideration of the dynamics of the balance sheet and the stress test which I think will ultimately be the cornerstone of the whole capital management regime.
But I think it's going to be carefully considered in the context of what's really there and how it moves.
So no I don't think it's an automatic add-on to the current benchmarks.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 1:30 p.m.
Central Standard Time today through February 16 2012 11:59 p.m.
Central Standard Time.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 225933.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Earnings for John Strangfeld [Prudential Financial Inc.]  [Operator Instructions] And I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Eric Durant.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Cynthia.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining our call.
Today's presenters are indeed John Strangfeld CEO; Rich Carbone Chief Financial Officer Mark Grier Vice Chairman.
Then joining John Rich and Mark for our Q&amp;A will be Charlie Lowrey Head of our U.S.
businesses; Ed Baird Head of our international businesses; and Peter Sayre Controller and Principal Accounting Officer.
Now this commercial.
In order to help you to understand Prudential Financial we will make some forward-looking statements in the following presentation.
It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today.
Additional information regarding factors that could cause such a difference appears in the section titled Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures of our earnings press release for the first quarter of 2011 which can be found on our website at www.investor.prudential.com.
In addition in managing our businesses we use a non-GAAP measure we call adjusted operating income to measure the performance of our Financial Services businesses.
Adjusted operating income excludes net investment gains and losses as adjusted and related charges and adjustments as well as results from divested businesses.
Adjusted operating income also excludes recorded changes in asset values that are expected to ultimately accrue to contract holders and recorded changes in contract holder liabilities resulting from changes in related asset values.
Our earnings press release contains information about our definition of adjusted operating income.
The comparable GAAP presentation and the reconciliation between the two for the quarter are set out in our earnings press release on our website.
Additional historical information relating to the company's financial performance is also located on our website.
John? Thank you Eric.
Hello everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
We had a strong and eventful first quarter.
Our earnings per share for the quarter increased 17% from last year's first quarter based on after-tax adjusted operating income of the Financial Services business.
We produced an annualized ROE of 11.4% for the quarter on the same basis.
GAAP book value per share reached $63.50 up 16% from a year ago.
In a few moments Rich and Mark will review the quarter with you in detail.
In brief our financial results are solid and broadly based and our sales and flows demonstrate excellent and continuing commercial momentum.
In our Annuities business our competitive position and expanding distribution have driven strong sales and flows leading to substantial growth of business with attractive returns.
In Asset Management we are benefiting from higher fees driven by growth in Assets Under Management as well as the absence of significant credit-related charges which affected results a year ago.
In our U.S.
Protection businesses results were down modestly from last year reflecting less favorable group disability claims experienced in the current quarter.
Our international businesses are producing sustained organic growth including an increasing contribution from Life Insurance Protection business sold through the bank channel at Gibraltar Life.
Current quarter results also include the first month of operations at the Star and Edison businesses we acquired in February.
The addition of these companies will significantly strengthen our franchise in Japan where we are already a market-leading farm life insurer.
In spite of the earthquake and tsunami disaster in Japan business integration is proceeding well in line with expectations and with no material surprises.
We applaud our dedicated staff in Japan as well as our associates in the U.S.
who have kept us on track through this difficult period.
Largely because of recent increases in Japanese and U.S.
interest rates our estimation of the earnings contribution over time of Star and Edison is modestly higher than our earlier expectations.
In April we reached agreement to sell our Global Commodities business in a transaction that is expected to close later this year.
When completed this transaction will free for redeployment approximately $400 million in capital.
Broadly on the subject of capital we are at a very strong position with both capacity and flexibility in capital deployment.
We are highly focused on capital management and we recognize the importance of capital deployment in the achievement of our 2013 ROE aspiration of 13% to 14%.
We look forward to a fulsome discussion of capital and capital management at our Investor Day next month.
And with that I will turn it over to Rich.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
As you've just heard from John's remarks and as you've seen from yesterday's release this was a good quarter.
Common stock earnings per share was $1.69 based on adjusted operating income a 17% increase over the $1.45 from the prior year.
The list of significant discrete items affecting current quarter results is fairly short and easy to digest.
Let's start with annuities.
Favorable markets resulted in a benefit of $0.06 per share from the release of a portion of our reserves to guaranteed minimum debt and income benefits and $0.03 per share from an unlocking that reduced amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs also from the result of favorable markets.
In International Insurance Gibraltar Life had a benefit of $0.22 per share for the partial sale of our indirect investment in the China Pacific Group.
Going the other way Prudential of Japan results include a charge of $0.03 per share representing our estimate of claims within the Japanese Life Planner business from the March earthquake and tsunami.
Since Gibraltar Life including the Star and Edison businesses report on a one-month lag basis their claims from the disaster estimated at about $55 million pretax or about $0.08 per share will be included in the second quarter results.
Gibraltar Life results also include transaction and integration costs related to the Star/Edison acquisition and amounted to $0.06 per share.
In total the items I just mentioned had a net favorable impact of about $0.22 on our earnings per share for the quarter.
Taking away this $0.22 from our reported results would bring EPS down to $1.47.
Analytically I would not stop there in analyzing our earnings.
In thinking about our operating performance for the current quarter I would note that our results include a full quarter of financing costs and share count dilution from the Star/Edison acquisition but only 1 month of earnings from these businesses.
If I extrapolate 1 month of results excluding onetime charges for Star/Edison over a full quarter that would equate to about $0.10 per share for the additional 2 months.
This would suggest a baseline EPS of $1.57.
Now moving on to GAAP results.
We reported net income of $589 million or $1.20 per share for the first quarter compared to $536 million or $1.15 per share a year ago.
GAAP pretax results include amounts characterized as net realized investment losses of $360 million in the quarter.
This amount reflects $364 million net decline in the value of derivatives and other items on our balance sheet driven by changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates during the quarter.
Impairments and credit losses were $96 million for the quarter including about $30 million for subprime holdings with the remainder spread across a number of asset classes.
Our general account subprime holdings and amortized costs were $3.1 billion as of the end of the quarter down from $4 billion a year ago.
The realized losses I mentioned totaling $460 million were partially offset by gains of $47 million from product-related hedging activities and net gains from other general portfolio activities.
Book value per share on a GAAP basis amounted to $63.50 at the end of the first quarter and this compares to $54.63 a year ago.
Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturities were $3.3 billion at the end of the quarter.
And we were in a net unrealized gain position of $4.6 billion.
Book value per share excluding unrealized investment gains and losses and pension and post-retirement benefits increased $5.84 from a year ago reaching $60.98 at the end of the quarter.
Now on to capital.
And I'm going to provide a little more detail than I have in the past to try and improve the transparency on this subject.
First I will focus on our insurance companies.
We are continuing to manage our insurance companies to capital levels consistent with what we believe are AA standards.
As of year end Prudential Insurance reported an RBC of 533% with total adjusted capital or TAC of $12 billion on a statutory basis.
Since RBC is an annual calculation I won't be providing an update for the quarter.
However I can tell you that the key drivers of statutory capital have not materially changed since year end and we have not taken a dividend from Prudential Insurance so far this year.
Our Japanese insurance companies will soon report solvency margins as of their fiscal year end.
We are confident that the solvency margins for both Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar will be comfortably above their benchmarks for AA ratings.
Since Star and Edison came to us adequately capitalized at closing the acquisition did not have a material impact on our overall capital position.
Now let's look at the overall capital position for the Financial Services businesses.
We benchmarked Prudential Insurance to a 400 RBC ratio.
We compare that -- we compare the $12 billion of tax that I just mentioned and reported at year end with the amount needed to produce a 400 RBC ratio.
That would mathematically work out to an excess of about $3 billion.
Adding that capital capacity at the --adding the capital capacity at the parent company and other subsidiaries to that PICA [The Prudential Insurance Company of America] excess I would estimate that total on-balance sheet capital over and above the amount we need for our target statutory capital ratios to be in the range of $4 billion to $4.5 billion.
This is based on year-end data and giving effect to the Star/Edison acquisition and the pending sale of Global Commodities which frees up about $400 million of capital.
All this capital the $4 billion to $4.5 billion would be available as a buffer in a stress situation.
However and this is more in line with how we have talked about capital in the past when we think about capital that is available for offensive purposes or market opportunities over the near term we consider the nature and volatility of items that affect statutory capital particularly that that resides in that excess the over $400 million.
These considerations influence our views of immediately spendable capital which is in the range of $2.2 billion to $2.7 billion again based on year-end RBC data and giving effect to the Star/Edison acquisitions and the pending sale of Global Commodities.
This view is comparable to how we have estimated the net on-balance sheet capital capacity or excess capital of $1.8 billion to $2.3 billion that we reported to you at the end of last year and in all prior periods.
The remainder of the $4 billion to $4.5.
billion the portion we don't count as immediately spendable is available as a buffer for stress scenarios and would be supplemented in those conditions by other contingent capital sources including certain committed lines and our capital hedge program.
Since many of the inputs and I mentioned this earlier since many of the inputs to our capital capacity are based on annual calculations I would not want to provide a current quarter update for this range other than to say we are comfortable that it has not materially changed through the end of the first quarter.
Now turning to the cash position at the parent company.
Cash and short-term investments at the parent excluding cash from short-term borrowings and commercial paper amounted to roughly $2.6 billion at the end of the first quarter.
We would expect to utilize a portion of this amount for tax payments and other operating purposes during the year.
After these uses we expect the remainder to exceed our $1 billion liquidity target which represents approximately 18 months of fixed charge coverage.
Now I'll turn it back over to Mark to review the businesses for the quarter.
Thank you Rich and John and hello everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
I'll start my  discussion with the U.S.
businesses.
Our Annuity business reported adjusted operating income of $292 million for the first quarter compared to $244 million a year ago.
The reserve true-ups and DAC unlocking that Rich mentioned had a net favorable impact of $59 million on current quarter results.
This includes a benefit of $40 million from the release of a portion of our reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits and a further benefit of $19 million from reduced amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs.
In both cases reflecting favorable market performance.
Results for the year-ago quarter included a net benefit of $99 million from a favorable DAC unlocking reserve true-ups and refinements related to reinsurance contracts.
Stripping out these items annuity results were $233 million for the current quarter compared to $145 million a year ago.
The $88 million increase and what I would consider underlying results reflects new business and the benefit of market performance on account values contributing to growing fees and lower guaranteed benefit costs.
Average variable annuity account values have increased by $23 billion from a year ago driven mainly by over $16 billion in net sales.
Essentially we have higher returns on a growing base.
Nearly all of our variable annuity sales include our highest daily or HD living benefit features.
And all of the variable annuity living benefit features we now offer come packaged with an auto-rebalancing feature where customer funds are reallocated to fixed income investments to support our guarantees in the event of market decline.
This product-based risk management limits the potential cost of our guarantees as well as the expense we incur to hedge equities and interest rate risks.
Auto-rebalancing performed well during the financial crisis protecting client account values from severe decline and effectively returning funds to client-selected investments as markets recovered.
At the trough of the market more than 3/4 of account values for our auto-rebalancing products had been moved to fixed income accounts by our algorithm which operates at the contract level on a daily basis.
As of the end of the first quarter less than 10% of account values subject to auto-rebalancing remained in the designated fixed income accounts.
As a result of strong sales driven by the popularity of our highest daily living benefit features both the profitability and the risk profile of our overall variable annuity book of business have been consistently improving.
Comparing the base earnings of $233 million for the current quarter with the year-ago base earnings of $145 million that I mentioned produces an increase of about 60% more than double the increase in average account values over the same period.
At the same time we are improving our risk profile.
The proportion of our variable Annuity business with living benefits that has our auto-rebalancing feature is nearly 80% as of the end of the first quarter.
This compares to about 70% a year earlier.
For the overall book of variable annuities auto-rebalancing now covers about 60% of account values compared to less than 1/2 a year ago and about 1/3 if we look back 2 years.
Our gross variable Annuity sales for the quarter reached a record high $6.8 billion compared to $4.9 billion a year ago with solid increases in each of our distribution channels independent financial planners buyer houses banks and insurance agents.
In late January we introduced the next generation of our Living Benefit product feature called Highest Daily Income or HDI.
This feature continues the basic design of our HD6 product including auto-rebalancing and other product-based risk management such as minimum age at purchase and asset allocation requirements.
But this product offers a 5% annual roll up for protected value rather than the 6% offered by our HD6 product and lower payouts at some age bands.
Fees for the rider were increased by 10 basis points for individuals to 95 basis points.
While it's reasonable to assume that a portion of our first quarter sales represented accelerated purchases due to the anticipated product changeover we believe our updated product is being well received in the marketplace and continues to offer a superior value proposition for clients focused on retirement income security.
The Retirement segment reported adjusted operating income of $172 million for the current quarter compared to $169 million a year ago.
Current quarter results benefited from higher fees driven by growth in account values both in Full Service Retirement and in the remainder of the business.
Overall Retirement account values were $215 billion at the end of the quarter up $31 billion from a year ago.
However higher expenses driven largely by non-linear items such as legal and business development costs largely offset the increase in fee income in the comparison of year-over-year results.
In Full Service Retirement gross deposits in sales were $4.8 billion in the current quarter compared to $5.6 billion a year ago.
We focus on the mid-to-large case market where RFP activity has been limited as employers have been focused on issues such as healthcare.
Net full-service flows were about breakeven for the quarter with persistency at a solid 96%.
Strong sales in the investment-only market where we have grown sales of stable value wrap products to plan sponsors on a stand-alone basis brought net additions for the overall Retirement business to $4.6 billion for the quarter compared to about $850 million a year ago.
The Asset Management segment reported adjusted operating income of $154 million for the current quarter compared to $83 million a year ago.
While most of the segment's earnings come from Asset Management fees more than half of the improvement for the quarter came from more favorable results from commercial mortgage activities.
Results for the year-ago quarter were negatively affected by credit and valuation charges amounting to roughly $30 million on interim loans we hold in the asset management portfolio.
These charges have abated as commercial real estate values have improved and current quarter results benefited from gains of about $15 million on sales of foreclosed properties where we realized more than the carrying value of the loans.
The remainder of the improvement in results came mainly from higher asset management fees driven by growth in Assets Under Management.
The segment Assets Under Management increased nearly $100 billion from a year ago including $15 billion of primarily U.S.
dollar general account assets from the Star and Edison acquisitions.
The remainder of the increase in Assets Under Management was driven by positive net flows in both Institutional and Retail business for each of the past 4 quarters as well as cumulative market appreciation.
Adjusted operating income for our Individual Life insurance business was $96 million for the current quarter compared to $91 million a year ago.
Mortality experience was less favorable in relation to our average expectations in both periods but improved in relation to the year-ago quarter driving the increase in results.
While mortality experience fluctuates from one quarter to another cumulative experience for the past 4 quarters has been essentially in line with our expectation.
The Group Insurance business reported adjusted operating income of $40 million in the current quarter compared to $53 million a year ago.
The decrease in earnings was driven by unfavorable results from Group Disability.
We are continuing to see an elevated incidence of new disability claims which more than offset the benefit of increased claim terminations in the current quarter.
Group Insurance sales for the quarter were $500 million including $392 million for Group Life.
This compares to a total of $346 million a year ago.
Most of our Group Insurance sales are recorded in the first quarter based on the effective date of the business.
Current quarter Group Life sales included a major case win which contributed about $180 million.
More than half of this sale and about 70% remaining Life sales in the quarter were voluntary business representing coverage purchased by employees or association members rather than employer-paid insurance.
Turning now to our International businesses.
Gibraltar Life's adjusted operating income was $342 million in the current quarter compared to $164 million a year ago.
As Rich mentioned Gibraltar's results for the current quarter include income of $153 million from the partial sale of our investment in China Pacific Group by the Carlyle consortium.
As of the end of the quarter our remaining investment in China Pacific has a cost of about $40 million with market appreciation of roughly $250 million which is included in the $4.6 billion of net unrealized gains on our balance sheet.
Going the other way Gibraltar's results for the quarter absorbed $39 million of transaction costs for the Star and Edison acquisitions that we closed in February and an additional $8 million of integration costs.
We continue to expect about $500 million of integration costs over a 5-year period to achieve targeted annual cost savings of $250 million after the business integration is completed.
We are of course in early days of the integration but it is off to a solid start and we have not experienced a major disruption from the disaster in Japan in March.
Excluding the China Pacific gain and the transaction in integration costs Gibraltar's adjusted operating income was up $72 million from a year ago.
This increase includes a contribution of $34 million from the initial month of operations of the acquired Star and Edison businesses higher net investment spreads reflecting growth of Gibraltar's fixed Annuity business and business growth driven by Protection products including the growing book of Life Insurance Protection business distributed through the bank channel.
Sales from Gibraltar Life based on annualized premiums in constant dollars were $347 million in the current quarter.
This represents an increase of $185 million from a year ago including $85 million from the first month of production through the distribution that came to us in the Star and Edison acquisitions and $100 million of organic growth in Gibraltar.
The Star/Edison acquisition brought us more than 7 000 new life advisors about 60 additional bank distribution relationships and an established independent agency channel with about 5 000 independent distributors.
The $85 million initial sales contribution included $23 million from the renewal of a large block of third-sector business sold through the independent agency channel.
The remaining $100 million of the sales increase excluding the Star and Edison contribution included $70 million from the bank channel driven mainly by sales of Life Insurance Protection products.
Sales through Resona Bank one of Japan's largest banks and a recently added distribution partner contributed about $25 million to current quarter sales.
Current quarter bank channel sales reflected accelerated purchases in advance of an announced rate increase on yen-denominated single premium whole life products which are popular in that channel.
The Life Advisor and independent agency channel's registered sales increases totaling $30 million excluding the Star and Edison contributions.
Current quarter sales benefited from strong demand for our recently introduced cancer whole life products.
Our Life Planner business reported adjusted operating income of $330 million for the current quarter compared to $327 million a year ago.
Current quarter results included a charge of $19 million representing our estimate of claims from the earthquake and tsunami in Japan.
Excluding this charge results were up $22 million from a year ago tracking continued business growth mainly in Japan.
Sales from our Life Planner operations based on annualized premiums in constant dollars were $286 million in the current quarter up $42 million or 17% from a year ago.
The increase was mainly driven by strong sales in Japan where we are benefiting from increased demand for Retirement income products and in Korea.
International Insurance sales on an all-in basis including Life Planners Life Advisors the bank channel and independent agency distribution were $633 million for the first quarter compared to $406 million a year ago.
Corporate and other operations reported a loss of $272 million for the current quarter compared to a $210 million loss a year ago.
The greater loss in the current quarter was mainly a result of higher expenses.
The expenses within Corporate and Other include non-linear items such as corporate advertising and benefit plan.
In addition interest expense on our capital debt increased from a year ago due to the $1 billion of debt financing we applied toward the Star and Edison acquisitions.
To sum up results from our U.S.
Retirement Solutions and Asset Management businesses are benefiting from sustained positive net flows driven by our strong competitive position and attractive value propositions.
Growth in account values and Assets Under Management is driving favorable comparisons to year-ago results and contributing to run-rate performance in those businesses.
Results from our U.S.
Protection businesses were negatively affected in the quarterly comparison by less favorable group disability results.
Our International businesses performed well and are benefiting from expanding distribution across multiple channels.
And the addition of the Star and Edison businesses we acquired in February has strengthened our market-leading business in Japan and enhanced our prospects for growth in a market where we have enjoyed sustained success based on serving lifetime financial security needs.
Thank you for your interest in Prudential.
And now we look forward to hearing your question.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Andrew Kligerman with UBS Securities.
First question so what's the game plan with the $2.2 billion to $2.7 billion? What can we expect with that over for the next -- for the balance of the year? Well Andrew I think that falls in the category of capital management capital deployment and our thinking around that and that's a subject matter we're intending to focus a lot of time and attention on in June.
Focus on it in June.
So you won't tell us whether you're going to use it for repurchases or dividend increase any time in the near term? June is near-term.
Join us in June and we'll discuss it then? That's what you're saying.
Okay? All right.
We'll move on.
Timing of sales in Japan given the terrible disruptions there what can we look for in the second quarter same thing with the shift from the HDI6 in the U.S.
to HDI5 (sic) [HD5] what do you think the second quarter's going to look like is there going to be a real slowdown there? Andrew this is Eric Durant.
First let me take the opportunity for me to express our sympathy to all of those affected by the extraordinary tragedy that you reference in Japan.
And as far as the second quarter I had the opportunity to be there last week and was pleasantly surprised to see that the momentum that we've now had more than 7 quarters averaging over 25% continues almost unabated so far into the second quarter.
And while obviously it's too soon to be giving numbers out I will tell you that the observations that I was able to make would be consistent with the momentum we've seen up until now.
And I would also say that that applies not only on sales but fortunately the progress that is being made regarding the integration in the merger.
Obviously for a couple of weeks there was enormous distraction there but all of the work teams reported again as recently as last week that they're either on schedule or close enough to it that they see no need for any shift in the target dates.
Andrew it's Charlie Lowrey.
In terms of HDI versus HD6 and what we expect in the second quarter I think it's fair to say that sales will be lower than they were in the first quarter.
We had a tremendous first quarter.
But the second quarter obviously won't incorporate the surge that we had in the first quarter which was about $1 billion.
Secondly HDI does have some different terms and there's additional competition coming into the market with product that tries to resemble our product which we believe is kind of a corroboration of our approach which we've been saying all along about the product we have in the marketplace.
The last thing I'd say and this is to the same quarter as well is that we don't look at market share specifically.
But what we do is to look at the profitability of our product going forward and the market share falls out where it may.
You've seen that in how we dealt with Individual Life and you'll see that with how we deal with Annuities as well.
So you are -- you're willing to let your absolute value your volume decline if it gets too competitive is what you're saying? Yes we will.
Okay.
And then just one last quick one.
In Asset Management you had that nice $15 million gain on the sale of foreclosed properties and I know in that division you've been de-risking you've reduced co-investments and seed capital interim loan businesses.
So just kind of looking out for the balance of the year can we expect gains like that $15 million gains in the upcoming quarters or should we modeling for basically nothing? It's an interesting question because within ITPICM which is the line you're referring to Investments Transactions Proprietary Investment and Capital Management there will be a little bit of lumpiness by definition that that occurs in this business.
So there will be some volatility.
What we've been trying to do over the course of the past couple of years is to lower the amplitude of that volatility as we go forward.
So I don't think it's fair to say that you won't see any.
But I think the degree of volatility you saw a couple of years ago has been significantly ameliorated and that you will see less volatility as we go forward.
Got it.
And I assume just based on what you're seeing in Commercial Real Estate that the -- I should err on the side of things being more positive? I think so.
In other words if you look at the past few quarters we've had foreclosures sales of foreclosed assets some of which have been positive some of which have been slightly negative.
But what that means is that we feel pretty good about the marks we have within the interim portfolio.
Our next question will come from the line of Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
First you mentioned the outlook for Star/Edison the earnings that modestly improved from your prior expectations.
Hoping we can put some numbers around just how much it improved.
Second with the effect of the regulatory backdrop one of your peers this morning expressed some optimism that the large insurers may escape systemically important designations what is it in your views? Also if you were to receive that designation how would that impact your capital flexibility would a 400% RBC ratio still be the right benchmark? And then last on corporate expenses while I think everyone appreciated that they were going to be up on higher debt comp and lower pension the magnitude of the increases are a lot larger I think than a lot of people expected.
So perhaps some additional color on those other non-linear factors that you mentioned leading to the escalation and what would you be thinking about as a good run rate moving forward? Yes Nigel it's Rich.
On Star/Edison we can keep this really simple.
Let's go back to when we announced the deal.
We said we thought accretion in 2012 would be about 5% driven off of a $0.40 EPS number.
Today now that we've finished our purchase accounting there are 2 things that are different.
One you know about we issued less shares and the second one you also know that rates went up.
So there's less of a discount -- there's less of a premium on the bonds that we need to amortize.
The impact of both of those 2 will give us about a $0.55 increase in EPS in 2012 or 7% accretion again based on -- and this is important it was based upon the average street estimate for 2012 that was outstanding back there when we announced the deal.
So $0.55 7% accretion 2012 versus 5% and $0.40 accretion in 2012.
Let me add -- you also asked --  I'm going hand it over to Mark in a second but Corporate and Other.
Corporate and Other has got a lot of cats and dogs in it.
This quarter may be a little high because we had some extra legal fees.
We had some extra philanthropic activities the tragic event in Japan.
We donated $5 million for that.
But if I was to moderate that a bit it would be maybe $10 million so the $272 million is down to $262 million.
I don't think it's worth counting the number of angels that can dance on the head of a pin here.
And then Nigel on the systemically important financial institution designation this could take the rest of the day if we wanted to.
I'll try to keep it short.
As you know winds are blowing both directions around thoughts on SIFI designation overall meaning how many should there be and how broad should the suite be that puts companies into that category with some arguments that there really aren't very many and some other arguments that the more the merrier.
So that's highly uncertain at this point.
I believe that there are very strong arguments that insurance companies should not be considered systemically important for the purposes of the regulatory intent but that debate has yet to play out.
So I would say we're unsure about the likely status and you'd stay tuned and see what the direction is in Washington over the next 6 or 8 months.
With respect to the practical consequence you mentioned the RBC ratio and that will lead to an important question about the ongoing role of the functional regulators relative to the Federal Reserve if we were designated a SIFI.
As you know having that designation would carry with it Federal Reserve regulation at the holding company with some notion of enhanced standards for companies that are SIFIs as opposed to the general company regulated by the Fed as a bank holding company.
I think the signals that we have indicate a pretty constructive approach to addressing the development and calibration of metrics that would be used to look at a company like Prudential if it were to become a SIFI.
So I'm optimistic that the thinking and the implementation will reflect an understanding of the differences between insurance companies and other financial institutions and that will also be an environment in which the functional regulators meaning the state who focus on those RBC numbers that you mentioned will also have an important role and then functional regulation of the insurance companies will remain more or less as it is.
So that's a long way of saying that I think the approach will be responsible and I would not expect a significant disruption to our earnings power in the event that we were designated a SIFI but I'd add that it is uncertain.
That's very helpful.
Our next question will come from the line of Suneet Kamath with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> I have a couple questions on your U.S.
Retirement business.
First on the Annuity business with regard to the $233 million of AOI sort of normalized for the first quarter I try to track this on a quarterly basis and I think the fourth quarter comparable number was around $199 million.
So sequentially those earnings went up by 17% and I think the average AUM was up less than that.
So I'm just trying to understand what's going on here.
I mean can you help us think about the ROAs [return on assets] as some of your competitors do maybe on the new products that you're offering relative to the old products or just trying to understand what's giving you such sort of positive operating leverage and then I'll have a follow-up.
I think the positive operating leverage just comes from the scale of which we're operating and the profitability of the products.
As I said earlier we don't go after market share per se.
What we really look at is risk-adjusted returns to us and obviously providing good product to the customers.
And I think as a result of that we look at the profitability of the product and we're pleased with that.
And the other part in there the margin is going to expand because as the balances grow and the future profitability expectation increases and you guys know this it came back to drops [ph] and DAC amortization reduces over time.
So that will add to the margin expansion.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And any color around the actual ROAs of the new business versus the old business because we can't see the equity that you allocate to this business on a quarterly basis.
So I'm wondering if you can maybe provide the return on assets? Sure.
Let me do that in terms of as we think about it if it's okay with you the return on equity.
But the question really is how do we think about the business.
And we think about it in terms of 3 different cohorts.
We have the legacy kind of non-algorithmic business.
We then have the HD series or the legacy HD series and then the HDI.
And given the interest rate increases that have taken place the increases in the equity markets and the decreases in the VIX or the volatility we've been -- this has been a very good environment for us.
So we're happy with the legacy business and that's a non-algorithmic business where we expect low to mid-teens returns on that business.
We're very happy with the HD series especially the surge business where we expect to hit targeted returns of mid-to-high teens.
And we're even happier with the HDI product that we're writing now which is exceeding our return expectations.
Inc.</strong> Okay and that's all predicated on a 2% market appreciation per quarter kind of number? Yes.
Inc.</strong> Okay got it.
And then my follow-up question my second question is on the Retirement business the Institutional side.
What is driving those net flows in Institutional products? They're quite strong in the past couple of quarters.
And I know rates are up a little bit but I just kind of thought about this as a very rate-sensitive businesses.
And I'm just wondering where that new business is coming from if you could just maybe put some color around the products and maybe some of the spreads that you're getting there? Sure.
Well this is the investment-only stable value product really and it's more fee-based than spread-based.
But this is the case I think where we have jumped into a vortex that was left when banks and some insurance companies left the market in terms of stable value.
And we and a couple of other firms jumped in the business when we thought we could get very good risk-adjusted returns and so we've taken a business from 0 to $23 billion in about 18 to 24 months.
We entered a very good business which has given the rates that we can charge and that we think are appropriate very good risk-adjusted returns for us that are accretive to ROE substantially accretive to ROE.
Inc.</strong> And so that's like on a 15% kind of ROE business that you're writing? We're not going to be more specific than Charlie just was Suneet.
But substantially is an important word in that sentence.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
And the guys that have exited the business I mean I was talking to another major player in that business and they were saying that they actually have seen some new entrants former players actually come back in are you seeing anything like that? We're seeing discussion of former players come back in but we really haven't seen a lot of those players come back in.
I mean these were some of the investment banks it was AIG it was others.
There's talk of some of them coming in but we still see a very good deal flow.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Our next question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR Capital Markets.
Great.
I wanted to ask about your outlook for debt maturities.
They're fairly significant.
I think it's around $468 million in '11 and then $850 million in '12.
A lot of folks have focused in on the Moody's debt-to-cap ratio and maybe that focus has been overdone relative to coverage and other items.
So just wanted to get a thought on how you're planning to proceed with those and if we should think about you retiring or putting down those debt obligations as it relates to capital management? Yes the $350 million of capital debt maturing in December we will refinance that in December or prior.
We may pre-refund it.
We don't intend on paying that down and you got -- you're right it's about $850 million.
In 2012 half of that is operating debt and about half of that is capital debt.
The capital debt will be refinanced the operating debt it depends upon the business conditions at the time.
We are focused on the Moody's ratio but we're not wedded to it.
We're focused more on our cash flow capabilities at the holding company to service our debt and to have a cushion against servicing all our debt.
That's very helpful and just one other quick detail on capital management.
I know that last year there was a large payment up from PICA to the holdco [holding company] in the second quarter.
Is that a regular occurrence? Should we expect to see something similar in the second quarter of 2011? We have made an application to the State Insurance Department for a $1.2 billion dividend and we expect a piece of which is extraordinary and a piece of which is ordinary.
The ordinary is just by way of application.
But the other one requires approval.
We expect approval.
That's $1.2 billion within the next couple of months.
And part of the scheduling answer Randy is that yes that's typically when we do it.
Okay.
So that's up in the second quarter.
And then one more if I could just back to the big -- kind of the bigger excess capital number meaning the $4.5 billion.
$3 billion was I think you said at PICA and then $1 million to $1.5 million was in other places.
Can you break out where the $1 million and the $1.5 million is kind of versus I guess it would be holdco cash or in Japan? That's where it is.
It's holdco cash and Japan and the larger piece of it would be at the parent.
Our next question comes from the line of Ed Spehar with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Two questions.
Rich I appreciate the additional color on capital.
But going back to the comments when you talk about an excess capital number of $4 billion to $4.5 million and then you talk about a spendable capital number of $2.2 billion to $2.7 billion with the comment that the difference is the buffer for stress scenarios.
The question is why isn't that then just considered a 480% RBC requirement because what is the environment where you don't carry the buffer for stress scenarios? And if it is 480% I mean are you pricing your business based on a 480% RBC ratio and then I have one follow-up.
Let me flip your terminology there Ed.
The total capital capacity is the $4 billion to $4.5 billion.
The excess capital is the $2.2 billion to the $2.7 billion.
That difference in between the number that you've thrown out the 400% and let's make believe the 480%.
Add those assets that are supporting that capital become cash they're going to drop into the excess capital capacity.
We're not holding 480%.
So let me explain it by way of example.
There are a couple of items that count in our statutory capital that are included in the calculation and let's call the calculation the gross capital capacity.
But they're not readily spendable or said another way the cash flows are not predictable.
So because they're not predictable we're not putting them into the excess capital number but they're going to turn into cash.
Some of these items are subject to -- also some of them get volatile.
They bounce around.
The easiest example is the deferred tax asset.
A benefit for RBC but not immediately collectible in cash but will turn into cash over time.
As that asset turns into cash and it gets monetized it's going into the excess capital number.
If we have none of that stuff above 400% all of the capital above 400% is going in that $2.2 billion to $2.7 billion number.
I guess Rich to me that's a very different explanation than saying the difference is a buffer for stress scenarios.
I think that's a very different answer.
The difference is not a buffer for stress scenarios.
It is not intentional.
It's just there now.
And so if something happens it's going to chew up the deferred -- the first thing it's going to chew up it's going to chew up that sort of I hate to use the word the non-cash projections of capital above the 480%.
It's not an intentional buffer.
It's just coincidental at this point in time.
If it goes away and everything above that 400% is -- the cash flows are predictable or all of the attributes above the 400% that's going in the excess.
And the observation that Rich made that it would be available as a buffer is a nuance that I think maybe the difference between  the way you're thinking about it right now and the way Rich is talking about it it would been available.
In an RBC world in a stress scenario if you're calculating RBC that's in it.
It's not being intentionally kept.
If all of those DTAs [deferred tax asset] became cash and all of the DTAs got us to 400% but above that was all cash assets they're going in the excess capital of $2.2 billion to $2.7 billion and bumping that up.
So in its current form it wouldn't be viewed as being spendable but it would be viewed as being a buffer.
Over time it converts from the one to the other.
Yes.
I don't mean to belabor this I am not holding that as extra capital for contingency.
Okay I think that is very good news.
I'm not sure that that's been -- it's well understood.
And I guess maybe to follow-up then on that how quickly does that $2 billion number sort of convert to cash? Well that's part of the problem right? Because the biggest piece being the DTA okay so we've got a deferred tax asset on the books where did it come from? It came mainly from those book losses the losses we took for book purposes in 2009 right? But they didn't hit the tax return.
So we didn't get a real reduction from them yet.
So we stuck up a DTA.
As we sell those assets or there is bankruptcy they will become tax deductions and that asset will monetize.
We believed up until now the intrinsic value of those assets was greater than the market.
So we didn't sell them.
We can trigger that DTA and get the cash when we know the intrinsic value and the market value are the same.
So it's not going to be forever.
I mean just to follow-up there's really no reason for you if you believe that there's intrinsic value there obviously there's no reason to do anything until the cash piece is gone correct? But I mean the ability to turn the whole thing to cash if you want is -- it's there if I'm understanding this correctly?.
Yes.
Yes that's correct.
We have time for one final question and that will be from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
I think this is the second quarter in a row I'm getting in under the wire.
So Rich I just wanted to follow up real quick on the extrapolation you did for the additional $0.10 as we look out to the following quarter and adding the extra 2 months of Edison/Star.
I guess just a couple of quick questions on that one does that mean we should assume that integration costs will remain at around $50 million quarterly? And then secondly I just want to also confirm that that does not contemplate any synergies in those estimates yet.
Let me let Ed talk about the synergies.
But the lion's share of the onetime cost in the first quarter which is why I am loathe to annualize them and Ed knows better than I how are they going to come in was the transaction costs.
Now those transaction costs obviously go away but they're going to get replaced by real integration costs and Ed may have a better...
The other thing I'd add to that John just to jump in is when Rich described what he did-- this is John -- we're not authoring our point of view regarding the economics of the outlook of Star/Edison in terms of its operating attributes.
What we were describing earlier was the change associated with the different share assumption and associated with the [indiscernible] Understood.
Just to say this one [ph] John I think that the real economic that you need to focus on is the improvement in the accretion from 5% to 7%.
And Ed maybe you want  to talk about where the onetime costs are going to...
Just to remind people what those numbers are the onetime expense is $500 million spread over the 5 years and the expense synergies savings are $250 million once we hit the run rate.
Those are not spread.
I just want to get back to your assumption.
They're not spread evenly quarter-by-quarter.
So no you can't put in a flat 50 or whatever number because they're not that level.
They're more lumpy than that.
And the expense synergies start to really kick in in a material way next year in 2012 not in 2011.
Okay.
And just if I recall on the $500 million of costs I believe you guys indicated that about $400 million of that $500 million would be spent between the periods 2011 and '12.
And so it seems to me that in the costs that you guys bore in the first quarter results the vast majority of the transaction costs we've really seen very little at all yet of the true integration costs correct? That's correct yes.
That's right.
Then I guess just the -- and not to belabor the point on the $2.2 billion to $2.7 billion but if I think about that and I compare that to the year-end numbers that you provided us $1.8 billion to $2.3 billion so we're up about $400 million that's maybe coincidentally maybe not the $400 million that's freeing up from the commodities business sales.
Should I -- in other words do we read into that that your first quarter results didn't produce any excess capital? I suppose that could be the case given a very strong organic growth but maybe you can comment? No.
You can't because I was giving out all that information as of 12/31 12/31/10.
The original assumption that the difference -- the only difference I did was that is -- I added the $400 million from Global Commodities.
That is not an estimate for 3/31/2011.
And you're correct in assuming that there was earnings and other stuff's happening.
I was trying.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen today's conference call will be available for replay after 1:30 p.m.
today until midnight May 12.
You may access the AT&amp;T TeleConference Replay System by dialing (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 194706.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
And those numbers once again (800) 475-6701 or  (320) 365-3844 and enter the access code of 194706.
That concludes your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the second quarter 2011 earnings teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I'll now turn the conference over to Eric Durant Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much Good morning.
Thank you for joining our call.
We look forward to spending a productive hour with you.
Before we begin some housekeeping.
In order to help you to understand Prudential Financial we will make some forward-looking statements in the following presentation.
It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today.
Additional information regarding factors that could cause such a difference appears in the section titled Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures of our earnings press release for the second quarter of 2011 which can be found on our website at www.investor.prudential.com.
In addition in making our business -- in managing our businesses we use a non-GAAP measure we call adjusted operating income to measure the performance of our Financial Services businesses.
Adjusted operating income excludes net investment gains and losses as adjusted and related charges and adjustments as well as results from divested businesses.
Adjusted operating income also excludes recorded changes in asset values that are expected ultimately to accrue to contract holders and recorded changes in contract holder liabilities resulting from changes in related asset values.
Our earnings press release contains information about our definition of adjusted operating income.
The comparable GAAP presentation and the reconciliation between the 2 for the quarter are set out in our earnings press release on our website.
Additional historical information relating to the company's financial performance is also located on our website.
Participants in this call from Prudential include John Strangfeld CEO; Mark Grier Vice Chairman; Rich Carbone Chief Financial Officer; Peter Sayre Controller and Principal Accounting Officer; Charlie Lowrey Head of our U.S.
businesses; and Ed Baird Head of our international businesses.
John Strangfeld will kick things off with his presentation.
John? Thank you Eric and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
We had strong results for the second quarter both in earnings and on underlying fundamentals.
As reported our earnings per share nearly doubled from last year's second quarter based on adjusted operating income of the Financial Services business.
In a moment Rich and Mark will review the quarter with you more extensively.
In brief our results reflect solid business performance virtually across the board.
Market conditions were generally favorable over the last year but strong fundamentals and good execution are driving our results more than favorable markets.
I'll mention a few highlights.
In individual annuities and retirement account values reached record highs $116 billion for annuities $221 billion for retirement.
In annuities strong sales and net flows reflecting the value proposition of our HD products as well as our consistent presence in the market have driven sustained growth of quarter results.
In retirement our flows reflect strong sales and stable value wrap products and current quarter sales also include 2 groundbreaking transactions in the emerging defined-benefit risk transfer market.
Our Asset Management business achieved a new high for Assets Under Management of $583 billion.
Sustained growth in AUM is leading to a greater contribution from core fee-based earnings.
International Insurance had exceptional sales of $737 million up 76% from a year ago based on annualized new business premiums in constant dollars.
This result includes sales from the acquired Star/Edison operations.
Even without that contribution international sales would still be 30% higher than a year ago.
Organic growth both in our Life Planner business and Gibraltar Life is producing higher earnings and early contributions from Star/Edison are solid.
I'll wrap up with a few comments on return on equity which we consider to be the most telling measure of financial performance and the yardstick we manage to above all others.
Our ROE in the first half is 11% based on annualized adjusted operating income for the Financial Services businesses.
This compares to our aspiration of 13% to 14% by 2013.
We believe that our aspiration is made possible by virtue of an attractive mix of high-quality and well-led businesses.
In particular I would like to highlight that there are 3 key elements to getting from where we are today to our 2013 aspiration.
Number one is continued strong performance of our high ROE businesses namely Asset Management Annuities and International.
Each of these businesses recorded outstanding results in the second quarter as Rich and Mark will discuss in a moment.
Number two is successful integration of Star/Edison.
In spite of the earthquake and tsunami disaster in Japan business integration is proceeding well in line with expectations and with no material surprises.
We continue to expect eventual expense savings of $250 million a year and we remain excited by the opportunity to generate higher sales through the expanded distribution provided by Star and Edison.
We applaud and thank our dedicated staff in Japan as well as their associates in the U.S.
who have overcome extraordinary challenges to keep us on track through this difficult time in Japan.
And number three is effective capital deployment.
Through organic growth or acquisitions or through return of excess capital to investors quite probably it will be through the use of each of these levers.
And as we announced in June our board has authorized share repurchases of up to $1.5 billion through June of next year.
We have been buying shares under this authorization since the beginning of July.
With that I'd like to hand the baton to Rich Carbone.
Rich? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
As you've seen from yesterday's release and as you just heard from John this is another strong quarter for us.
We reported common stock earnings per share of $1.71 in the second quarter based on adjusted operating income for the Financial Services businesses and this compares to $0.88 per share for the comparable quarter of a year ago.
A list of significant discreet items affecting the current quarter is fairly short.
In Annuities business flat equity markets caused our account value performance to fall short of our assumptions resulting in a charge of $0.03 per share for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits and $0.02 per share related to DAC amortization.
In International Insurance results includes net charges of $0.07 per share for claims and expenses from the March earthquake and tsunami in Japan.
Since Gibraltar Life including the acquired Star and Edison businesses report earnings of a one-month lag its claims and expenses from the disaster are included in this quarter's results along with the revised estimate of these costs for the Japanese life plans which made its accrual in the first quarter.
Gibraltar Life results also include integration costs of $0.04 per share relating to the Star/Edison acquisition.
Going the other way the Asset Management business had a benefit of $0.09 per share from the partial sale of an international real estate feed investment.
In total the items I just mentioned had a net unfavorable impact of about $0.07 per share on our earnings for the second quarter.
Adding back the net charges of $0.07 per share to our reported results would bring EPS to $1.78 for the quarter.
Our results in the year-ago quarter included net charges of $0.49 per share from the unfavorable unlockings and reserve strengthenings largely driven by the 12% decline in the S&amp;P 500 in that quarter.
Taking these items out of both the current and year-ago quarters we produce an EPS increase of about 30% driven largely by organic business growth improved financial markets and the initial contribution of the Star and Edison earnings.
Now moving on to GAAP results of the Financial Services businesses we reported net income of $831 million or $1.68 per share in the second quarter compared to $798 million or $1.70 per share a year ago.
GAAP net income for the current quarter includes amounts characterized as net realized investment losses of $11 million pretax or a charge of about $0.02 per share.
And this compares to a $620 million pretax realized investment gains or $1.32 per share in the year-ago quarter which was driven largely by market value changes in derivatives related to product hedging and other portfolio management activities.
The $11 million of current quarter net realized investment losses reflects both impairments and credit losses of about $187 million.
Half of which came from impairments related to currency exchange rates and declines in equity values with the remainder resulting mainly from credit issues including $28 million related to our subprime holdings.
Our general accounts' subprime holdings were $2.9 billion based on amortized cost as of the end of the quarter down from $3.8 billion a year ago.
These impairments and credit losses were essentially offset by net gains from general portfolio activities as well as $62 million gains from product-related hedging activities.
Book value per share on a GAAP basis amounted to $68.09 at the end of the quarter and this compares to $59.94 of a year earlier.
Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturities stood at $3.1 billion at the end of the quarter and we were in the net unrealized gain position of $7 billion.
Book value per share excluding unrealized investment gains and losses and pension and post-retirement benefits increased $6.16 from a year ago reaching $62.97 at the end of this quarter.
Now turning to the capital picture.
We continue to manage our insurance companies to capital levels consistent with we believe are AA standards.
And as we've said in the past we benchmarked Prudential Insurance to a 400 RBC ratio.
We began the year with an RBC ratio of 533%.
During the second quarter Prudential Insurance paid $1.2 billion dividend to the holding company Prudential Financial Inc.
While this dividend had no impact on our overall capital position it did reduce the statutory capital position of Prudential Insurance essentially moving excess capital to the parent which enhanced our capital flexibility.
Given the effect of the dividend if we would -- if we were reporting RBC for Prudential Insurance as of June 30 we believe that it would be comfortably above the 400 level.
In Japan Prudential in Japan Gibraltar Life Star and Edison each reported solvency margins as of their fiscal year end March 31 2011 comfortably above their benchmarks for AA rating standards.
Now in estimating our excess on balance sheet capital for the Financial Services business we compare the statutory capital in Prudential Insurance to our benchmark of 400 RBC ratio and then add the excess capital held at the parent and other subsidiaries.
And as Mark told you at our Investor Day in June our estimate of our on-balance sheet excess capital was in the range of $4 billion to $4.5 billion as of December 31 2010.
And that was after adjusting for the subsequent Star/Edison acquisition and our sale of the Global Commodities business which closed on July 1.
Also we discussed -- we view as we discussed we view $2.2 billion to $2.7 billion of our excess on balance sheet capital as readily redeployable.
Now I can say that our capital position has improved since year end both available and total because many of the inputs to our statutory capital are based on annual calculations.
I will not be providing the specific current quarter update for these numbers.
As you know we announced the $1.5 billion share repurchase program in June.
This program provides us with the means of returning excess capital to shareholders and we commenced repurchases in July under the program which is authorized through June 30 of next year.
Turning to the capital position of the parent.
Cash and short-term investments at the parent company net of short term borrowings and commercial paper amounted to roughly $4.5 billion as of the end of the second quarter.
This represents an increase of about $2 billion for March 31 driven mainly by the dividend paid by Prudential Insurance and returns of capital from several other operating units.
We continue target maintaining $1 billion of liquidity of the parent.
The excess of our capital position over this $1 billion target is available to fund operating units and to be redeployed over time including share repurchases.
And now Mark will cover our business results.
Thank you John and Eric and good morning good afternoon good evening or good night.
I'll start with our U.S.
businesses.
Our Annuity business reported adjusted operating income of $221 million for the second quarter compared to a loss of $131 million a year ago.
The reserve true ups and back unlocking that Rich mentioned had a net unfavorable impact of $36 million on current quarter results.
This includes the charge of $20 million to strengthen our reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits and a further charge of $16 million from increased amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs.
In both cases reflecting market performance in the quarter this fell short of our assumptions.
Results for the year-ago quarter included a net charge of $284 million from an unfavorable back unlocking and reserve true ups largely driven by the equity market downturn in that quarter.
Stripping out these items annuity results were $257 million for the current quarter compared to $153 million a year ago for an increase of $104 million.
These results translate to a return of 89 basis points on average asset account values for the current quarter compared to 70 basis points a year ago.
Essentially we have higher returns on a growing base with results benefiting from the addition of profitable business over the past year lapsing of lower margin older business and account value appreciation driving higher fees and lower benefit costs.
Our gross variable annuity sales for the quarter amounted to $4.5 billion.
This compares to $5.3 billion a year ago and represents a decline as we expected from the $6.8 billion of gross sales we recorded in the first quarter.
Our sales are driven by the strong value proposition of our highest daily protected value feature which clearly differentiates our product coupled with a proven contract-level auto-rebalancing mechanism that has performed well through the financial crisis and beyond.
Our take-up rate for Highest Daily Living Benefit packaged with auto-rebalancing has been 90% or better for our variable annuity sales over the past 4 quarters.
In recent years our sales have also been bolstered by dislocations in the marketplace and some competitors have trimmed features or exited the space.
We are now seeing a number of competitors revamping their products.
In some cases leading to an initial surge in sales.
In doing so a majority of our mainline competitors have followed our lead by introducing some form of account value protection embedded in product design.
Many of these new products implement this protection at the fund level and require investment in a very limited set of funds.
This differs from our contract-level approach which is tailored to each client's account composition and guarantee profile.
and therefore allows us to offer a broader choice of investments within the asset allocation programs that are required for our living benefit guarantees.
I would also note that our experience with auto-rebalancing goes back to 2003 and has been a core element of our product designs for nearly 5 years since we introduce the highest daily products to the marketplace.
As of June 30 about 80% of our account values with living benefits and over 60% of our entire book of variable annuities has our auto-rebalancing feature.
While changes in the marketplace can cause some lumpiness in our sales from one quarter to another we feel that the consistency of our value proposition based on highest daily value and auto-rebalancing and our commitment to the market give us a sustained competitive advantage.
The Retirement segment reported adjusted operating income of $173 million for the current quarter compared to $137 million a year ago.
Current quarter results benefited from higher fees driven by growth in account values both in Full Service Retirement and in Institutional products.
Overall retirement account values were $221 billion at the end of the quarter up $40 billion from a year ago.
Higher net investment spreads reflecting crediting rate reductions we implemented earlier this year also contributed to the improvement in results.
In Full Service Retirement gross deposits in sales were $4.1 billion in the current quarter about flat with a year ago.
Industry case turnover continues to be slow in the mid-to-large case market which is our main focus.
We have done well in retaining existing business in this environment with net full-service flows at about breakeven for the quarter and persistency at a solid 96%.
Gross sales of Institutional products were $5.6 billion for the quarter up from $3.7 billion a year ago.
The increase was mainly driven by sales of stable value wrap products to plan sponsors on a stand-alone basis.
Current quarter sales included 2 groundbreaking basis in the emerging defined-benefit risk-transfer market where we are developing innovative solutions to help plan sponsors manage the risks of defined-benefit pension plan.
These sales totaling about $250 million included a longevity reinsurance case and a pension plan buy-in of a specially-designed annuity product.
While this market is in its infancy we see this as a long-term opportunity where will -- where we will be among just a few companies that can offer these solutions.
Overall net additions to the Retirement business were $4.1 billion for the quarter compared to about $2 billion a year ago.
The Asset Management segment reported adjusted operating income of $227 million for the current quarter compared to $124 million a year ago.
Current quarter results benefited from a $61 million gain on the sale of 80% of our interest in a real estate property that we acquired as a seed investment and have had on the books for several years.
Excluding that gain results were up $42 million from a year ago.
About 1/3 of that increase came from more favorable results from commercial mortgage activities reflecting loan payoffs during the quarter where we realized more than the carrying amount of the loans.
The remainder of the improvement in results came mainly from higher Asset Management fees driven by growth in Assets Under Management.
The segments Assets Under Management increased nearly $100 billion from a year ago including $15 billion of primarily U.S.
dollar general account assets from the Star and Edison acquisition.
The rest of the increase in Assets Under Management was driven by cumulative market appreciation and about $31 billion of positive net flows in Institutional and Retail business over the past year.
Adjusted operating income for our Individual Life Insurance business was $130 million for the current quarter compared to $88 million a year ago.
Results for the year-ago quarter included charges of about $30 million to accelerate amortization of DAC and other items driven by unfavorable separate account performance linked to the 12% decline in the S&amp;P 500 in that quarter.
For the current quarter overall separate account performance which reflects the equity and fixed-income investments underlying our variable life policies did not have a significant impact on results.
Excluding the impact of market performance results were up about $10 million from a year ago driven mainly by more favorable mortality experience.
Sales amounted to $68 million for the current quarter up from $61 million a year ago.
The increase came mainly from third-party sales of our universal life insurance products as our relative competitive position has improved.
The Group Insurance business reported adjusted operating income of $49 million in the current quarter compared to $32 million a year ago.
The increase came mainly from more favorable group life underwriting results.
Group Insurance sales for the quarter were $52 million compared to $42 million a year ago.
Most of our Group Insurance sales are recorded in the first quarter based on the effective date of the business.
Turning now to our International businesses.
Gibraltar Life's adjusted operating income was $244 million in the current quarter compared to $175 million a year ago.
Current quarter results include charges of $56 million representing our estimate of claims and expenses for Gibraltar including Star and Edison from the earthquake and tsunami in Japan.
As rich mentioned this is a second quarter event for Gibraltar due to the one-month reporting lag.
In addition Gibraltar's results for the quarter absorbed $29 million of integration costs for the Star and Edison acquisition.
Excluding the impact of the earthquake and tsunami and the integration costs Gibraltar's adjusted operating income was up $154 million from a year ago.
This increase includes the contribution of $113 million from the operations of the acquired Star and Edison businesses.
The increase also includes higher -- reflects higher net investment spreads mainly reflecting growth of Gibraltar's fixed Annuity business and includes business growth driven by protection products including the growing book of Life Insurance Protection business distributed through the bank channel.
Sales from Gibraltar Life based on annualized premiums and constant dollars were $499 million in the current quarter.
This represents an increase of $277 million from a year ago including $84 million of organic growth driven largely by the bank channel and $193 million from production through the distribution that came to us in the Star and Edison acquisitions including about $80 million from independent agents.
As part of the business integration we are adapting the products sold through the Star and Edison distribution systems to align with Gibraltar's Product portfolio.
These changes may lead to some sales lumpiness from time to time.
In the current quarter about $30 million of the independent agency channel sales came from a Star/Edison term insurance product for which we are implementing revisions.
Our Life Planner business reported adjusted operating income of $346 million for the current quarter compared to $291 million a year ago.
Current quarter results included a benefit of $6 million from an update of our estimate of claims and expenses from the earthquake and tsunami in Japan.
Excluding this item results were up $49 million from a year ago tracking continued business growth mainly in Japan to gather with more favorable mortality and lower expenses.
Sales from our Life Planner operations based an annualized premiums in constant dollars were $238 million in the current quarter up $41 million or 21% from a year ago.
The increase was driven mainly by strong sales in Japan where we are benefiting from increased demand for retirement income products and in Korea.
Corporate and Other operations reported a loss of $231 million for the current quarter compared to a $180 million loss a year ago.
The greater loss in the current quarter was mainly a result of higher expenses.
The expenses within Corporate and Other include non-linear items such as corporate advertising.
To sum up in our Annuities business a distinctive and consistent value proposition together with a steady commitment to the market have driven a growing book of profitable business with an improving risk profile leading to solid growth in core results.
The Retirement results benefited from higher fees driven by growth in account values along with greater investment spread income.
In Asset Management strong net flows have contributed to a growing base of a Assets Under Management leading to higher fee-based core results.
Current quarter results also benefited from a gain on a sale of our real estate seed investment that increased in value over our holding period.
Our U.S.
Protection businesses performed well in the quarter with more favorable mortality compared to a year ago in both Individual Life and Group Life.
In our international operations results benefited from continued organic growth both in our Life Planner businesses and Gibraltar Life along with a solid contribution for this early period from the Star and Edison businesses that we acquired in February.
Sales are benefiting from continued expansion of the bank channel and the additional distribution opportunities that came to us with the Star and Edison acquisition where business integration is on track.
Thank you for your interest in Prudential.
Now we look forward to hearing your questions.
A couple of questions on capital and then one on the Full Service businesses if I could.
Starting with capital if I take the $2.2 billion to $2.7 billion of immediately expendable capital back out the $1.5 billion of buyback that still leaves you with mid-point $950 million of I guess immediately deployable capital that as of right now you've not talked about immediately deploying.
So I'm just wondering is that $950 million earmarked for potential dividend increase or acquisitions or is there something that would preclude you from using that sooner rather than later? There's nothing that would preclude use from using sooner rather than later.
It's not restricted in any way but we don't have any intended use for it at this point in time.
And I guess why is that the case? We don't see any opportunities at this point and we've announced the buyback program that we think is sufficient at this point.
Okay.
And then on the buyback program I guess in years past your annual buybacks have been relatively stable over a course of a given year roughly the same amount per quarter.
Given kind of how your stock is trading in the ROE upside that you see would you imagine that pattern of stability continues or would you expect to be more opportunistic based on how the stock is trading? I know how we did this in the past.
Going forward we'll disclose our buybacks at the end of each quarter.
I really think that's a better way to handle this disclosure.
Okay.
And then the last question is just on the full-service business.
We talked about this a little bit at Investor Day and then follow-on conversations.
But I think it's a fair comment and some others have raised that  the full-service business commentary at Investor Day was probably a little less enthusiastic relative to past Investor Days.
And we talked about this with Principal earlier this week and they are clearly as enthusiastic to use their words as they've ever been.
So I was just wondering if you could provide some thoughts in terms of what you're seeing there.
Is it really a change in your view of this business or how should we think about kind of growth going forward? Is it just tied to the economy and things will resume once the economy picks up or any additional thoughts would be helpful? Sure and I'll be happy to do this.
This is Charlie.
A couple of things.
We are mainly in the mid- to large-case market.
And what we're seeing there -- I'll give you some context and then something specific to what we're doing.
But the context is that we see very low new plan formation so not a lot of our fees out in the marketplace.
There is low industry turnovers so you see a lot of us including our sales with very strong persistency numbers.
And finally plan sponsors continue to be distracted in terms of their focus on healthcare and other things.
So with that as context there aren't a lot of plans coming up for renewal or -- out in the marketplace.
There's a lot of check bidding going on where plan sponsors will look at go out and check the prices.
But they don't want to move the plan.
Now in terms of our own business I think we're exhibiting a fair amount of discipline and then we're targeting specific ROEs and hurdle rates.
And as a result we'll take a look at the business we have and the business that's out there but will at times decline the bid on or that lapse business that doesn't meet hurdles.
So what you're seeing is fairly flat flows but that's in part due to the context and in part due to the discipline that we're showing.
So bottom line you are seeing some irrational pricing in the market these days? We're seeing very aggressive pricing especially on the record-keeping full-service side of things.
So I don't know if it's irrational or not I won't comment on that but we are very disciplined in terms of what we'll bid on and what we will let lapse.
Understood.
And is that coming from other insurance companies or more asset managers or any color there? Not particularly.
It's coming from all over.
So there are a lot of different players in this marketplace and you see different kinds of firms bidding on different kinds of business.
Question on Edison/Star.
In the second quarter the earnings contribution excluding integration costs was about 10% higher than what I think the one month of the first quarter would have implied if I'd run rated that for a 3-month period of time.
I don't know if there's anything we can read into that.
Can you give us a sense for why the second quarter is better? I think you're right John.
There's not much you can read into that.
If you take any one month extrapolated that's a somewhat risky exercise.
So that was our first and only month last quarter.
Now this is our first and only full quarter.
I think it's still pretty early to draw out any conclusions other than to say that both sets of numbers the one month and the quarter are quite consistent with our overall expectations in terms of the valuation and what we're expecting to get from these businesses.
So to that extent it's reassuring.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just maybe a 50 000-foot question for John or Mark.
If the U.S.
economy were to fall back into a recession if we had -- if the -- I guess growing consensus view now of the potential for a double dip were to prove to be true how do we think about the 13% to 14% ROE aspiration by 2013 under that type of a scenario? I know that's a very open-ended question.
Well a couple of things John I would offer.
It's hard to answer it and then also I think you have to overlay what level of severity you're talking about.
But if you take a look -- one thing I would offer in this context is if you take a look at where we are today and say in comparison where we were in 2007 a lot less of our business is being driven by appreciation.
It's much more being driven by underlying fundamentals meaning sales and flows.
And that's a big difference.
It's almost a reciprocal of what it was at that time.
That's not a criticism of that time but it's more a statement about the strength and the underpinnings of our individual lines of business.
So will those fundamentals be effective? They absolutely have -- will have some affect but is -- are we as depended on appreciation as we once were? Absolutely not.
And then the second piece to look at that is yes over 40% 45% of our business is now coming out of Japan.
We got very unique aspects in there.
We don't expect to see -- those are market that are less market sensitives than they are in the U.S.
given the nature of the products given the level of interest rates et cetera.
So again I think our portfolio effect in broader terms also works to our advantage in that context as well.
And so that gives us a sense that we've got a better prospects for sustaining strong fundamentals and a better prospect for strength and stability through challenging times.
I don't know Mark if you'd add anything to that? I guess if I can interject maybe you could focus too on your assessment of the general accounts today versus maybe a couple of years ago too and how that might or might not be a significant source of capital strain? Yes that was going to be my second point.
Let me make the first one which is if you look at the point that John made in his discussion of the drivers of ROE improvement the high return business is growing more rapidly than the others.
The Star and Edison results coming online and having the impact we want them to have in capital redeployment within that picture there is some equity market sensitivity particularly in the Annuity business.
And so that would be one of the things to think about as you're extrapolating forward.
But as John said we're less dependent on appreciation and more dependent on fundamentals and have a less market-sensitive earnings profile than we had several years ago.
So you could see things going better in some ways and maybe making up for some of the equity market sensitivity in the downturn.
So I think our core story holds together very well.
On the second point which is the one you just asked about we've not compromised credit risk in reaching for yield since we've come out of the financial crisis and as we've gone through a couple of episodes of very low interest rates.
We're feeling quite confident with respect to overall credit quality and the strength of our balance sheet liquidity credit quality capital across the board.
So I think we are also in a good position to weather the storm with respect to the general account would not anticipate a significant amount of capital strain there but rather from the bottoms up right now looking at a pretty strong credit picture.
So I think we've got ourselves in good shape there on the overall strength of the balance sheet credit quality and the mix of businesses and the management agenda that John talked about.
You mentioned this in passing but I wanted to come back to the issue of the impact of low interest rates to your Annuity business.
With the new annuity product you talked previously about it being priced for a high teens ROE.
Can you discuss how sensitive that ROE is to changes in rates? And if rates remain at around a 2.5% level any need to make further recalibrations to your product design? Nigel this is Charlie.
I think we anticipated a low interest rate environment when we made the changes and we did that on a prospective basis earlier this year.
So as of now we don't anticipate making further changes.
I think the product is designed for a low interest rate environment and we're pleased with the returns we're getting.
So would the new business return still be in the teens given what current rates are? Yes.
That's a fair comment.
Okay and the second question I had was just on POJ.
Continue to see very solid sales results but I am guessing at some point to maintain that momentum you're going to need to grow the Life Planner count.
For the most recent quarter Planner count was actually down a touch from the previous year.
So can you discuss what's holding that back and what needs to be done to get the Planner numbers growing again? Yes.
Actually it's an interesting point that historically you're absolutely right.
There was a strong correlation between new business growth and Life Planner growth.
But if you look over the course of the last 2 years you'll see that those 2 have largely separated now.
And this quarter as you fairly point out is yet another example probably for the last 6 or 8 quarters.
And that is in spite of it being flat in headcount with the Life Planner sales are up about 20%.
And keep in mind that sales are driven by 3 things.
You cited one which is the Head Planner count.
The second is productivity but the third is the interesting one I'd draw your attention to and that is growth in average premium.
And that has been happening now for a while and I think has some sustainability to it.
Because of this long-term secular shift that we're making from pure debt protection to that which is more heavily oriented to retirement.
And we're seeing that not only in Japan but in Korea Taiwan and elsewhere.
So I will never downplay the long-term positive potential of continued growth.
But I would cite that now it's important to pay attention as well to the average premium.
And so I'm actually encouraged by the fact that in spite of having no growth we're having quarter-over-quarter of growth of 20% or more.
And what I'm hoping to see is really a balance over time of growth being strong double-digit as a result of spreading growth over each of those 3 factors i.e.
headcount productivity and average premiums.
One question on interest rates another question on Japan.
Just on the interest rate side I guess my question is as a firm for planning purposes are you treating the recent swift decline in rates as a potential aberration or are you preparing the firm for an extension of this kind of environment? And a related question as rates have moved down you revised your HD6 to HD5.
If rates stay where they are now are we looking at HD4? So that's my first question on rates and then I'll follow-up on Japan.
Tom it's Mark.
I'll take the first part and let Charlie answer the Annuity question.
We have had in front of us for a while now the consideration of a scenario in which rates are very low for a long time.
And so we continue to consider the situation that we're in with respect to our ability to achieve our objectives in that scenario.
So it is part of our thinking.
Whether or not I want to particularly forecast rates and tell you what we think this is temporary or not is a little bit different question.
But I think the main point with respect to where we are is that it's something that we pay a lot of attention to and have been paying attention to for a while.
Remember that our business mix and individual businesses are intrinsically somewhat less rate-sensitive than some of the sensitivities that show up in other companies that would be considered our peers.
And our mix is actually pretty attractive and it's somewhat less affected by low rates.
But again it's something that we pay attention to.
We have that scenario in front of us and we keep worrying about it.
Tom this is Charlie just a follow up on your comment.
At this point again we've designed the product for a low interest-rate environment.
We'll always reevaluate the environment as we go forward.
But at this point we have no plans to change it in the near future.
Okay and then -- and Charlie just as a follow up am I correct in saying the biggest hedge outlay cost would be interest rate-related based on your product design? So I presume that's where you get squeezed on the margins here if rates remain low would be hedging your long-term interest rate risk as it relates to that product.
Is that the right way to think about it? Tom in terms of the mix of risk you're right.
The bulk of the risk in this HD products is an interest rate risk.
But that's also a relatively less expensive risk to hedge than some of the more exotic equity market exposures.
So you're right in terms of thinking about the risk mix but the cost of that is pretty low because those are very efficient markets and more plain vanilla-type hedges.
Yes got it okay.
And then just on -- shifting gears to Japan.
The absolute sales number was quite strong up 30% x Star/Edison.
Can you comment a little bit about -- what do you think is actually happening there? I guess my question is geared at do you think -- is this a market improvement situation where post the earthquake you're seeing a pick-up in demand for insurance products in the industry or is this more of PRU-specific in terms of the strength? I think it's more of the latter Tom.
This is Ed speaking.
And I say that because this is not isolated.
This is part of a trend that we've seen going on as I mentioned earlier for the last 6 to 8 quarters.
And it's I think coming from several areas and for several reasons.
Let me go into each of them.
As far as the Life Planner organization specifically POJ I believe this is the result of the steady shift into the retirement because we are seeing growth in the average premium there that's making up the bulk of the increase in sales.
Then of course the second contributor is the band channel which are again 2 years now.
We have seen very steady growth in that quarter-over-quarter.
And the vast bulk of that continues to be insurance with the smaller amount in the fixed annuity area.
But again this is heavily retirement-oriented.
And then the final third one which I would temper slightly is the -- both organic growth as well as the acquisition growth in the independent agent channel.
And of the $118 million that was reported there $34 million of that is coming from the Gibraltar channel which we just started a year ago and that was only about $6 million this time last year.
So we've got strong organic growth in that channel which is well priced.
And then we have the additional growth that came from the new Star and Edison IA channel whereas Mark pointed out earlier I would want to temper your expectations on that because we will revisit some of the pricing and commissions on that to ensure that it has the same margins that we get out of our traditional Gibraltar IA channels.
So long-winded way of saying one of the encouraging aspects of the growth here is that it's very broad-based.
We're getting it from our traditional Life Planner which is mostly through growth and average premium and I believe that's driven by this long-term shift to retirement.
We continue to get steady growth in the bank channel.
And what's encouraging about that is it's less concentrated.
If you recall in the past almost 90% of it was coming out of the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi.
That's now down to about 60% as we steadily grow the number of banks which is still currently out of Gibraltar.
Only -- about 37 I think 32 of them are active.
We have scores more where we picked up relationships but not new business as a result of Star and Edison.
So that's the second contributor and then the third will be the IA.
So I think these 3 legs of this stool that is supporting the growth that you're observing.
Got it.
That's helpful Ed.
And so Ed you're not seeing necessarily any meaningful change in the industry sales momentum as far as you know? Well as far as the industry as you know the large domestic have been steadily losing market share of new business.
That trend has been going on for about 5 years.
And while I've not looked at the most recent quarter I think it will evidence that we continue to grow our market share of new business for some of the reasons I just mentioned that are driven partly by strategic product shift and partly by the expansion of distribution.
The first question just following up on the International business.
Just wondering if you could address whether you feel you've got more room through expansion through the bank channel or is that -- and are you adding any more outlook? So is that mostly done and related to that just your thoughts on production at Star and Edison and how much potential you believe you have to improve the sales results there? And then I have one on the Disability business after this.
Sure.
Let me -- this is Ed.
Let me take your bank question first.
On the bank side given the numbers I just mentioned about the number of banks we're dealing with I think we still have quite a way to go in terms of growth.
I want to be cautious about this because the historic growth has been so dramatic.
Obviously that cannot continue indefinitely.
But if you look at the fact that through Gibraltar which is producing over 90% of our distribution on the banks right now being specifically the PGLS subsidiary as opposed to the acquisitions we only have 32 active banks.
To Star and Edison and their relationships which are more than double that we are producing very little.
And that's understandable because their capacity for production was severely impaired as a result of the prior ownership and the situation they were in.
I'm hopeful that as we rehabilitate those relationships we will be able to expand the footprint.
To be specific in terms of new relationships we just started with the Citibank relationship in the last quarter and that has started to be productive.
So I'm optimistic that as a result of adding additional number of banks particularly the more powerful regional banks we have 3 or 4 of those relationships which I believe have future opportunities.
Now as far as the Star and Edison life adviser opportunity I think what you'll see there will probably be akin to what we went through when we took over the keyway but this situation will be easier.
The keyway was a situation where those -- that company was bankrupt but we did introduce some credentialization if you will in terms of strengthening the management as well as the training of the organization then left to a short term reduction in the number of sales people.
But that in turn was offset by a steady improvement in the productivity.
Now granted the situation we have here with both Star and Edison is a far more positive situation.
These are by no means bankrupt organizations.
Nonetheless I anticipate that as we begin to introduce some of our core competencies and sales management of captive agency system it is possible you will see some reduction in the numbers.
But I think that will be offset through improvements in the productivity.
Long-term I'm quite sanguine about it particularly when one keeps in mind that an evaluation of this I believe we attached 5% or less of the value to this to growth in new business.
So I think relative to the expectations in the pricing is there's lot more upside opportunity here than there is downside risk.
All right that's helpful.
And then for Charlie on the Disability business your margins have kept declining in the last few quarters even as other companies' results for the most part have stabilized.
So just wondering how much of this you feel is related to the economy and whether you feel you've got a pricing issue in your book? Okay well the benefit ratio is certainly up from the first quarter but it's actually down from 270 basis points from the third quarter of last year.
So it is bouncing around.
It's higher than we want clearly.
But I do think it reflects the economic conditions that are out there.
Having said that in the first quarter there was kind of -- or it was rather the second quarter there was good news and bad news.
And that is that -- the good news was that the rate of incidents decreased and terminations actually increased.
But what happened this was a severity issue.
And the severity is up in most part because industries with the increase in the number of claims are the ones we have the full compensated employees.
So we'll see what happens going forward but we think we understand the reason why the benefit ratio was up.
And we'll monitor it carefully.
I'm probably forgetting or missing something I should remember but maybe Rich can humor me.
I think you said Rich that the holding company had $4.5 billion of net liquidity and that the target was $1 billion.
So I guess the question is why isn't $4.5 billion minus $1 billion equals $3.5 billion? Why is it not that -- not the amount of readily deployable capital at this point? There's this $900 million of that that's operating debt.
There's $900 million of that cash but that's with operating debt.
Okay that is straightforward enough.
And then I was just curious you announced the share repurchase program on June 9.
And obviously had plenty of liquidity and interest and didn't see any purchases in June.
Was there a technical reason why you are out of the market in June? Sure we were in blackout.
I want to follow up on two things.
First once the expense efficiencies are realized in Star and Edison what do you think the normalized return on equity could be for that business? And then I have a follow up.
Yes.
First let me recap what the expectations are there.
You'll recall that we expected that we'll have one-time expenses of $500 million will incur 80% of that over the next couple of years that we will reap $250 million in terms of improvement in AOI coming out of that and that about 80% of that will be reaped over the same period at the time.
But this was priced during the evaluation to come in on a levered ROE-basis in the mid-teens.
And so far as we've indicated a couple of times every indication admittedly very early is that this is performing consistent with those expectations.
So mid-teens levered ROE just for Star and Edison.
What about for the entire international operation? Well that has consistently performed in the high teens near 20.
Because this Star and Edison numbers that we've just talked about are lower than the traditional 20%.
It will pull that overall number down into the high teens.
But I think it's reasonable to expect performance for a total PII international organization in the high teens.
And then my follow-up question is to what extent might there be consideration to moving to a quarterly shareholder dividend rather than annual? Well the payment of the annual dividend reflects the history of a shareholder base that included a lot of small shareholders coming out de-neutralization.
And that question has come up and it is something that we will consider and we'll discuss it if necessary when we announce our dividend later this year.
Can you guys maybe just comment a little bit on sort of the regulatory front what you guys are thinking related to the SIFI and maybe other ancillary regulatory matters Yes Chris this is Mark.
There haven't been a lot of new developments in terms of stunning revelations in Washington.
Let me reiterate a couple of points that we've made in the past.
One is that financial strength is part of our value proposition.
And being well-regulated is important to us and can play a role in that.
So we don't go into the consideration of the regulatory environment looking for loopholes or trying to lean hard against anything that anybody thinks of that might be regulatory in nature.
Secondly we believe that it's more important that we be viewed as an insurance company with the financial dynamics that are actually part of our business models as opposed to viewed as a bank and regulated as a bank.
And then it's more important that that distinction be drawn than that we argue about which label or bucket or tag we wind up with with respect to consideration of things like systemically important or not.
On July 21 we became regulated by the Federal Reserve.
That was part of the Dodd-Frank Bill where we move from the OTS the Office of Thrift Supervision to Federal Reserve regulation.
We're encouraged by our engagement with the Fed at this point.
And more broadly we look forward to constructive engagement with the Federal Reserve and Treasury and others involved in Washington and the NAIC and the state regulators as this overall regulatory picture falls into place.
It remains right now fairly fragmented and uncertain but so far we think we're going to have the opportunity as I said for constructive engagement and we'll see where it goes.
Okay I appreciate the thoughts there.
And then just lastly You made the decision to get into the CMBS market in terms of originations per securitization but you decided to go about it was sort of with the JV.
Can you talk around that decision maybe to get back in and then why the JV route? Sure.
Just to be clear we're not re-entering the CMBS market in terms of taking any kind of warehouse risk going forward right? We are not warehousing any assets.
We have an interest in the JV and that's amended to about $10 million.
And our interest in getting back in is so that we can originate loans and service those loans and create additional fee income.
So it helps our potential borrowers or clients because it means we offer another product to them i.e.
the CMBS product along with our general account products.
So it expands the suite of our offerings to potential borrowers.
So it helps there.
And it also increases fee income which is one of the main goals of the Asset Management business.
But without the principal risk that we've taken in the past.
Exactly.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the third quarter 2011 earnings teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's teleconference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Eric Durant.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Cynthia.
Good morning.
Welcome to Prudential's Expanded Third Quarter Call to cover third quarter results and our financial outlook for 2012 and beyond.
Representing Prudential today are the usual suspects.
John Strangfeld CEO; Mark Grier Vice Chairman; Rich Carbone Chief Financial Officer; Charlie Lowrey Head of Domestic Businesses; Ed Baird Head of International Businesses; and Peter Sayre Controller.
Slides supporting the financial outlook presentation are available now at our Investor Relations website www.investor.prudential.com.
In order to help you to understand Prudential Financial we will make some forward-looking statements in the following presentation.
It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today.
Additional information regarding factors that could cause such a difference appears in the section titled Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures of our earnings press release for the third quarter of 2011 which can be found on our website at www.investor.prudential.com.
In addition in managing our businesses we use a non-GAAP measure we call adjusted operating income to measure the performance of our Financial Services businesses.
Adjusted operating income excludes net investment gains and losses as adjusted and related charges and adjustments as well as results from divested businesses.
Adjusted operating income also excludes recorded changes in asset values that are expected to ultimately accrue to contract holders and recorded changes in contract holder liabilities resulting from changes in related asset values.
Our earnings press release contains information about our definition of adjusted operating income.
The comparable GAAP presentation and the reconciliation between the 2 for the quarter and 9-month periods ended September 30 are set out in our earnings press release on our website.
Additional historical information relating to the company's financial performance is also located on our website.
John? Thank you Eric.
This is John Strangfeld.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us.
I will make some overview comments  while leaving plenty of room for Rich Mark and for your questions.
Although our results in the third quarter reflected the highly unsettled market environment underlying performance of our businesses continue to be quite favorable.
Our International Insurance operations which are largely insulated from changing financial markets continued to produce a very solid growth in earnings and strong fundamentals.
The Life Planner business achieved an 11% increase in earnings as they continue to successfully execute their time-tested business model.
Sales in the Life Planner businesses increased by 13% in comparison to the third quarter of last year based in constant dollars.
In Gibraltar adjusted operating income increased 82% including the contributions of the former Star and Edison businesses we acquired earlier this year as well as the gain on sale of a portion of our indirect investment in China Pacific.
If we back these items out of this quarter's results to get a same-store type comparison earnings would exceed those of last year's third quarter by 26%.
Gibraltar sales more than doubled exceeding $0.5 billion for the quarter for the first time and excluding the contribution of Star and Edison sales were up 37% lead by the bank channel.
The Star/Edison integration is going well and the legal entity merger of Star and Edison into Gibraltar continues on pace for a first quarter close as planned.
After that we will begin to achieve the significant expense savings that will drive much of the earnings growth we expected from this transaction.
In the U.S.
reported results were less favorable but business fundamentals continued strong.
For example in our Annuity's business our distinctive HD projects continue to enjoy excellent traction with both consumers and distributors.
We are very comfortable with our current annuities product and our level of sales.
The loss that Annuity's reported from DAC and reserve unlocking this quarter should not obscure the strong underlying performance of this business.
Excluding the impact of unlocking from both the third quarter of this year and last AOI increased to 39%.
Similarly our Asset Management business continues to produce healthy net flows and AUM is up substantially year-over-year.
Over time the ability to generate positive flows in AUM a function we believe of investment performance more than any other factor will drive earnings performance in this business.
But variances in inherently volatile revenue sources such as performance fees and proprietary investing are unavoidable and our lower earnings this quarter resulted from declines in the end sources.
Our Individual Life Insurance business also recorded a sales increase this quarter.
And Retirement's account values are up 10% from a year earlier after another quarter of solid flows in our Institutional standalone business.
In short our business momentum continues to build and our underlying performance this quarter was solid.
We've expanded our call today to give you our outlook for 2012 as well as our longer-term goals for ROE.
And although I don't want to front run much of what Rich and Mark will be telling you I would like to offer a few comments to provide context to their remarks.
First business mix.
We have a balanced portfolio of businesses and risks that support our ability to achieve our long-term objectives over a variety of market conditions.
Our businesses operate in attractive markets they are highly competitive they are well lead and collectively they offer attractive growth in returning prospects.
Our mix of businesses didn't just happen it's by design.
And we have the business mix we want to have.
Second balance sheet strength and capital management.
Our strong capital position liquidity and sound asset equality continue to serve us well supporting the opportunity to toggle between offense and defense.
Capital management remains in the essential lever and the integral part of managing Prudential.
And we continue to invest in our businesses as they grow and we have an attractive record of opportunistic acquisitions.
We will continue to seek attractive deals where we can realize attractive terms and successfully integrate acquired properties.
But we are disciplined in managing capital and we recognize the importance of balancing share repurchases dividends and investments in our businesses to ensure an appropriate capital structure and attractive returns.
And I'm sure you've noticed that we repurchased $750 million of our common stock last quarter under our current board authorization.
Third our return on equity objectives.
We have been consistent in our focus on maintaining the attractive mix of very good businesses with the earnings power to produce superior returns with the above-average consistency and in a variety of market conditions.
And as Rich will walk through with you in a few minutes we continue to believe that our stated return on equity objective for 2013 of 13% to 14% is achievable even with some headwinds in the markets.
With that I'll stop.
I'll thank you for your interest and I'll turn it over to Rich.
Rich over to you.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
As we've just heard from John we continue to build business momentum even in these adverse markets.
And while common stock earnings per share was $1.07 for the third quarter based on adjusted operating income compared to $2.12 per share in the year ago quarter market-driven and discreet items including the impact of our annual update of experience and actuarial assumptions had a significant impact on our reported results as they did in the third quarter of last year.
In the Annuities business the market drop in the quarter caused us to increase reserves.
The guaranteed minimum death and income benefits and amortization of DAC resulting in charges totaling $0.68 per share.
In Retirement and unlocking based on the annual update of experience and assumptions resulted in a charge of $0.04 per share.
On the Individual Life business it benefited from $0.12 per share from the reduction of net amortization of DAC and related items as a result of the annual update of actuarial assumptions.
This benefit was partially offset by increased net amortization of charges of $0.05 per share driven by the equity market decline in the quarter for it benefit of $0.07 per share.
Group Insurance results benefited $0.04 per share for reserve refinements driven by the annual assumption update.
In International Insurance Gibraltar Life benefited by $0.13 per share from the partial sale of our indirect investment in China Pacific Life.
This benefit was partially offset by integration costs of $0.06 per share relating to the Star/Edison acquisition.
And Corporate and Other results absorbed charges of $0.15 per share to increase reserves for estimated death claims based on new matching criteria used with Social Security Death Benefit Death Files and $0.03 per share for a contribution to be made to New York insurance industry insolvency fund for a total of $0.18 per share.
In total the items I just mentioned had a net unfavorable impact of $0.72 per share on our third quarter earnings.
Adding back the net charges of $0.72 per share to our reported results would bring EPS in the quarter to $1.79.
Our year ago quarter results included $0.74 per share of net favorable impacts from unlockings and reserve releases mainly reflecting the 11% increase in the S&amp;P 500 in that quarter.
Taking these items out of both the current and year ago quarters would produce an EPS increase of about 30% driven largely by organic business growth and the initial contributions of the Star/Edison earnings.
Moving on to the GAAP results for the Financial Services businesses.
We reported net income of $1.5 billion or $3.06 per share for the third quarter compared to $1.2 billion or $2.46 per share a year ago.
Now GAAP net income for the current quarter includes amount characterized as net realized investment gains of $1.6 billion.
This compares to $284 billion of pretax net realized investment gains in the year ago quarter.
The $1.6 billion of current quarter gains includes $2 billion of asset and liability value changes driven by the strengthening of the yen and by March set derivatives primarily related to the duration of management activities.
These gains are partially offset by impairments and credit losses amounting to $150 million and net losses of $94 million primarily related to hedging activities.
GAAP book value per share amounted to $74.52 at the end of the third quarter.
This compares to $67.81 a year ago.
Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturities were $4.2 billion at end of the quarter up $1 billion from a  quarter earlier mainly as a result of foreign currency movements.
And we were in a net unrealized gain position of $9.8 billion at September 30.
Book value per share excluding unrealized investment gains and losses and pension and postretirement benefits increased $6.39 from year ago reaching $66.79 at the end of the quarter.
Now I'll discuss our capital and liquidity in some detail later on as part of our guidance discussion where you will see estimated projections of both GAAP and stat capital as of 12/31.
Our estimates in stat capital as of 9/30 is about where we would expect it to be or are expecting it to be.
At year end and is around a 500 RBC ratio actually a little better.
And now to Mark.
Thanks Rich and good morning good afternoon or good evening.
I'll start with our U.S.
businesses.
Our Annuity business reported a loss of $191 million for the third quarter compared to adjusted operating income of $588 million a year ago.
Results for the current quarter reflect the unfavorable reserve adjustments and unlocking that Rich mentioned.
Strengthening of our reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits resulted in a charge of $241 million to current quarter results.
This charge was largely driven by the equity market decline in the quarter with a partial offset from our annual update of actuarial assumptions to reflect a more favorable experience pattern on contract features than our earlier estimates.
The DAC unlocking resulted in a further charge of $194 million to current quarter results also largely driven by the equity market decline.
The items I mentioned sum up to a net unfavorable impact of $435 million on current quarter results.
Results for the year ago quarter included a net benefit of $412 million from a favorable back unlocking and the release of a portion of our reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits largely driven by the 11% increase in the S&amp;P 500 in that quarter together with our annual update of actuarial assumptions which reflected strengthening persistency.
Stripping out these items Annuity results were $244 million for the current quarter compared to $176 million a year ago for an increase of $68 million.
These results translate to a return of 87 basis points on average account values for the current quarter compared to 76 basis points a year ago.
While our quarter-to-quarter reported results reflect market volatility since we are required to adjust reserves in DAC essentially by projecting the impact of current market movements out over contract periods that are measured in decades our underlying results are benefiting from higher returns on a growing base as we are continuing to add profitable business supported by our auto-rebalancing mechanism that helps us to manage the economic risk of these market fluctuations.
Our gross variable annuity sales for the quarter amounted to $4.5 billion in line with the second quarter.
This compares to $5.4 billion a year ago.
Our sales results in earlier periods benefited from dislocations in the marketplace as some competitors trim features or exited the business following the financial crisis.
More recently we have seen some competitors revamp their products leading in some instances to surges of sales due to product introductions or in anticipation of retrenchment of features or repricing.
While our quarterly sales comparison reflects these market developments we are continuing to benefit from the strong value proposition of our highest daily protected value feature which clearly differentiates our products.
All of the variable annuity living benefit features we now offer come packaged with the auto-rebalancing feature.
While a number of our mainstream competitors have recently introduced some form of account value protection embedded in product design our products are differentiated on that front as well.
In contrast to the fund level approach used by many of the new products which require investment in a very limited set of funds our contract level approach is tailored to each client's account composition and guarantee profile.
This allows us to offer a broader choice of investments within the asset allocation programs that are required for our living benefit features and to return each client's funds to equity market participation as soon as appropriate on a contract-by-contract basis.
As of September 30 more than 80% of our account values with living benefits and nearly 2/3 of our entire book of variable annuities has our auto-rebalancing feature.
We strongly believe that our consistent approach to product design and commitment to the marketplace with a track record of 5 years now since the introduction of our highest daily products coupled with auto-rebalancing provides us with a solid competitive advantage in a market that is very much driven by advisers and third-party gatekeepers and distributors.
The Retirement segment reported adjusted operating income of $111 million for the current quarter compared to $119 million a year ago.
Current quarter results reflect the charge of $26 million from updating of DAC and other amortization items based on our annual review while assumptions for the year ago quarter included charges of $15 million reflecting the results of a similar review.
Stripping these items out of the comparison results for the Retirement business are up $3 million from a year ago.
Third quarter results benefited from higher fees and for more favorable case experience on traditional Retirement business.
However these benefits were largely offset in the quarterly comparison by a lower contribution from investment results mainly driven by non-coupon asset classes.
Total retirement gross deposits in sales were $9.5 billion for the quarter compared to $8.3 billion a year ago.
The increase was driven by sales of stable value wrap products sold to plan sponsors on a stand-alone basis which amounted to $5.1 billion in the quarter up from $2.3 billion a year ago.
Full Service Retirement gross deposits and sales were $4 billion in the current quarter compared to $5.3 billion a year ago.
We are continuing to see slow case turnover in the mid- to large-case market which is our primary focus.
On the other hand we've done well in retaining existing business in this environment with full-service persistency continuing at a solid 96%.
Overall net additions for the Retirement business were $3.9 billion for the quarter compared to $3.5 billion a year ago.
Account values stood at $215 billion at the end of the quarter up 10% from a year ago.
The Asset Management segment reported adjusted operating income of $123 million for the current quarter compared to $148 million a year ago.
While most of the segment's earnings come from Asset Management fees the decline in results from a year ago was driven by a lower contribution from performance-based fees and proprietary investing activities.
The contribution from performance-based fees was down about $20 million from a year ago reflecting current quarter declines in value of several properties and institutional real estate funds we managed and the contribution from proprietary investing activities was down $12 million from a year ago.
The lower contribution from these items was partly offset by higher Asset Management fees driven by growth in assets under management net of expenses.
The segment's assets under management increased about $80 billion from a year ago including $15 billion of primarily U.S.
dollar general account assets from the Star and Edison acquisitions.
The rest of the increase in assets under management was driven by cumulative market appreciation and about $26 billion of positive net flows in Institutional and Retail business over the past year.
Adjusted operating income for our Individual Life Insurance business was $145 million for the current quarter compared to $190 million a year ago.
Current quarter results benefited by $75 million from a favorable unlocking of DAC and other items resulting from our annual actuarial review and related mainly to more favorable persistency and mortality assumptions.
Going the other way current quarter results include charges of about $30 million to accelerate amortization of DAC and other items driven by unfavorable separate account performance linked to the 14% decline in the S&amp;P 500.
Results for the year ago quarter benefited by $52 million from a favorable unlocking based on the annual actuarial review and from $25 million of reduced amortization of DAC and other items based on favorable market performance.
Striping these items from the comparison results from Individual Life were down $13 million from a year ago mainly as a result of higher expenses and less favorable mortality experience in the current quarter.
Sales based on annualized new business premiums amounted to $70 million for the current quarter up from $64 million year ago.
The increase came mainly from third-party sales with our relative competitive position improved for term and universal life products.
The Group Insurance business reported adjusted operating income of $64 million in the current quarter compared to $61 million a year ago.
Current quarter results benefited by $26 million from refinements in group life and disability reserve as a result of our annual review while results for the year ago quarter benefited by $28 million reflecting a similar review.
Stripping the reserve refinement out of the comparison Group Insurance results are up $5 million from a year ago.
This increase was driven by a more favorable group life underwriting results partly offset by higher expenses and a lower contribution from investment results.
Group Insurance sales from the quarter were $52 million compared to $110 million a year ago.
Most of our Group Insurance sales are recorded in the first quarter based on the effective date of the business.
Turning to our International businesses.
Gibraltar Life's adjusted operating income was $394 million in the current quarter compared to $217 million a year ago.
As Rich mentioned Gibraltar's results for the current quarter include income of $84 million from the partial sale of our investment in China Pacific Group by the Carlisle consortium.
As of the end of the quarter our remaining investment in China Pacific has a cost of about $30 million with market appreciation of roughly $100 million which is included in the $9.8 billion of net unrealized gains on our balance sheet.
Going the other way Gibraltar's results for the quarter absorbed $43 million of integration cost for the Star and Edison acquisitions.
We continue to expect about $500 million of integration costs over a 5-year period including roughly $120 million over the remainder of 2011 and $215 million in 2012 to achieve targeted annual cost savings of $250 million after the business integration is completed.
The integration continues on track and we expect to merge the Star and Edison stand-alone entities into Gibraltar in early 2012.
Excluding the China Pacific gain and the integration costs Gibraltar's adjusted operating income was up $136 million from a year ago.
This increase includes a $79 million contribution from the operations of the acquired Star and Edison businesses.
The current quarter contribution includes $16 million of negative refinement to amounts reported earlier in the year.
So I think of the average of the second and third quarter contributions just under $100 million per quarter as more indicative of the initial operating results before realization of any significant expense synergies.
We expect to begin to realize the targeted cost saves after the merger of the legal entities is completed.
The remainder of the increase in Gibraltar's results from a year ago or $57 million came mainly from business growth driven by protection products reflecting our expanding bank channel distribution and a greater contribution from investment results.
Sales from Gibraltar Life based on annualized premiums in constant dollars were $517 million in the current quarter.
This represents an increase of $289 million from a year ago including $85 million of organic growth driven largely by the bank channel and $204 million from production through the distribution that came to us in the Star and Edison acquisition including about $80 million from independent agents.
This $80 million includes about $35 million from a Star/Edison term product for which we are implementing changes as part of the integration of the product portfolios with Gibraltar.
Late in the third quarter Gibraltar signed a distribution agreement with Mizuho Japan's third largest bank expanding our distribution to now include 2 of the country's 3 largest banks.
The quarter also marked the first sales of a Gibraltar product our popular U.S.
dollar retirement policy by the Star/Edison life advisers.
We are encouraged by the strong reception of this product by these Asians and their clients with about 40% of Star/Edison agents selling at least one of these policies during the quarter.
Our Life Planner business reported adjusted operating income of $357 million for the current quarter up $34 million from $323 million a year ago.
The increase was driven by continued business growth mainly in Japan together with favorable mortality.
Sales from our Life Planner operations based on annualized  premiums in constant dollars were $263 million in the current quarter up $30 million or 13% from a year ago.
The increase was driven mainly by strong sales in Japan where we are benefiting from increased demand for retirement income products and in Korea.
Corporate and Other operations reported a loss of $327 million for the current quarter compared to a $265 million loss a year ago.
As Rich mentioned current quarter results include a $99 million charge to increase reserves for estimated death claims based on applying new matching criteria to the Social Security Death File and an additional $20 million charge for a $20 million charge for a contribution to be made to an insurance industry insolvency fund.
Excluding those charges the loss from Corporate and Other results was reduced by $57 million from a year ago.
This is mainly the result of lower expenses including some items that are nonlinear or driven by liabilities that move inversely with the equity markets and more favorable results from hedging activities retained at Corporate and Other.
I want to turn now to some comments on the impact on Prudential of the current interest-rate environment and the framework will include a discussion of the GAAP income statement and the statutory balance sheet the 2 basic places in which we live.
We factored the current interest rate environment into our earnings guidance in ROE targets that Rich will address in a few minutes.
Let me make a few comments now about how we're thinking about interest rate sensitivity and how we're managing interest rate risk.
The headline is this is a manageable exposure for us working through earnings over time and having little incremental balance sheet impact.
First I would draw a distinction between our international and U.S.
businesses.
We now derive roughly half of our earnings from International Insurance.
The vast majority of this business is Japanese yen-based and has been priced for the very low interest rates that have prevailed in Japan throughout our history there.
With our emphasis on protection products most of our returns are driven by Mortality and Expense margins with limited exposure to financial market conditions.
In our U.S.
businesses our risks are well-balanced among mortality longevity equity markets interest rates and credit exposures and are diversified across retirement asset management and insurance.
We believe this diversification limits our overall sensitivity to any particular type of risk.
Within our U.S.
Insurance businesses we have relatively little exposure to products which tend to be the most interest rate sensitive such as fixed annuities universal life and long-term care.
To put a fence around our exposure to a continuation of the low interest rate environment in the U.S.
I would start with the expected roll-off per year of our general account fixed income portfolio including bonds structured securities and commercial mortgages and size the amount of investment income decline we would face for each 100 basis points on which the average yield on these investments rolling off exceeds reinvestment rates.
As of September 30 this U.S.
fixed income portfolio amounted to about $125 billion and we would expect about $12 billion per year on average to roll off in each of the next 3 years.
The yield of these investments rolling off in each of those years is expected to be in the low 5% range.
For each 100 basis point of decline in the reinvestment rates as compared to the roll off yield that would represent a $120 million decline in annual run rate of top line investment income over 12 months.
For example if our time horizon is calendar year 2012 by the end of that year the annual run rate of investment income will be $120 million lower than at the end of 2011.
You should think of this as an unmanaged pretax number.
Assuming no change in investment strategies and no improvement in interest rates this would compound to an annualized impact of $240 million at the end of year 2 and $360 million at the end of year 3 or in this case 2014.
However we would not expect all of this hypothetical loss of investment income to fall to the bottom line considering a number of significant mitigating factors.
Since the assets and liabilities of our U.S.
businesses are closely duration-matched we would expect that as a higher yielding assets roll off a portion of the corresponding liabilities would roll off or be repriced at the same time limiting our exposure to declining or negative spreads.
Given low contractual crediting rate floors and experience rating provisions on significant portions of our business mainly in Retirement we have the ability to implement crediting rate reductions in response to a continuing low interest rate environment.
As of September 30 roughly $25 billion of our liability is subject to crediting rate floors have significant contractual room to reduce rates 100 basis points or more on average.
In addition with our asset management capabilities across broad asset classes including private placements and commercial mortgages we are also able to consider changes in investment strategy to help manage exposure to the loss of top line investment income over time.
The exposure of the statutory capital position of our U.S.
insurance companies to a continued lower interest rate environment is also manageable.
Statutory base reserves for most products are formulaic and prescribed and generally not affected by the periods of low interest rates.
However we performed asset adequacy tests on our statutory reserves annually under a range of scenarios including several with prolonged low interest rates.
As of the end of 2010 Prudential Insurance had about $900 million in additional asset adequacy testing reserves over the statutory base level reflecting a shock down scenario from the low interest rates prevailing at that time and that assumption that interest rates will not recover over the lives of the contracts.
This is a very robust low interest rate scenario.
This robust statutory interest rate shock scenario is subject to floors.
In last year's testing the floor in the most stressful scenario was based on declines of about 100 basis points from existing rates based on 50% of the then prevailing 5-year treasury rate.
At recent interest rate levels the reductions would be about 50 basis points.
Since the additional stress beyond the prior year floor is somewhat limited we estimate that our exposure to further asset adequacy testing reserves for year end 2011 is measured in the low hundreds of millions.
To sum up we believe that our exposure to a continued low interest rate environment is manageable both from the perspective of reported GAAP income and statutory capital.
Now I'll turn it back over to Rich.
Hello again.
As always we like to lay out the assumptions and then get into the numbers and I'm on Slide 6.
So let me give you -- you've probably printed it by now.
On Slide 6.
It should say Assumptions for 2012 Outlook.
First we estimated 2011 baseline FSB earnings where we exclude unusual and nonrecurring items that we've identified throughout the year and some items that we know are going to occur in the fourth quarter.
Next we need to input some S&amp;P assumptions.
We assume the 2011 ending S&amp;P of 1 250 a 2012 average S&amp;P of 1 300 and an ending 2012 S&amp;P of 1 350.
2012 is fully hedged with the yen at 85 to the dollar and the won at 1 181 to the dollar.
In 2012 the effective tax rate will be back up to around 27%.
Our guidance assumes we maintain leverage at around 25% and that we deploy excess capital generated during 2012.
And lastly we have assumed 2012 rates will track the forward curve.
So for example the 10-year treasury rises to 212 at the end of the year 2011 and to 250 at the end of the year 2012.
Now I'm on Slide 7.
And it's a bit complicated.
There's a lot of columns there's restatements there's a whole bunch of stuff going on.
So I'm going to go slow hopefully and start on the left-hand side there.
So you see 2010 baseline excluding DAC it should be yellow on your slide and it says $5.50 to $5.60 in that first column.
I think given it's November of 2011 we can narrow that range a bit and call it $5.56 since that's what we actually reported.
The next column 2011 projected earnings shows AOI without taking out the unusual items and before the restatement to DAC of $6.25 to $6.35.
And the next column baseline estimates for 2011 after onetime charges and unusual items are removed is $6.50 to $6.60.
Well that's up 18% from 2010 and it's 6% better than our original guidance for 2011.
Now normally we could stop here and go on to 2012 but then there's DAC.
So as we disclosed in our 8-K last night we expect to adapt the new GAAP accounting standards for deferred policy acquisition costs retrospectively effective January 1 2012.
As a result we will reduce the DAC asset on our balance sheet.
While we are still finalizing the numbers we estimate that upon adoption of the new rules the DAC asset for the Financial Services business will be reduced by approximately $3.8 billion to $2.7 billion with a corresponding reduction in after-tax equity -- equities most of the time is after tax of approximately $2.7 billion to $3.2 billion.
Looking at the impact on earnings in general application of the new rules will produce a decline in our reported adjusted operating income because the lower level of costs qualifying for deferral and accordingly expensed in the period will be only partially offset by the lower level of amortization of deferred costs resulting from the write down of the DAC asset.
For the full year 2010 we estimate that the impact of the new rules would have been a reduction in earnings per share of about $0.35 to $0.45.
Looking forward we estimate the full year 2011 and 2012 earnings per share would be reduced by between $0.40 and $0.50 per share for 2011 and 45% to 55% per share in 2012.
Last night you have an 8-K in front of you.
That 8-K quoted 9-month effects so make sure that you're using full year FX that I gave you just now when you forecast and you stick this stuff in your models.
Our most of the decline in 2011 and '12 relates to our International Insurance business the large-cap distribution system and our Annuity business being very large independent financial adviser system.
Now let's get back to the slide and that brings us to the column labeled 2011 baseline estimates including DAC.
So that line that column is restated for the DAC.
We add business growth for 2012.
Corporate and Others is going to have a slight -- a higher loss  by about -- I don't know what the higher loss is.
I'm not good to give you that but pension income is down $60 million because we reduced the discount rate for which we present value the liabilities and we reduced the yield on the investments in the trust.
We are going to add Star/Edison.
Star is in picks up an additional 2 month's worth of earnings realizes some synergies and also has business growth.
And we expect capital deployment to also add to EPS appreciation.
So the net result of all that is we expect 2012 base line AOI EPS to be between $6.50 and $6.90 a 10% increase from 2011 and an 11.4% return on equity.
And lastly we take out or I should say we add in I guess the Star/Edison onetime charges and that brings reported AOI down to $6.20 to $6.50 on a reported AOI basis.
Now I'm on Slide 8.
Since we are retrospectively adopting the DAC accounting change all prior periods will be restated.
Slide 8 shows a 3-year AOI trend restated for DAC.
And it shows that from '10 to '11 AOI is up 18%.
From '11 to '12 AOI is up 10% which is the same number on the previous slide.
Now moving on to capital.
I'm on Slide 9 now.
Our original -- our estimate today is that we will generate about $3.5 billion of capital in 2011.
We need $2 billion to fund the capital needs of the businesses resulting from their 2011 growth.
You see that need reflected in the required capital line going from $35.5 billion to $37.5 billion 2010 to 2011 which tracks the change in actual equity.
We had to backfill and we had to hold that equity to suffice the needs in the required equity.
That went as I just mentioned I think from $29.2 billion to $31.2 billion.
So that suggests that by year-end we will anticipate returning roughly the remaining $1.5 billion.
That's the $3.5 billion we generated less to $2 billion we need and we're keeping in retained earnings and in equity.
And we would -- now that gets to the $1.5 billion we expect to return to shareholders by year end.
The net result of what was created was the $3.5 billion versus what we used the entire $3.5 billion in returning to the shareholder in the needs of the business is that our excess capital position stays the same as it was on 12/31/2010.
On balance sheet available capital is $4 billion to $4.5 billion; readily deployable capital $2.2 billion to $2.7 billion; and PFI cash will come in at around $3.2 billion and our RBC insolvency ratios are above their targeted needs.
Now the next slide.
Now we'll go into the long-term ROE expectation projections goals.
Slide 10 lists the major drivers of long-term ROE as well as drivers of shareholder value.
We know have critical capital deployment ends to creating value whether it's in funding organic growth making acquisitions or use the share repurchases and dividends.
Organic growth also plays a major role in ROE improvement and a little help from a more stable S&amp;P would* be greatly appreciated.
We have assumed the JPY 78 and KRW 1 110 in the numbers or in the translation of earnings in the numbers that you see on the next slide.
But today we are actually hedging the yen at better rates than JPY 78 to the dollar because of the interest rate differential between U.S.
rates and yen rates so they're lower than JPY 78 which is a good guide.
Successful integration of Star/Edison goes without saying.
And we made a change to the treatment of AOCI to be consistent with our peers and how we're treat it in calculating ROE.
We're now going to exclude the CTA component of AOCI from the denominator in the ROE calculation.
Again this is consistent with our peers but I think more importantly this reflects the reality of a stronger yen to the company's value.
So just to repeat going forward all of AOCI is going to be excluded from the ROE calculation.
The debt-to-capital ratio we're holding it to 25%.
Slide 7 brings that story together and shows we are maintaining our 2013 ROE goal of being between 13% and 14% and we expect to achieve that through business growth more effective legal entity structures capital-friendly product design and continued efficient use of capital resources.
I think that concludes all of our prepared remarks.
And we're going to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to the line of Nigel Dally of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So I want to focus on your ROE goal for 2013.
For 2012 your guidance implies an ROE of roughly 11%.
So to hit the 13% to 14% you imply a pretty massive increases in EPS.
A couple of questions on that.
First you review that as a stretch goal or a target you expect to achieve? Second you provided some of the building blocks.
Can you place some dimensions around their relative contribution? And third what do we need to see with interest rates at that goal? Okay.
Nigel let me take that.
This is John.
Just to take that in terms of the primary building blocks for me they are the same building blocks we have been talking about before which is that the principal things that are going to get us there are continuing strong performance of our ROE businesses particularly the International Insurance Asset Management and Annuities.
Number two is the successful integration of Star and Edison and number three is appropriate capital management in a variety of different ways.
And those are going to drive it.
It doesn't -- it's not predicated on some change in interest rate assumptions in these sorts of things.
It's those 3 elements are the primary drivers of our outcomes.
Research Division</strong> I guess just going in to those in more detail.
The relevant contribution of each.
Are they roughly equal in size? Or are there any particular areas like capital management providing more of a boost your ROE outlook? Actually they are relatively equal in size.
1/3 1/3 and 1/3.
And on one of your other questions.
That forecast uses continued low rates.
There's not a right scenario that's -- other than as Rich described the forward curve.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's all based on the 2013 forward curve as we currently stand? Yes.
Yes and also we believe this is an achievable target.
This isn't pie in the sky.
So to your question about how confident we are we're pretty confident.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I guess a few questions just on the progression that you're talking about.
I guess what are the -- can you elaborate it all on the capital management assumptions that are being baked into the 2012 estimates? Yes.
Well 2 things.
One is I think I mentioned earlier on that we expect capital that has generated during 2012 will be deployed.
We've got a $1.5 billion buyback program in place.
So we used $750 million so far.
So as our expectation we'll complete that buyback.
New capital will be generated next year and we'll have to make sure we deploy that effectively.
But I just wanted to mention one thing that may lead back to Nigel's question but it also addresses yours.
Keep in mind that when Star/Edison comes fully online and all of the synergies are realized we had contemplated between a 60 to 70 basis point if my memory serves me correctly in an ROE lift.
So that's coming on.
In 2013 we're not going to be fully there but a big chunk of that is chipping in.
And right now -- and right now we're not getting a lot of help from that.
It may be a 0 sign but it needs a lot of help.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I'll ask it slightly differently.
If I look at the ratio of deployable capital versus the $3.5 billion that you used.
It's a ratio -- it's a free cash flow ratio of about 43%.
Would you expect that ratio to radically change in 2012? That moves around.
It depends upon the capital needs of the businesses and the one thing that ratio is missing and I would remiss not to point it out that we -- that's the pure income ratio.
What we have is our businesses do throw off capital as we change the business mix.
So for example we're exiting the interim loan business and winding down that portfolio.
We expect capital to be freed up from there.
Now that's not in the 43% free cash flow ratio that you just calculated and we've got more of that built into the plan going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally your ratios in Japan 700 POJ over 650 in Gibraltar I mean why -- what is the plan on how much capital you're going to keep overseas? I mean those feel like very high numbers.
I know there's kind of a trend upward historically but they just seem very high and what is the strategy around that? This is Ed Baird answering with a slight cold.
The ratios there are being monitored on a couple of bases.
One as you know we've always looked to maintain a top tier ratio there consistent with the competitors and what the rating agencies are looking for.
Given the fact that next year will be a change in the official calculation of the solvency margins I think at this stage it's a little too early to pick a specific number there but the sense is that somewhere between 600 and 700 will probably be the range that will be looked at as competitive and as deemed to be consistent with a AA rating.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Kligerman with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick clarifications just on the buyback.
So when you're talking about capital redeployment of $1.5 billion next year that assumes that the $1.5 billion authorization for buybacks is completed.
So in other words you'll finish that up and then you'll have another $1.5 billion next year to deploy.
Is that correct? There's an assumption of the redeployment of the capital that we generate.
It wasn't in Rich's presentation divided between organic growth acquisitions or disposition in other ways including share repurchases or dividends.
So that will be part of the judgment that we exercise next year as we go through the year and will depend on the business opportunities that are in front of us.
Right now we're operating under an authorization to repurchase $1.5 billion which ends in June and I think I've said in the past that we reconsider this often.
Capital management is something that's in front of us regularly not a discrete item that we take a look at when our authorization expires.
And it's an ongoing process.
So there's not reflected in Richard's comments or this guidance a specific implication of another $1.5 billion or not.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It seems Mark you really like your stock here.
You did have the authorization in 1 quarter.
How do you feel going forward? Do you pretty excited about buying back your stock? We exercised judgment in the recent quarter and I'm glad you're pleased with that outcome.
It's a dynamic process and we will continue to consider all of our choices in the context of the environment.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Open-ended answer there.
Let me move on to your interest rates and REO.
By year end 2014 you'd lose income of $360 million and then you mentioned Mark a number of mitigating factors.
Could you give a sort of a range or quantification of what those mitigating factors would do to the $360 million in lost income should interest rates remain where they are now? Well I described that 2014 cumulative number as an unmanaged pretax number which is how you ought to think about it.
And the immediate levers in front of us are the opportunities to further reduce crediting rates as market conditions allow as I indicated we've got about $25 billion of liability products with substantial room to reduce crediting rates meaning 100 basis points or more.
So you can do the arithmetic on that opportunity.
We also have opportunities to change our investment mix without compromising credit quality if we decided that's the path we want to go down and the market was there for us in private placements and in commercial mortgages in particular.
We also have opportunities to extend duration particularly in some of our overseas portfolios where we don't necessarily have the rate risk but where we would get the consolidated benefit.
So I don't want to scale it in the abstract but you should think of that 2014 cumulative number again as unmanaged and pretaxed.
And there are some significant things that we can do to mitigate that impact.
And by the way the rest of the company in terms of a number of core contributing items will be growing around this potential stress from the gradual decline of the yield in the general account.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted you to quantify those factors but my math and it's hard to do in this short period of time would at least slice out half of that $360 million I mean is that fair? Well I've given you a roadmap.
Research Division</strong> You've given parameters I'll work with it.
Okay.
And then just real quickly lastly Gibraltar saw the reps go from 13 400 to 12 900.
Where does that -- I know there's a lot of Star/Edison integration going on that's going to have some fall out where does that finally settle? We don't have a forecast but I can give you a context for thinking about it going forward.
I think what you'll see unfold on the Star and Edison will be very similar to what unfolded when we acquired Kyoei.
Not necessarily numerically but certainly directionally.
So for example when we took over Kyoei they had about 7 000 sales people.
We put in place our performance standards that are more consistent with the higher performance that we expect out of our traditional Gibraltar organization.
And that led to a reduction ultimately down to about 4 500 which you will notice has grown up to over 6 000 in the years since then.
I would expect without knowing what the degree would be that the direction will be similar so that what you've seen here is a reduction.
I would not expect this to be the last such reduction.
It will depend on how successful we are in providing products and training that allows them to perform at the higher level that we expect.
Our next question will come from the line of Thomas Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First I had one on the free cash flow and then another one on capital.
The -- Rich I just want to make sure I understand the numbers and ask you maybe to give a little more granularity in terms of what's behind them so I start with the $3.5 billion annual capital generation number.
The $1.5 billion that you're talking about as being free cash flow.
I should think about that as being used for either 1 of 3 things: one being buyback; two being common dividends; three being M&amp;A.
Is that -- am I starting -- and then $2 billion is to support business growth? Yes.
Specifically for 2011 you're exactly right Tom.
But just to be clear that was getting to the of end of this year.
That was going to the 12/31 position.
So that reflects the reality of our expectation of generating about $3.5 billion deploying about $2 billion of it in our businesses and about $1.5 billion through repurchases and dividends.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I if I think of it as a sustainable number a reasonable mix might be of -- this is my words I'm just curious if you'd care to comment a $1 billion buyback a $500 million common dividend.
If we're to think about splitting it up between at least what you've done historically as we think about going forward is that a reasonable mix to think about? No Tom.
I think the way you got to think about it is in the percentages moving away to dollars right? So maybe -- and I forget that might have been Mark earlier who computed the 43% free cash flow coming from operations.
So earnings throws off 43%.
We pick up a few percentage points coming out of capital freeing up of capital.
It's in the businesses.
And so we're looking at maybe like 50%.
And that's a very hard number to get to because the capital number that gets freed up each year from a more efficient use of capital by the businesses is not that predictable.
The free cash flow coming up is a little bit more predictable and maybe 43% is a little low this year maybe it's 45%.
But that's way you have to look at it.
And one other thing that I mentioned John -- one other thing I mentioned is kind of barbelled this so it's either normal organic growth M&amp;A or return to shareholders.
And that's a reasonable way to think about it in a broad sense.
But our other thought hope and expectation is there's -- there could be some other outside to organic opportunities that may be very attractive ways for us to put capital to work.
The most notable example it's in the heart of a very difficult time to quantify is in the area of pension risk transfer which is a really natural place for us to compete in.
And were in that because to materialize in a more visible way can be of a highly attractive way for our capital to go to work.
So when Rich comments about that it's sort of it's using the word normalized organic patterns of things but please appreciate.
We're thinking well beyond that in terms of potential capital applications that will be a very attractive fits for us in our business.
So don't narrow your thinking to a dollar number of $1.5 billion as redeployable every year forever.
Just a reminder on 2 things one is when we talk about this relationship between earnings and available cash that's over time remember that net income versus AOI matters and we tend to talk in the earnings world about AOI but the real capital accounts are impacted by net income.
So when we talk about this it's an over time concept and it's based on the broad relationship between net income and AOI kind of being in line.
The second point to make though is don't lose sight of the strength of our current balance sheet as you're thinking about projecting earnings.
We have finished this quarter in spite of a lot of turbulence in very good shape with respect to capital liquidity and asset quality.
And as Rich rolled forward and talked about the end of 2011 we'll go into next year with just about the same amount of excess capital that we came into this year with in spite of substantial investments in the business and in spite of what we're doing with respect to share buybacks and dividends.
So keep the static picture in mind as well.
The balance sheet is very strong.
And that balance sheet resource is what funds the capital freed up in the future of over and above the free cash flow coming out of earnings.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's clear.
And then I guess just any quantification on the $2 billion or so that you think needs to be replowed or kept in the businesses to support growth.
Can you give any sense for where exactly most of that is being held? Or what is that to support? I don't know if you can bracket it between International variable annuities and then non-US variable annuities or however you can quantify that would be helpful.
Well more than -- don't forget this is an actual number.
This isn't a projection.
We actually absorbed $2 billion of additional capital in 2011.
More than half of that's annuities and international and the rest is sprinkled amongst our other businesses.
And just to remind you we don't have international variable annuities.
I think you used that phrase.
Research Division</strong> Yes now I understood.
So -- but could you quantify how much was VA? Just out of curiosity.
No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's just in the half bucket and/or more than half bucket between international.
More than half yes.
Research Division</strong> More than half okay.
The other question I had was just on the mark-to-market impact from the quarter thinking about how it affected GAAP and I'm talking specifically about variable annuity mark-to-market reserving versus hedging how that looked on GAAP and how that translated to stat.
I guess what stood out to me Rich was the -- there was very large hedge breakage if I strip out the benefit of the NPR.
There was north of $2 billion of hedge breakage on a GAAP basis and I appreciate there's some uneconomic effects there.
But can you comment on how that affected your capital and statutory? And how we should be thinking about that? Well on a statutory basis they -- there were two -- there was an offset right? We had the duration hedges -- the derivative duration hedges which offset the negative impact.
Not entirely.
It offset partially the negative impact of the hedge breakage in one of our subs.
But all of that is taken into consideration the 500 RBC plus that I've laid out at 9/30 earlier in my remarks.
And Tom it's Mark.
I'm not going to call it hedge breakage because there are hedge differences that we accept and actually actively manage to.
There is some breakage in these numbers in the sense that some things didn't lineup as tightly as we might have liked but there also are numbers in there that reflect the general way in which we've positioned in the context of offsets that happen in other places.
As Rich mentioned the marks on the duration hedges go the other way from some of the exposures in the calculation of our living benefit liability.
Just to cut to the bottom line with respect to statutory capital there's very little impact overall and that's reflected in the RBC numbers that Rich quoted.
Some direct product-related items going one way and some other items going another way.
And you see in GAAP I understand the question about taking out NPR but at the end of the day we don't really get to take out NPR.
All in the effect on the GAAP net income statement was pretty small from the annuity picture.
We're going to in our 10-Q disclose a lot about this.
So rather than go through the line items today I'd like to talk at the macro level like we just did but you'll see a lot of transparency around the annuity results in the 10-Q.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> You mentioned repeatedly now the 500 RBC.
I guess my first question is does that going to sort of be a new placeholder or place where you plan to capitalize your flagship company to maintain your A rating? It seems pretty high relative to not only where you've been but to others how should I think effectively about that 500% number? It's kind of easy.
What happens is that the RBC builds throughout the year in PICA and then we take the dividend out in the first quarter if approved of the next year.
So towards year end you're always going to see that build up of RBC naturally and then we take it down in the first quarter of next year and it rebuilds by the end of the next year and so on and so on.
Eric this is Mark.
We believe that at 400 which is the benchmark that we have used as the threshold above which we define capital capacity we're targeting capital levels that are consistent with AA ratings not A.
And in fact I think the standard in the industry is more like 350 in terms of targeting RBC levels.
So we're conservative at our 400 target and you should not think of 500 as an operating target.
The threshold above which we define capital capacity is still 400.
LLC Research Division</strong> My second and final question relates to the future and perhaps I'm not sure of who that's going to answer this question -- maybe John.
But my second and final question relates to the future of interest rate sensitivity of the company as it relates to the business mix.
And in particular if we assume that your Asian businesses your Japan and Korean businesses will continue to be your fastest growing businesses.
And also that there will be an evolution of the business over time away from traditional mortality business on which you grew up with POJ and more towards what you're calling Retirement businesses although through the vehicle of retirement-oriented life insurance what will that change in business mix mean that I predicated or that I premised for the interest rate sensitivity of the company? Yes that's the question.
How will the change in business mix that I have posited? What will that mean for the interest rate sensitivity of the company? Eric this is Ed again.
The bottom line answer is not much of anything.
But let me explain why I say that.
We described certain products in Japan as retirement versus traditional protection.
But the underlying products are essentially the same.
They are traditional whole life products.
It's simply a matter of some of those being characterized as retirement because they have much higher cash value accumulation focus as opposed to let's say term insurance which we report into the debt protection bucket.
That would be point one.
Point two I would remind you as I know that you're very aware of that with the 1 Exception in Gibraltar we have never looked and continue not to look to investment spreads as a source of earnings in Japan.
We make our money there off of the Mortality and Expense margins.
That's the reason that you see the remarkable consistency in the earnings regardless of interest rate environment economic conditions equity markets et cetera.
So it's only in Gibraltar where we do have a good return on investment spread as a result of our having reset the crediting rates and the in-force book once we took it through the bankruptcy courts.
So the nomenclature we're using here maybe misleading you a little in thinking about Retirement products as somehow investment products as opposed to insurance products.
The fact is the vast majority of these products with the one exception of some fixed annuities is -- and even the fixed annuities by the way are NDAs to a large extent so you don't even have the risk there.
So we're getting our earnings out of MNE and we continue to do that going forward.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to come back to capital management and sort of reconcile some of the numbers we're talking about.
I guess putting into the context sort of the methodical I guess share repurchases you guys have historically done where you've been pretty consistent on a quarterly basis in the past.
So I guess should we be thinking about $750 million as the run rate? And the reason I ask is that if we think the 100 and -- sorry the $1.5 billion that you guys have available to deploy for 2011 after we think about your annual dividend it doesn't leave a lot of room for share repurchases in the fourth quarter and then also trying to reconcile the $1.5 billion versus the $2.22 billion to $2.7 billion that you say is readily deployable.
Right.
It's Mark.
Let me start with the first couple parts of it and then maybe let Rich answer the last.
We're currently operating under a total share repurchase authorization to buy back up to $1.5 billion worth of stock by the end of June of next year.
And we've said since the time that we announced this authorization that we may revisit it in the interim.
You shouldn't read anything into what we did in the third quarter other than the context that I mentioned earlier which is that we exercise judgment.
Right now the authorization is for $1.5 billion by the end of June but we'll be reconsidering the whole question of capital deployment on an ongoing basis.
Yes Chris and the second part of your question ties to the answer I gave a little bit earlier.
The excess capital that you see now I guess was the $2.2 billion to $2.7 billion that's sitting in the regulated entities in cash.
Over the early parts of next year that will be dividended up to the holding company not all of it but a lot of it.
And that's how it becomes usable in our capital deployment.
And that's going to happen every year.
Every year you're going to see the capital spent and the capital build in the next year's spent again.
But at by the end of the year it's sitting in the regulated entities for dividend approval in the early part of the next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for 2012 you had mentioned the capital that you generated you're going to deploy so we should be thinking about the upstreaming of dividends of that sort of the $2.2 billion $2.7 billion capacity plus the free cash flow you generate next year? No.
Because that free cash flow -- it's a rolling free cash flow.
Okay.
So that $2.7 billion comes up when the $2.2 billion comes up and the one that was generated last year stays down until the next year it's sequential.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I understood.
And then...
That's the assumption that underpins the guidance.
So that's how you ought to think about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you guys have mentioned sort of adjusting the AOCIs for the ROE calculation to be more consistent with your peers.
I'm wondering in terms of the DAC unlocks that you guys take certainly within annuity that's been pretty volatile as you include everything in adjusted operating income while many of your peers make -- include some of the unlocks below the line.
Have you given any thought to sort of changing that practice to maybe reduce some of the volatility consistent with peers? We're giving more thought to it leaving the DAC in -- below the line.
We're trying to be very transparent.
And portraying operating earnings in a business like annuities that has a lot of mark-to-market type numbers and what we believe are some numbers that don't necessarily reflect economics.
Going through operating earnings every quarter is a little frustrating.
But as I said we've tried to be very transparent and we've been consistent with what we're doing but we appreciate the fact that we are not necessarily aligned with industry and it's something we ought to consider.
And our final question will come from the line of Randy Binner with Friedman Billings Ramsey.
Research Division</strong> So somehow we made it through the whole conversation without mentioning the federal government and it doesn't seem that your capital management decisions on a forward basis have any pause or hesitation because of potential nonbank SIFI status.
So just want to kind of confirm that that's the case and see if you've kind of felt any shift in the vibe out of Washington obviously the banks have met and have seen a more conservative shift there.
Yes this is Mark.
We have you all along that the most important thing for us as we enter the world of regulation from someone at the federal level whether it's the Federal Reserve or someone else that the most important issue for us is that our business models be understood and that we not be pounded into a bank framework that really doesn't reflect the dynamics of our financial structure or the business models that we're managing.
And I think that's more important than whether or not we have a label of SIFI or not and I still think that's more important.
In that respect I would say that we're having a sense that the environment's pretty constructive.
I believe that we'll have a good faith  opportunity to engage on that topic to think about what we look like to think about setting and calibrating metrics and to understand the differences between Prudential as it looks and banks as they look.
So the general tone of things in that respect I think is favorable in the sense of the opportunity to engage and think about it the right way.
Remember that financial strength is part of our value proposition.
So transparent high-quality regulation can be very important for us and we want to be a constructive part of that process.
And so the opportunity to have a good outcome is important for us in our business and important for us in our business models.
With respect to the potential to be a SIFI there are a couple of different issues there.
One is the broad question of oversight as it would relate to I think particularly the holding company and the unregulated subs which is kind of a hot topic in light of the experience with AIG in the financial crisis.
And another questions relate to setting and calibrating metrics.
You heard us talk about how far over regulatory minimums we generally run and our view is that we want to be strong from a capital perspective.
And I'd be surprised if there's a disagreement that results in a punitive type capital structure for Prudential.
We already operate at literally multiples of the regulatory standards.
So the context there really isn't what kind of "penalty" in quotes might we have imposed above the current level of capital.
It's really what might the standard look like versus current standards and we're very strong versus current standards just about no matter how you measure it.
We're not currently in the same category as the bank holding company.
So in that respect we don't have the same kinds of issues that some other companies have but I think we have the opportunity to work constructively on this and we'd be surprised if it turns out to be something that's really in the end of the day is a problem for us.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then just one quick follow up to kind of bottom line it.
If you do quite likely to become a nonbank SIFI then you would keep the current risk-based capital format and not have to use a tier 1 format.
That would be the key difference right? Well we don't know.
That whole question of setting and calibrating metrics is very much an open issue.
But having said that I have the sense that there is respect for the functional regulators.
Meaning the state regulators as it relates to our insurance companies and I hope we wouldn't throw that out.
The RBC system has withstood the test of time and served the industry very well.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen today's conference call will be available for replay after 2 p.m.
today until Thursday midnight November 10.
You may access the AT&amp;T TeleConference replay system by dialing (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 194717.
International participants dial 320-365-3844.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the first quarter 2012 earnings teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Eric Durant.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much and thanks to all of you for joining our call.
In order to help you to understand Prudential Financial we will make some forward-looking statements in the following presentation.
It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today.
Additional information regarding factors that cause such a difference appears in the section titled Forward-Looking Statements on Non-GAAP Measures of our earnings press release for the first quarter of 2012 which can be found on our website at www.investor.prudential.com.
In addition in managing our businesses we use a non-GAAP measure we call adjusted operating income to measure the performance of our Financial Services businesses.
Adjusted operating income excludes net investment gains and losses as adjusted and related charges and adjustments as well as results from divested businesses.
Adjusted operating income also excludes recorded changes in asset values that are expected to ultimately accrue to contract holders and recorded changes in contract holder liabilities resulting from changes in related asset values.
Our earnings per share press release contains information -- our earnings press release contains information about our definition of adjusted operating income.
The comparable GAAP presentation and the reconciliation between the 2 for the quarter are set out in our earnings press release on our website.
Additional historical information relating to the company's financial performance is also located on our website.
Representing Prudential on today's call are John Strangfeld CEO; Mark Grier Vice Chairman; Rich Carbone Chief Financial Officer; Charlie Lowrey Head of Domestic Businesses; Ed Baird Head of International Businesses; and Peter Sayre Controller and Principal Accounting Officer.
We'll begin with prepared comments and then we'll take your questions.
John? Thank you Eric.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
Rich and Mark will review our financial results with you in detail in a few minutes.
I'd like to begin with some high-level comments on the quarter and on our outlook.
Our earnings this quarter reflected our poor results in Group Insurance.
With that important exception underlying performance of our businesses and the company overall continues to be favorable.
As you know Group Insurance includes life and disability operations.
In Group Disability we have clear performance issues and we are moving aggressively to address and correct them.
On the other hand Group Life has generally been performing reasonably well.
Although we had an unfavorable underwriting result this quarter we believe this resulted in adverse fluctuation not an indication of fundamental deterioration in the business.
You may have seen the Group Insurance is under new leadership effective last month.
Steve Pelletier a proven executive who most recently ran our annuities business is now at the helm reporting to Charlie Lowrey.
Bob O'Donnell has succeeded Steve as head of the Prudential Annuities.
Bob is intimately familiar with our annuities business and is ideally suited to his new role.
Under Steve's leadership you can be sure that we will be comprehensively reviewing all facets of Group Insurance and will make all needed changes.
Our other businesses are doing well.
In Annuities sales for the quarter amounted to just under $5 billion essentially in line with their levels since last year second quarter.
Stripping out the benefit of favorable unlockings earnings increased from last year's strong first quarter.
In Retirement flows in institutional investment products remain strong marginally because of growth in our investment-only wrap products.
Our sales again included a meaningful longevity reinsurance case as we continue to pursue attractive pension risk transfer businesses.
In full service retirement we again experienced net outflows from case activities as we are maintaining pricing discipline in a highly competitive environment.
Asset management once again recorded excellent institutional and retail flows.
Although variable sources of earnings were relatively unfavorable this quarter this business continues to perform well.
Individual Life also delivered solid earnings this quarter and a healthy increase in sales as our competitors have raised prices making our products more competitive.
Finally International Insurance is benefiting from business growth and cost savings from the Star and Edison integration.
Sales are strong in all distribution channels: captive agents banks and independent agencies.
All in all Prudential is performing well with the exception of Group Insurance which we are addressing.
In addition our balance sheet and capital position remain significant sources of strength and flexibility and it's still early days in 2012.
As for our 2013 ROE goal 13% to 14% we never said it would be easy and we still believe it's achievable.
We look forward to seeing you May 22 at our New York Investor Day.
And with that I'd like to turn it over to Rich Carbone.
Rich? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
We reported common stock earnings per share of $1.56 in the first quarter based on adjusted operating income and of course that's for the financial services business.
This compares to $1.62 per share in the year-ago quarter and both periods give effect to the new accounting standard for debt.
We have only 2 items 2 market-driven discrete items affecting this quarter.
In the annuities business the equity market increase in the quarter caused us to release a portion of our reserve for guaranteed minimum debt and income benefits and led to a favorable DAC unlocking resulting in a benefit totaling $0.30 per share.
Going the other way in International Insurance Gibraltar Life absorbed integration costs of $0.08 per share relating to the Star and Edison acquisition.
In total the items I just mentioned had a net favorable impact of about $0.22 per share on results.
Year-ago quarter benefited about $0.23 per share from the impact of favorable unlockings and reserve releases and a gain on the partial sale of our indirect investment in China Pacific Group.
These were partially offset by transaction and integration costs of $0.08 per share related to the Star and Edison acquisition and costs from the earthquake and tsunami disaster in Japan.
Taking these items out of both quarters EPS comparison would be $1.34 for the current quarter versus $1.39 for the quarter a year ago.
This comparison as John mentioned is adversely affected by Group Insurance primarily from adverse claims experience and from asset management related to what we call ITSICOM [ph] that's incentive transaction strategic investing and commercial mortgage activities.
These 2 businesses had a negative impact of about $0.17 per share in comparison to the year-ago quarter.
And Mark will cover this in more detail in his remarks.
Moving to the GAAP results of our Financial Services business we reported a net loss of $988 million or $2.09 per share.
For the first quarter this compares to net income of $539 per share -- million per share -- that'd be great -- $539 million or $1.10 per share a year ago.
The net loss for the quarter includes amounts characterized as pretax net realized investment losses of $1.8 billion.
This compares to $375 million or pretax net realized investment losses in the year-ago quarter.
The main driver of the $1.8 billion current quarter loss was $1.5 billion of asset and liability value changes driven essentially by currency fluctuations.
Now for those CPAs in the room if you pay attention here we'll give you CPA credits for the rest of the next few paragraphs.
We regard this as a noneconomic accounting driven by U.S.
dollar and other non-yen liabilities on the books of the Japanese companies.
For example we have significant U.S.
dollar-denominated products in our Japanese businesses.
These assets and liabilities -- the assets and liabilities associated with these products are both denominated in U.S.
dollars.
When the value of the yen changes versus the U.S.
dollar the change in U.S.
dollar liabilities on the Japanese books runs through the yen income statement.
This is noneconomic because our liability is in U.S.
dollars and is matched with U.S.
dollar assets so nothing is happening.
In consolidation back to U.S.
dollars this income statement impact is offset by an adjustment made to OCI a component of equity not through the income statement.
The end result is that our GAAP equity which includes OCI AOCI is essentially neutral despite the volatility in reported net income.
The impact of this accounting geography is greater than in the past because of our non-yen business that came to us with the Star/Edison acquisition.
The remaining $300 million of the $1.8 billion of realized losses came from net losses of $291 million in product-related hedging activities and $128 million of impairments and credit losses partly offset by net gains of general portfolio activities.
Book value per share on a GAAP basis amounted to $70.80 at the end of the first quarter this compares to $69.07 at year-end.
Our current and historical values all reflect new DAC accounting change or standard.
At the end of the first quarter gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturities were $2.7 billion down from $4.3 billion at year-end and we were at a net unrealized gain position of $13 billion.
Book value per share excluding total accumulated other comprehensive income declined $2.17 from year end and amounted to $55.85 at the end of the first quarter.
We are now excluding all of AOCI from our ROE calculations which we believe is consistent with our peers.
Now turning to our capital position.
First I will focus on the insurance companies.
We continue to manage these entities to capital levels consistent what we believe are AA standards.
As of year-end Prudential Insurance reported RBC ratio of 491%.
The total adjusted capital of DAC of $12 billion on a statutory basis.
We don't do a quarterly -- a quarterly bottoms-up calculation of RBC but I can tell you that the key drivers of statutory capital have not materially changed since year end.
We have not yet taken a dividend for Prudential Insurance so far this year.
Our Japanese insurance companies will soon report solvency margins as of their March fiscal year end based on the new calculation method which is now effective.
As a result of the merger of the Star/Edison -- Star and Edison companies into Gibraltar as of January 1 Gibraltar solvency margins will reflect the absorption of the acquired companies.
While the calculations are not final we estimate that both Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar will report solvency margins in the 700% range.
These solvency margins are strong in relation to our targets and will continue to position our companies as well-capitalized and financially secure insurers.
Looking at the overall capital position for the Financial Services business we calculated our on-balance sheet capital capacity by comparing the statutory capital position in Prudential Insurance that I've mentioned a moment ago to 400 RBC ratio benchmark and then add capital capacity at the parent and other subsidiaries.
As of year end we estimated that our on balance sheet capital capacity was about $4 billion to $4.5 billion.
It does not change materially through the end of this quarter.
We also estimated that as of year end about half of the $404.5 billion of capital capacity was readily deployable.
This proportion has not changed substantially through the end of the first quarter either.
Considering the impact of our results the capital we've deployed in our businesses and the $250 million we returned to shareholders through our share repurchase program.
In the aggregate we have repurchased $1 250 000 000 under the current $1.5 billion authorization which extends through June of 2012.
Turning to the cash position the cash position at the parent company -- cash and short-term investments at the parent net of outstanding commercial paper amounted to $3 billion at the end of the quarter.
We continue to target maintaining a $1 billion cushion at the parent company.
The excess of our cash position over this target is available to repay maturing debt fund the operating expense -- operating needs and expenses obviously and to be redeployed over time.
And Mark will cover our businesses in detail.
Thank you Rich and John and good morning good afternoon or good evening.
I'll start with our U.S.
businesses.
Our Annuity business reported adjusted operating income of $421 million for the first quarter compared to $274 million a year ago.
The reserve  true-ups and DAC unlocking that Rich mentioned had a net favorable impact of $196 million on current quarter results.
This includes the benefit of $136 million from the release of a portion of our reserves for guaranteed minimum death  and income benefits and a further benefit of $60 million from reduced amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs in both cases reflecting favorable market performance.
Results for the year-ago quarter included a net benefit of $58 million from a favorable DAC unlocking and reserve true-ups also largely driven by favorable markets.
Stripping out the unlockings and true-ups annuity results were $225 million for the current quarter compared to $216 million a year ago for an increase of $9 million.
This increase represents the net effect of growth in our fees currently offset by a higher level of base DAC amortization and by higher expenses in the current quarter.
Policy charges and fee income for the quarter increased $51 million or 12% from a year ago reflecting an increase of $10 billion in average variable annuity separate account values driven by $11.6 billion in net sales over the past year.
The benefit of higher fees in the current quarter was partly offset by a higher base level of DAC amortization.
While  favorable markets have driven improvements in our amortization factors since our negative unlocking in the third quarter of last year we are still amortizing DAC at a more rapid pace than a year ago.
In addition current quarter expenses were higher than a year ago partly as a result of business development costs and spending on initiatives.
Our gross variable annuity sales for the quarter were just under $5 billion.
This compares to the record high $6.8 billion we recorded a year ago when new business was bolstered by sales in advance of the repricing of our annuity product in early 2011.
We are comfortable with our sales level which has remained in a band of roughly $4.5 billion to $5 billion over each of the past 4 quarters.
While several other companies have recently began to embrace product-based risk management strategies our highest daily protected value feature coupled with auto-rebalancing tailored to each customer's account has a proven track record of more than 5 years with clients and their advisors.
The popularity of our HD products has driven a continuing improvement in our risk profile.
At the end of the first quarter about 83% of our account values with living benefits add the auto-rebalancing feature.
This compares to 78% a year ago and just under 70% 2 years ago.
The auto-rebalancing feature performed very well over the most recent market cycle.
In the third quarter of last year when the S&amp;P declined 14% roughly $17 billion of client funds were moved by our algorithm to the safety of fixed income investments mainly investment-grade bond funds with relatively short duration protecting account values from severe market declines.
Through the end of the first quarter over $13 billion of these funds were returned to client-selected investments allowing participation in equity market increases.
Retirement segment reported adjusted operating income of $156 million for the current quarter compared to $172 million a year ago.
The decrease reflected a lower contribution from investment results as the impact of lower reinvestment yields over the course of the past year was partly offset by crediting rate reductions we implemented in our full-service stable value business in January of this year.
The benefit to current quarter results from higher fees reflecting account value growth in Institutional investment products was essentially offset by a lower contribution of about $10 million of mortality-driven case experience on our traditional retirement products.
Total retirement gross deposits and sales were $9 billion for the quarter.
This compares to $10.6 billion a year ago.
Full service retirement gross deposits and sales were $4.6 billion for the quarter roughly in line with a year ago.
We continue to see limited activity in the mid- to large-case market which is our major focus.
We are maintaining pricing discipline in a highly competitive environment.
2 large case lapses totaling $1.5 billion contributed to net outflows for our full-service business of about $2.5 billion for the quarter.
Standalone Institutional gross sales amounted to $4.4 billion in the current quarter compared to $5.8 billion a year ago.
During the year ago quarter and the remainder of 2011 we experienced exceptionally strong flows of stable value wrap products sold to plan sponsors on a standalone basis.
Clients added substantial funds to wrap programs established earlier.
Sales of these products amounted to $3.5 billion in the current quarter compared to $5.3 billion a year ago.
Current quarter sales also included a nearly $700 million longevity reinsurance case in the emerging defined benefit risk transfer market where we are developing innovative solutions to help plan sponsors and benefit providers manage the risks of defined benefit pension plans.
Overall net additions for the retirement business were about $400 million for the quarter and account values stood at a record high $240 billion at the end of the quarter up 12% from a year ago.
The asset management business reported adjusted operating income of $121 million for the current quarter compared to $154 million a year ago.
While most of the segment's earnings come from asset management fees the decline in earnings in relation to the year-ago quarter was mainly driven by a decrease of about $35 million in the contribution from ITSICOM [ph].
As Rich mentioned results from incentive transaction strategic investing in commercial mortgage activities which fluctuate and are partly driven by changing valuations and the timing of transactions.
The current quarter reflects declines in the value of several investments mainly co-investments and real estate funds we manage while results for the year-ago quarter benefited from gains of about $15 million from sales of foreclosed properties.
Lower contribution from ITSICOM [ph] activities together with higher expenses in the current quarter more than offset the benefit of higher asset management fees in the quarter driven by growth in assets under management.
The segment's assets under management reached a record high $637 billion as of the end of the quarter up $68 billion or 12% from the year-earlier.
The increase in assets under management reflected cumulative market appreciation and positive net flows in each of the past 4 quarters.
Adjusted operating income for our Individual Life Insurance business was $112 million for the current quarter compared to $98 million a year ago.
Mortality experience for the current quarter was slightly less favorable than our average expectations and improved in relation to the year-ago quarter driving the increase in results.
Our mortality experience fluctuates from one quarter to another cumulative experience for the past 4 quarters has been essentially in-line with our expectations.
Individual life sales based on annualized new business premiums amounted to  $79 million for the current quarter up from $65 million a year ago.
The increase was driven by third-party sales and reflects our improved relative competitive position in the universal life market and growth in term insurance sales through intermediaries working with financial institutions.
The Group Insurance business reported a loss of $38 million in the current quarter compared to adjusted operating income of $39 million a year ago.
Adverse fluctuation in Group Life claims experience less favorable Group Disability underwriting results and higher expenses each contributed to the earnings decline.
The current quarter group life benefits ratio of 95.4% represents our most unfavorable experience in the last 5 years and immediately follows the fourth quarter benefits ratio of 86% our most favorable experience in the past 5 years.
As a frame of reference we regard group life benefits ratios of between 88% and 92% to be roughly the expected range.
The unfavorable group life experience in the current quarter was mainly driven by larger average claim size in relation to our average historical experience.
Claims severity can fluctuate from one quarter to another and no particular block of business was found to be the main driver of the fluctuation this quarter.
We would not consider the experience of this quarter to be sufficient to support any conclusions as to group life results going forward.
In Group Disability we are continuing to see an elevated incidence of new claims and the benefit to results from claim terminations was below the level of a year ago.
Group Insurance sales for the quarter were $313 million including $211 million for group life.
This compares to a total of $500 million a year ago including a major case win that contributed about $180 million.
More than 3/4 of our group life sales in the current quarter were voluntary representing coverage purchased by employees or association members rather than employer paid insurance.
Turning now to our international businesses.
Gibraltar Life's adjusted operating income was $224 million in the current quarter compared to $328 million a year ago.
As Rich mentioned Gibraltar's current quarter results absorbed $57 million of integration costs for the Star and Edison acquisitions.
We continue to expect about $500 million of integration costs over a 5-year period including roughly $200 million in 2012 to achieve targeted annual cost savings of about $250 million after the business integration is completed.
Results for the year-ago quarter included income of $153 million from the partial sale of our indirect investment in China Pacific Group by the Carlyle consortium.
And our year-ago results absorbed $47 million of Star and Edison transaction and integration costs.
Excluding the transaction and integration costs and the year-ago China Pacific gain Gibraltar's adjusted operating income was up $59 million from a year ago.
This increase reflects business growth and cost savings from business integration synergies partly offset by a less favorable level of policy benefits.
In addition foreign currency exchange rates including the impact of our hedging program contributed $10 million to the increase in earnings from a year ago.
We are benefiting from business growth across all of our channels: active agents banks and independent agencies.
We now call Gibraltar's captive agents life consultants after combining the Star/Edison and Gibraltar's sales forces when we merged entities on January 1 of this year.
This growth is being driven by both protection and retirement products and includes a full quarter contribution from the Star and Edison businesses which are now included within Gibraltar.
Results for the year-ago quarter included the initial month of operations of Star and Edison.
Current quarter results reflect about $30 million of cost savings achieved thus far as a result of the business integration which is well on-track.
These savings were driven largely by consolidation of field offices integration of systems platforms and reduction of support staff.
The benefits from business growth and cost savings were partly offset by a less favorable level of policy benefits in the current quarter which we estimate to be a negative of about $30 million in the comparison.
This reflects less favorable mortality in relation to strong year-ago quarter experience and a lower contribution from accident and health products.
Our Life Planner business reported adjusted operating income of $382 million for the current quarter compared to $300 million a year ago.
Results for the year-ago quarter included a charge of $19 million for the estimated impact of the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami disaster in Japan.
Excluding this charge results were up $63 million from a year ago.
Current quarter results benefited from continued business growth.
On a constant dollar basis insurance revenues including premiums policy charges and fees were up 9% from a year ago.
More favorable level of policy benefits in the current quarter which we estimate to be a positive of about $20 million in the comparison including mortality and reserve true-ups also contributed to the earnings increase.
In addition foreign currency exchange rates contributed $12 million to the increase in earnings from a year ago.
International Insurance sales on a constant dollar basis reached a record high of $819 million for the first quarter compared to $660 million a year ago.
Our current quarter sales reflect expanding distribution the attractiveness of our products in the protection and retirement markets and a few factors relating to market developments and updating of our product portfolio.
Gibraltar Life sales were $439 million in the current quarter up $76 million from a year ago.
Bank channel sales contributed $50 million of the increase driven primarily by protection products.
Our Single Premium Whole Life products which have been popular in the bank channel gained momentum as a major Japanese competitor limited its sales of the yen-based Single Premium Whole Life products through banks.
The remainder of the increase or $26 million came from the life consultant channel mainly driven by greater sales of our U.S.
dollar retirement income products.
Sales from the independent agency channel amounted to $76 million for the current quarter unchanged from a year ago.
Strong current quarter sales of cancer Whole Life products in the business market in anticipation of a tax law change were largely offset by our discontinuation of certain products that were popular in this channel as part of our integration of the product portfolios.
Life planner sales were $380 million in the current quarter up $83 million from a year ago.
Sales by life planners in Japan were up $76 million including about $50 million from U.S.
dollar and Japanese yen-based retirement income products.
Our yen-based retirement income products are gaining popularity in the business market for use in benefit plans contributing to sales growth.
The remainder of the sales increase in Japan came mainly from cancer Whole Life products which are also popular in the business market served by our life planners.
Similarly to Gibraltar sales of these products in the current quarter reflected purchases in advance of an expected tax law change.
Life planner sales outside of Japan were up $7 million or 9% from a year ago.
In March we announced reductions in crediting rates with Gibraltar's U.S.
dollar-denominated products effective April 1.
And in early April we advised our life planners of similar pricing changes on Prudential of Japan U.S.
dollar products to be effective in June.
While we cannot estimate the near-term impact of these pricing adjustments it is reasonable to assume some degree of sales acceleration into the first half of this year due to repricing activity.
Corporate and Other operations reported a loss of $363 million for the current quarter compared to a $269 million loss a year ago.
The increased loss in the current quarter came mainly from higher interest costs reflecting a greater level of capital debt reflecting our deployment of debt proceeds in our businesses; a charge of about $20 million in the current quarter to increase our reserves for our estimate of unreported debt claims based on application of matching criteria to the Social Security death file; a lower pension credit; and higher expenses including nonlinear items such as corporate advertising.
To sum up our U.S.
Retirement Solutions and asset management businesses are continuing to benefit from growth in account values and assets under management driven by solid net flows ending the quarter with record high account values in annuities and retirement and record high assets under management in the asset management business.
While business fundamentals remain strong the comparison of  results to a year ago reflect items that can vary from one quarter to another such as investment valuations and transactions in asset management which were a lower contributor in the current quarter.
Results from our U.S.
Protection businesses were negatively affected in the quarterly comparison by an adverse fluctuation in group life claims experience and less favorable Group Disability results.
And our international businesses are performing well benefiting from expanding distribution across multiple channels and cost savings from business integration synergies well in-line with our targets.
Thank you for your interest in Prudential.
Now we look forward to hearing your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see I guess firstly about regulations.
So in particular curious on the status of deregistering as your savings and loan to automatically -- or to not automatically qualify for Volcker sort of what are your learning from the processes we're seeing around net in terms of the challenges in dealing with some of the regulators? And then lastly how are you positioning around potential for nonbank SIFI? This is Mark.
Quickly on the first one we're absolutely on-track with respect to the transactions and processes associated with de-thrifting which isn't actually a word.
But we anticipate the completion of that process on schedule this summer.
In terms of the lessons from watching what's happened to Met I don't want to comment specifically on line items and there's been a lot of discussions picking at the different parts of the framework and the way questions get asked.
But I'd just emphasize that our view all along has been that the basic banking-type approach to balance sheet and stress tests will not be appropriate to apply to an insurance business for a variety of reasons related to the nature of assets and liabilities and the way in which risk is actually realized.
And also I'd add the long-duration nature of both sides of the balance sheet.
And I think if we're learning a lesson it's that that hypothesis is right.
That basic framework doesn't work very well.
You wind up with the need to make a lot of exceptions and explain a lot of things that just don't make sense because there's an application of basic rules of the road that just don't fit very well with respect to the insurance business model versus the bank business model.
We have filed comments in response to  the Fed's NPRs consistent with that statement and consistent with what we've said all along which is it's more important that we get this right and that we fight over the labels that get put on one company or another.
And I continue to believe that that's true.
And we've provided pretty thoughtful discussion of the way in which we think the right framework differs from the pure cookie-cutter banking-type framework and looking at businesses like ours.
And again I would say if anything we're learning that it really is true that it doesn't work very well.
And then finally on the question of nonbank SIFI we're part of the process.
With respect to commenting on the latter we continue to attempt to engage with respect to opportunities to educate and discuss our business models and the way in which risk comes through for us and as a result of that how we think we should be looking at solvency and stress test-type questions.
And I expect that we'll have the opportunity as we go through the process to discuss both issue around whether or not we should be designated as a SIFI and within that context how we should be approached in terms of understanding the solvency measures and criteria.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just quickly on variable annuities.
In the past you've had an appetite and I guess some success around acquiring certain blocks of business from AllState and Skandia.
So it seems like every month someone wants to get out of this business.
So curious if you would be willing to acquire something in the VA space? I would say that with our highest daily value strategy that we are very comfortable with that and would not be especially domestically interested in acquiring any other VA block of business.
We certainly wouldn't be looking for standalone books this is Mark.
Just elaborate a little bit.
I guess if there were something in it incidental to a very compelling story we'd have to think about it.
But we're certainly not in the market to buy variable annuity books.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> On capital management maybe I'll ask the question this way.
John in your opening remarks you reiterated the 13% to 14% ROE target as achievable in 2013 within that with obviously a contribution from capital deployment.
And I guess my question is has there been any change in the pace or quantity of capital deployment in relation to those original expectations? Mark let me answer that question more broadly and then I'll come to the capital piece of it because I think it is important to elaborate on how -- why and how we have the conviction we do about our ROE aspirations and capital's certainly one of the elements.
When we talked about this in the past we've been very consistent in saying there's really 3 things that are going to enable us to achieve our goals for ROE expansion.
One is the superior business mix and the strong performance of our high ROE businesses.
Second is the deal-related synergies in Star/Edison and the third is the capital management.
So let me -- by expanding slightly let me just hit each of those 3 briefly particularly in the context of where we are in this quarter.
Superior business mix thesis holds.
If you look at our international businesses which now represent nearly 50% of our earnings we had strong performance and exceptional fundamentals.
If you think about our asset management businesses we're feeling very very good about that business as well.
The variable component of revenue was less strong this quarter than it sometimes been and that will fluctuate.
But in terms of the overall vital signs investment performance asset flows and revenue growth of base level fees that business is doing very well and we have no different change in our thinking regarding the prospects for the return potential in that business.
Annuities life retirement they're strong as well.
So Group clearly has been unhelpful in its performance in recent times and we recognize that.
But we have to keep in mind that business is the smallest of our reporting segments which represents in a good year 5% to 7% of our earnings.
So that while we're very intent on fixing it and I don't mean to minimize it at all.
It's not driving our overall business mix element of the achievement of our ROE.
The second piece which I'll hit much more briefly is Star/Edison you've heard from our comments that that's an important part of our retaining our ROE aspiration and that holds absolutely true as well.
And then the third piece that you specifically surfaced Mark was the capital management fees and that's a combination of investing in our businesses opportunistic M&amp;A returning -- also opportunistic divestitures which you've seen us do as well as well as returning shares to our -- returning cash to our shareholders as well.
And it's a blend and we continue to view it that way.
So when I think of the overall picture and then taking expansive approach to your questions between the business mix and deal-related synergies on Star/Edison and the strong capital management all 3 of those remain essential elements to what we aspire to do and we're holding the course of our expectations and aspirations.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe just one quick follow-up for Rich.
Rich I was a little surprised that the readily deployable capital component didn't increase.
And I thought you did a transaction earlier in the quarter -- first quarter around RMBS that may have moved some money from capital capacity to readily deployable.
Am I wrong about that? Or why didn't readily deployable capital go up? That wasn't -- the REMI [ph] transaction only added to operating debt and it's going to be used to fund the operating needs throughout the year.
It didn't add to capital debt.
It was operating debt.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First question I had was on Gibraltar.
And John I know you had mentioned the benefit ratio went up on a year-over-year basis.
But even when I look at the last several quarters the benefit ratio relative to total revenues in Gibraltar was fairly elevated.
Just curious is there anything unusual in that number that we should think about? Is there seasonality at all product mix shift? Anything you can elaborate just in terms of that one particular metric.
Because I know DAC amortization was higher but this is not DAC amortization I'm referring to.
Yes Tom this is Ed.
This is an element of all of the above as you would imagine.
As always seasonality is a factor yes you're right.
Product mix that's a factor and there's probably more of that going on now than usual because you have the Star/Edison life consultants moving away from their old company products to the Gibraltar products so you have a lot of that.
And then you have the normal fluctuation that takes place on a book this size.
So when we filter through all of those moving factors we don't see anything going on there that's of the slightest concern to us frankly.
It's a very steady book of business very consistent profitability very comfortable with what's going on particularly in light of the magnitude of change that's taking place this is actually very minor.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just as a follow-up are all of the bank sales done through Gibraltar or do some of those come through POJ? They're all done through Gibraltar Tom.
So POJ is not involved at all.
And the way it works just to take you inside the structure of it.
We actually have a third company which you're probably familiar with we call it Prudential Gibraltar Financial but it's part of the Gibraltar segment.
So it operates as a separate company.
All of our new business on banks is being done through that company but it's all reported through Gibraltar; the Gibraltar subsidiary.
POJ never has done any bank business.
The reason that it may even be a question in your mind is that we have taken and consistently have taken life planners out of the POJ organization and have transferred them over to Gibraltar to be seconded to the banks.
But that's the only connection between POJ and any of the bank business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just looking at the supplement it looks like sales are now half bank half Gibraltar.
So that would be the split.
And I guess just on a related note is there any meaningful mix shift going on in terms of more retirement-oriented products versus mortality within that -- within Gibraltar? Not so much within Gibraltar.
There is -- that is a steady trend kind of across-the-board that you're referencing.
And it's one of the reasons you see the average premium going up.
I would say it's more a phenomenon driving details inside POJ which as you see have for several years now in particular in this quarter grown very steadily.
It's not so much the growth in headcount which as you see remains relatively small and yet you hit double-digit growth in sales.
That's coming from the double-digit growth in the average premium.
But in the Gibraltar side of it it tends to be more on the traditional protection side particularly over in the teachers association which represents about half of it.
And then inside the bank channel you get a mix of both protection and retirement.
You get a combination of the 2.
The bank channel does remain oh about 80% insurance very small portion of other products either A&amp;H or annuity.
Our next question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to talk about the losses in disability and hoping you can share with us kind of some sense of what is driving the higher loss results in the last couple of quarters if it's frequency severity case size just to give some sense of kind of what's gone wrong in the underwriting there? Sure we're happy to do that.
Let me provide some overall context to the disability as well and I'll talk little bit about life because I think they're very different issues.
But over the past couple of years the disability ratio has been moving up.
But let me give you some context to previous years because the disability ratio was 86% 87% and 89% in 2007 '08 and '09 respectively.
In 2010 it did jump to 95%.
We started to look at it then.
We thought that in part it was due to the economy.
By the beginning of 2010 this was clearly on people's radar screen -- or by '11 excuse me by the beginning of 2011.
So by June of 2011 we had hired a consultant to review the pricing the processes the procedures and in fact are raising pricing.
So the first point want make because I don't want people to think that we woke up yesterday and were surprised by the benefit ratio.
We have had our eye on this for a while.
Now we do think we can contribute part of this to the economy.
That explanation is obviously getting a little bit long in the tooth.
So again as part of your question we're continuing to experience some of the same issues we've described before especially on the long-term disability side which is higher severity higher incidence and lower terminations.
And terminations -- the terminations that are occurring are for lower amounts resulting in smaller reserve releases.
So what we've concluded is that we can't expect these results to self-correct totally on an improving economy.
So we have been and remain in the process of repricing a book.
Obviously that won't happen overnight as cases are into 2 to 3 years.
So it will take a while essentially for the lump to move through the snake but we've been working on this for a while.
In addition as John mentioned we brought in Steve Pelletier one of our most experienced managers to run the business.
And I think this says a lot about the seriousness with which we're taking the issue.
So we've asked Steve to come in and re-examine everything see if we missed something.
So I hope you take away from this part of the explanation of our current performance is that we recognize that we have an issue and that we're dealing with it.
But let me also talk about the life side of the business which John touched on for a minute because this is a very very different part of the equation.
In this business as you know the benefit ratio tends to be seasonally weaker in the first quarter than in the fourth quarter.
And as Mark said this was certainly true in this quarter but to an even greater extent than we'd expect from a seasonal basis.
We went from the benefit ratio in the fourth quarter that was the best in 5 years to a benefit ratio in the first quarter was the worst in 5 years.
And clearly the composition of the block of business didn't change significantly in one quarter's time.
And interestingly over the longer term the 5-year average benefit ratio for this business was just over 89%.
So it's been reasonably steady over that 5-year period which is to say that when you look at the experience in the first quarter which is primarily for an increase in severity not in incidence.
And by the way we've actually had the actuaries scrub this data.
We don't see anything that will lead us to believe that there's anything but a one-off -- that this is anything but a one-off quarter which would not imply a continuation of elevated benefit levels.
Having said that we're doing a lot introspection.
And again asked Steve to look to make sure that no stone's unturned in terms of looking at all the issues and make sure that our premise is correct.
So that would be kind of the discussion of the 2 sides of the coin if you will.
And I hope that answers your question.
Research Division</strong> I have one quick follow-up.
What kind of price increases would you expect to push through that block? And if you've already started them what's been the reaction of the market to the price increases? Well the price increases have been in the low-double digits on average.
I mean you have some that are less than that some that have more than that.
And I think from the market's perspective I think you're seeing a lot of people increase prices so I think this is par for the course.
Our next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Some of my questions were answered but I had one on the --  the ITSICOM [ph] revenues in your asset management business they were a little light this quarter.
So if you could just talk about what were some of the factors that caused that rather by-product or geography? And then also what you your expectations are for that business if you've in fact had some losses in Europe given what's going on in the European economy and Asia? Sure happy to do that.
Basically it was a tough quarter-over-quarter comparison right on ITSICOM because last year we had a boost from gains on foreclosed real estate assets in the interim portfolio which provide a significant amount of gains.
And this year we had a drag from valuation declines on certain properties in funds especially in Europe and Asia that was the main cause and specific properties in a few funds.
But I'd say looking forward to the economic conditions in Europe are affecting valuations of property which may continue to affect ITSICOM [ph] going forward.
As John and Mark both have said this is a volatile segment and it will go up and down.
We've reduced the size of the proprietary investing significantly or strategic investing significantly over the past few years but there's still inherent volatility.
We still have some legacy investments that will go up and down.
Having said that the other thing I would mention is what John touched on originally which is the quality of flows within the Asset Management segment.
We experienced significant positive flows of $8.6 billion $4.5 billion of which were Institutional.
And $3.2 billion which were retail.
The interesting thing about the retail said was about 50-50 fixed income and equity.
I think what that reflects is one it's very good investment performance but 2 our investment over the past few years in the retail business.
So that's led us to 12 consecutive quarters of record AUM and record asset management fees going forward.
So I think for the business as a whole it's doing reasonably well.
But I think it's fair to say that we will experience and continue to experience a certain amount of volatility in ITSICOM.
And part of that could be because of what's going on with Europe.
We'll just wait and see.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the 401-K and the full-service or retirement business your flows have not been that great for the last several quarters actually and I think you mentioned in the call that you're seeing high competition in that market.
Could you elaborate a little bit on what you're seeing there and what your views are for that business? Sure.
Absolutely.
On the full-service side we're not seeing a lot of turnover -- plan turnover.
So there's not a plan -- a lot of plans out there and we're still seeing a fair amount of price checking in the marketplace.
So we're starting to see a few more RFPs but we're not sure whether those are price checking or real.
We'll wait and see on that.
But you can really categorize the negative net flows of 4 different categories and we look at this every single quarter and analyze it in detail what the negative flows have been.
So let me give you some categories and some percentages.
The first  one would be M&amp;A or bankruptcy right? And 50% of our outflows were because of M&amp;A and bankruptcy where we're just on the side of the acquiree not the acquirer and so you lose the plan.
The second would be relationship changes and this is a smaller percentage but we're a plan sponsor.
If there's somebody new that comes in or a new consultant comes in and they just want to make change of some sort.
The third is interesting.
The third is pricing and we talked about that.
And 60% of the cases we lost were below our target range or our target return that we would like.
Now obviously 60% and 50% that of the more than 110%.
So some of the M&amp;A cases we lost puts us in the guise better be lucky than smart.
Some of those cases were below our target rate of return.
But we really do look at that very very carefully.
And the fourth is frankly there are a few cases and these were less than a handful of cases and a small percentage both in terms of number of cases and in terms of dollar amount but there were a few cases we lost we would rather have kept.
But at the end of the day we ended up with a record AUM of $146 billion on the full-service side.
Now part of that was due to market obviously but we still feel pretty good about that.
The other interesting point about the business in general is the change in business mix.
So we also had record AUM on the Institutional investment side with almost $94 billion.
So if you look at the mix the IIT business went from 32% of the total of AUM a year ago to about 39% of the total AUM at the end of the first quarter.
The IIT the growth came from investment only stable value business as well as our pension risk transfer both of which we think are growth businesses with good rates of return going forward or target rates of return.
So we're quite pleased about the business.
We're keeping the discipline on the full-service side and we think the mix the change in mix of business is not all bad.
Our next question comes from the line of Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
I'd like to ask about your life sales specifically   universal life what kind of target returns you're getting there? We're hearing some other carriers talk about pulling back because of the market is commoditized and too competitive? I don't think we gave target returns on any specific product.
But don't forget that twice in 2009 we raised prices significantly.
And as a result our sales and I'll get the percentage a little bit wrong but our in 2010 by about 30% or so.
As a result of that we haven't really changed our pricing.
And so competitors have come back to us if you will in terms of pricing which makes us relatively more competitive in terms of sales.
So we feel good about the returns we're getting.
But it's not because we've had any recent price decreases in order to boost sales.
And we have time for one final question and that will be from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I had 2 questions.
The first is on the run rate annualized results in the first quarter relative to guidance.
So if I take the $1.34 annualize that and then add in the annualized impact of the $0.17 impact of the ITSICOM [ph] I get to around $6.
And I realize there's some additional drag in the corporate line but that still seems below sort of the 2012 guidance range.
So am I missing anything else there that's my first question and I have a follow-up? Jay this is John.
Let me offer a couple of observations.
One is we made a decision back in 2009 to issue guidance once a year and then to neither affirm it or to update it.
And we're going to stay the course of that approach.
But having said that while not putting a specific number on it.
I would say that we think that the current quarter is not fully reflective of either our earnings power our business momentum.
And just picking 3 things off of that.
One is the group life experience that Charlie talked about.
The second is the asset management variable revenue component.
In the third is corporate and other and a couple of things that Rich mentioned.
And just looked 3 specifically.
I think it validates this concept of the current quarter is not reflective of earnings power of momentum.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second question has to do with variable annuity sales.
It appears that you're comfortable remaining in that quarterly sales range of $4.5 billion to $5 billion.
And my sense was that to come down over time because you didn't want it to be too large a percentage of the business.
So maybe you can just clarify that? Yes I think what we look for in this business as in other businesses is sustainable profitable growth.
And that the level of sales comes out of that.
And we don't target necessarily a level of sales.
If we think we need to raise prices and the sales comes downs a little bit we will do that.
But what we look for is an acceptable rate of profitability and the amount of sales comes out of that function.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
So is that run rate $4.5 billion $5 billion something we should keep in mind? I would say again that we'll look at the profitability of the product and the sales will come out of that.
So I don't want to predict any particular level of sales going forward one way or the other.
And ladies and gentlemen today's conference call will be available for replay after 1:30 p.m.
Eastern today until midnight May 10.
You may access the AT&amp;T TeleConference replay system by dialing (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 225936.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
That concludes your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
And I'd now like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Eric Durant.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Leah.
Good morning.
On behalf of my Prudential colleagues John Strangfeld CEO; Mark Grier Vice Chairman; Rich Carbone Chief Financial Officer; Charlie Lowrey Head of U.S.
Businesses; Ed Baird Head of International Businesses; and Peter Sayre Controller and Principal Accounting Officer we thank you for joining our call.
We'll start today with prepared comments from John Rich and Mark and then we'll have at your questions.
Before we begin in order to help you to understand Prudential Financial we will make some forward-looking statements in the following presentation.
It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today.
Additional information regarding factors that could cause such a difference appears in the section titled Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures of our earnings press release for the second quarter of 2012 which can be found on our website at www.investor.prudential.com.
In addition in managing our businesses we use a non-GAAP measurement we call adjusted operating income to measure the performance of our Financial Services businesses.
Adjusted operating income excludes net investment gains and losses as adjusted and related charges and adjustments as well as results from divested businesses.
Adjusted operating income also excludes recorded changes in asset values that are expected to ultimately accrue to contract holders and recorded changes in contract holder liabilities resulting from changes in related asset values.
Our earnings press release contains information about our definition of adjusted operating income.
The comparable GAAP presentation and the reconciliation between the 2 for the quarter are set out in our earnings press release on our website.
Additional historical information relating to the company's financial performance is also located on our website.
Now let's get started.
Here is John Strangfeld CEO.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
I'll begin by headlining what Rich and Mark will be describing to you more specifically regarding our second quarter.
Our drivers continued strong and in fact in some cases very strong and our underlying financial performance improved from the first quarter.
Rich will take you through the market driven and discrete items included in this quarter's earnings.
Stripping these items from each second quarter our earnings per share amount to $1.67 this year versus $1.64 in the second quarter of 2011.
This quarter's results includes the effect of significant improvement in the benefit ratios of our group life business confirming we believe that last quarter's elevated ratio was an aberration.
On the other hand this quarter's result also includes a drag of significantly worse-than-expected mortality in Individual Life stemming from several large claims on seasoned policies.
This unfavorable result the largest in relation to our expectations since the fourth quarter of 2003 is also in our judgment a random event.
ROE this quarter amounts to an annualized return over 11% again based on adjusted operating income excluding the small number of market driven and discrete items that Rich will describe in a moment.
Keep in mind that this 11% return -- 11-plus percent return reflects the earnings drag from significant capital capacity and that we intend to deploy approximately $3 billion of this capacity in the next 4 quarters.
A portion of that deployment is slated for the GM pension buyout transaction we expect to close by year end.
And in addition our board has authorized $1 billion in share repurchases in the 12 months ending June 30 2013.
Through business expansion synergy realization and capital deployment we expect our ROE to improve.
And we continue to believe our stated ROE objective for 2013 of 13% to 14% is achievable and achievable in a variety of economic and market environments.
We are focused on execution and realization of this ROE objective.
Additional expense synergies related to Star and Edison and the broader financial impact of the strong momentum in international will continue to be important drivers of performance.
The successful deployment of capital with an accretive impact on ROE is critical as is the improvement of our operating performance in our U.S.
businesses.
Fundamentals are exceptional in international and strong in most of our U.S.
businesses.
This is what gives us the confidence in our ability to distinguish ourselves with distinctive returns and high-quality businesses.
Our strong drivers demonstrate our commercial momentum and support our ability to improve our earnings and returns.
In annuities sales for the quarter amounted to just over $5 billion roughly in line with their levels since early last year.
Our new living benefit product will be launched later this month.
In Retirement flows in institutional investment products remain strong largely because of our growth in investment only wrap products.
In addition we believe the pension risk transfer business holds great promise.
We look forward to the fourth quarter closing of the GM transaction and we believe our agreement with GM may kindle interest among other planned sponsors.
In Full Service retirement we experienced our first quarterly net inflow from case activities since 2010 driven by a single large sale.
Nevertheless we're maintaining pricing discipline in a highly competitive environment.
Asset Management once again recorded excellent retail flows but Institutional flows were flat for the first time in a long time as equity outflows essentially offset positive flows into our fixed income businesses.
Individual Life also delivered a healthy increase in sales as competitors have raised prices bringing them closer to ours or have withdrawn products.
Finally International Insurance is benefiting from exceptional business growth even while we continue to integrate Star and Edison into Gibraltar.
As for the Star/Edison integration cost savings are on track and integration expenses are running below our original expectations.
More broadly in Japan sales are strong in all distribution channels captive agency banks and independent agencies.
To sum it up Prudential is doing well and we expect to do better.
With that I'd like to hand it over to Rich and Mark.
So Rich? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Last night we recorded common stock earnings per share of $1.34 for the second quarter and that's based on adjusted operating income for the Financial Services businesses.
This compares to $1.57 per share in the year ago quarter.
We have a short but not insignificant list of items related to markets and other discrete items events affecting the quarter's results.
In the Annuities business the equity market dropped in the quarter causing us to strengthen reserves to guaranteed minimum debt and income benefits and at an increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs resulting in charges totaling $0.17 per share.
In the Asset Management business we recorded a charge of $0.10 per share for an impairment related to our investments in our real estate funds.
In International Insurance Gibraltar absorbed integration costs of $0.05 per share relating to the Star/Edison acquisition.
And in Retirement we recorded a charge of about $0.01 a share on the transfer of bank deposits to third parties in connection with our decision to convert our savings and loan association to a trust-only organization.
In total the items I just mentioned had an unfavorable impact of about $0.33 per share on the quarter.
Our results in the year ago quarter included net charges of about $0.07 per share for a number of items including claims costs and expenses from the earthquake and tsunami disaster in Japan and again on the partial sale of a seed investment in the asset management business.
Taking these items out of both the current and year ago quarters the EPS comparison would be $1.67 for the current quarter versus $1.64 a year ago.
Now this comparison reflects an adverse fluctuation in Individual Life mortality for the current quarter and higher expenses in our U.S.
businesses which largely offset the benefit of continued organic growth on our International Insurance business as well as the realization of cost savings from the Star/Edison integration.
Mark will discuss the details in a few moments.
Moving to GAAP results of our Financial Services business.
We reported net income of $2.2 billion or $4.64 per share for the second quarter compared to $779 million or $1.58 a share a year ago.
GAAP net income for the current quarter includes amounts characterized as net pretax realized investment gains of $2 billion.
The main driver of the $2 billion in current quarter gains was a $1.9 billion of asset liability value changes driven by currency fluctuations.
These current quarter gains effectively reversed similar currency-driven losses that were incurred in our first quarter.
As I mentioned in discussing first quarter results we regard this as noneconomic accounting driven mainly by revaluation of dollar and other non-Yen liabilities on the books of the Japanese companies whose functional currency is Yen.
For example we have significant U.S.
dollar-denominated products in our Japanese businesses.
When the Yen weakens in relation to the U.S.
dollar as it did in the first quarter we record a loss in the income statement for the increase of the U.S.
dollar liabilities when measured in Yen on the Yen books because it will take more Yen to pay them off.
When the Yen strengthens as it did in the second quarter we record a gain in the income statement for the reduction of the liability because it will take less Yen to pay them off.
We consider this noneconomic because the liability is in U.S.
dollars and is matched with U.S.
dollar assets.
This income statement impact is offset by adjustments made in AOCI a component of equity but not through the income statement.
The end result is that our GAAP equity including AOCI is essentially neutral despite the volatility running through the income statement.
The remainder of the $2 billion of realized gains in the quarter of roughly $170 million came from net gains of $259 million and product-related hedging activities and modest gains from general portfolio activities partially offset by $117 million of impairments in credit losses.
Book value per share on a GAAP basis amounted to $78.07 at the end of the second quarter and this compares to $69.07 at year end.
At the end of the second quarter gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturities stood at $3.1 billion and we were in a net unrealized gain position of roughly $15 billion.
Excluding AOCI book value per share amounted to $60.77 as of the end of the second quarter up from $58.02 at year end.
This increase of $2.75 reflects the benefit of 500 million of shares purchased at an average cost below book value under the $1.5 billion authorization which ended in June of this year.
Over the past 12 months we've returned $2.2 billion to shareholders in the form of current stock dividends and share repurchases.
Turning to our capital position.
First I'll focus on our insurance companies.
We continue to manage these companies to levels consistent with what we believe are AA standards.
We managed Prudential Insurance to a 400 RBC.
We began the year with an RBC of 491.
During the second quarter Prudential Insurance paid a dividend of 600.
While this dividend had no impact on our overall capital position it did reduce the statutory capital for Prudential Insurance essentially moving the excess capital to the parent company which enhanced our capital flexibility.
While we do not perform a quarterly bottoms-up calculation of RBC we remain above our 400 threshold after giving the effect of the dividend and statutory results for the first quarter.
In Japan Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar Life reported solvency margins of 721 and 810 respectively as of March 31 their fiscal year end and under the new calculation method that became effective this year.
The reported solvency margins are strong in relation to our targets and supported the position of our Japanese companies as well capitalized and financially strong insurers.
Looking at the overall capital position for the Financial Services business we calculate on balance sheet capital capacity by comparing the statutory capital position of Prudential Insurance through our 400 RBC threshold and then add capital capacity at the parent and the other subsidiaries.
Now as you saw on Investor Day in May our estimate of balance sheet capital capacity is in the range of $4.0 billion to $4.5 billion as of December 31 2011 with about half of this capital capacity considered readily deployable meaning that it was held in cash or monetizable assets and available for share repurchases and strategic uses that would call for the external deployment or actual use of cash.
Factoring in the net impact of our year-to-date results the capital we've deployed in our businesses and the $500 million of share repurchases during the first half of the year our capital position has not changed materially since year end in total or in the mix -- that is the amount we consider redeployable.
I won't be more specific than that today because many of the influences to our statutory capital are based on annual calculations.
Also as Mark explained a couple of months ago on Investor Day we plan to deploy approximately $3 billion of capital over the next 4 quarters beginning on July 1 of this year.
As you know we announced a new $1 billion repurchase authorization in June which extends through June 30 of next year.
Investment in our businesses in the form of outsized organic growth based on market opportunities is also part of our capital deployment plans.
Pension risk transfer agreement with General Motors which is scheduled to close by year end is an example of such an opportunity and will allow us to deploy a significant amount of capital within Prudential Insurance for appropriate returns in a business we know well.
Turning to the cash position at the parent company.
Cash and short-term investments net of outstanding commercial paper and other short-term borrowings amounted to about $4 billion at the end of the second quarter.
The excess of our cash position over our currently targeted $1.2 billion liquidity cushion is available to repay maturing debt fund operating needs and to be redeployed over time.
Now Mark will provide a more detailed view of our business results.
Thank you John and Rich.
And good morning good afternoon good evening or good night depending on where you are.
Thanks for joining us.
I'll start with our U.S.
businesses.
Our annuity business reported adjusted operating income of $107 million for the second quarter compared to $207 million a year ago.
The reserve true-ups and DAC unlocking that Rich mentioned had a net unfavorable impact of $124 million on current quarter results.
This included a charge of $90 million to strengthen our reserves for guaranteed minimum debt and income benefits and a charge of $34 million from increased amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs; in both cases reflecting unfavorable market performance in the quarter in comparison to our assumptions.
Results for the year ago quarter included a net charge of $35 million from an unfavorable DAC unlocking and reserve true-ups also largely driven by market performance.
Stripping out the unlockings and true-ups annuity results were $231 million for the current quarter compared to $242 million a year ago or an $11 million decline.
This decrease reflects the impact of a higher level of base DAC amortization and higher expenses in the current quarter which together more than offset the benefit of growth in our fees.
Policy charges and fee income in the quarter increased $31 million from a year ago reflecting an increase of $7.5 billion in average variable annuity separate account values.
The increase was driven by $11.6 billion in net flows over the past 12 months.
While we have benefited from improvements in our amortization factors since our negative unlocking in the third quarter of last year we are still amortizing DAC at a more rapid pace than a year ago.
As a result our base level of DAC amortization increased more than proportionally with the increase in our fees.
In addition current quarter expenses were higher than a year ago partly as a result of business development costs.
Our gross variable annuity sales for the quarter were $5.3 billion up from $4.5 billion a year ago.
Current quarter sales benefited from actions taken by several key competitors that made our products relatively more attractive to clients and their advisors.
We are comfortable with our sales level which is roughly in line with our average of about $5 billion per quarter since we introduced our HDI product early last year.
As we mentioned at our Investor Day in May we expect to launch the next generation of our variable annuity product HDI 2.0 in the coming weeks.
The new product will increase our rider fee to 100 basis points on individual contracts and 110 basis points on spousal contracts and 95 basis points under our current HDI product.
In addition the new product will increase the minimum issue age by 5 years to age 50 and will reduce the payout rate from 5% to 4% for the age 59.5 to 65 band.
The new product continues our successful highest daily value proposition backed by auto-rebalancing tailored to the risk profile of each contract while adapting the product economics to our views of market conditions and drivers of profitability and returns.
In addition we discontinued sales of our x shares or bonus products in July based on our view that other share classes we offer will continue to provide broad market appeal across our distribution channels while offering more favorable return prospects in the current environment.
The Retirement segment reported adjusted operating income of $147 million for the current quarter compared to $171 million a year ago.
Current quarter results include a $9 million onetime charge resulting from our transfer of bank deposits to third parties as Rich mentioned.
Excluding this charge retirement results were down $15 million from a year ago.
The decrease came mainly from a lower contribution from net investment results.
The impact of lower reinvestment yields over the course of the past year was partly offset by crediting rate reductions we implemented on our Full Service stable value business in mid-2011 and in January of this year.
On July 1 of this year we implemented further crediting rate reductions averaging about 15 basis points on roughly $15 billion of semiannual reset business.
Lower net investment contribution also reflected the loss of about $7 million in spread income from bank deposits that we transferred during the second quarter to third parties in connection with our decision to restructure our savings and loan to a trust-only organization.
Total retirement gross deposits in sales were $12.8 billion for the quarter compared to $9.7 billion a year ago.
Full Service retirement gross deposits in sales were $4.4 billion for the quarter up from $4.1 billion a year ago.
While we continue to see limited activity in the mid- to large-case market which is our major focus current quarter sales included a major case win of about $850 million which contributed to positive Full Service net flows of about $700 million for the quarter.
Stand-alone institutional gross sales amounted to $8.5 billion in the current quarter compared to $5.6 billion a year ago.
We are continuing to experience exceptionally strong flows of stable value wrap products sold to plan sponsors and fund managers on a stand-alone basis which contributed $8 billion of gross sales in the current quarter versus $4.8 billion a year ago.
Current quarter sales included several large cases and benefited from the exit of a major provider of these products from the market.
Overall net additions for the retirement business were $6.3 billion for the quarter and account value stood at $245 billion at the end of the quarter up 11% from a year ago.
The asset management business reported adjusted operating income of $48 million for the current quarter compared to $227 million a year ago.
While the segment's basic earnings come from asset management fees the decline in results in relation to the year ago quarter was mainly driven by a decrease of $175 million in the contribution from what we now call Other Related Revenues.
This bucket encompasses results from incentives transactions strategic investing and commercial mortgage activities which are variable in nature and partly driven by changing valuations and the timing of transactions.
In total these activities produced a loss of $57 million in the current quarter and pretax income of $118 million in the year ago quarter.
As Rich mentioned current quarter results from these activities include a $75 million charge for an impairment related to our investment in a real estate fund.
The investment dates back several years to our formation of the fund which focuses on international properties and has experienced significant declines in value.
And the impairments stem from our completion of an analysis concerning our ability to recover our investment.
Results for the year ago quarter included a $61 million gain from the sale of part of our interest in a real estate seed investment.
In addition results from our real estate co-investments and interim loan portfolio were more favorable in the year ago quarter than in the current quarter.
Stripping out results from activities that come under the heading of Other Related Revenues the Asset Management business produced adjusted operating income of $105 million in the current quarter compared to $109 million a year ago.
The benefit of higher Asset Management fees driven by growth in assets under management was more than offset by higher expenses in the quarter including fund start-up costs that are charged to expenses when incurred.
The segment's assets under management stood at $650 billion as of the end of the quarter up $67 billion or 11% from a year earlier.
Adjusted operating income for our Individual Life Insurance business was $61 million for the current quarter compared to $135 million a year ago.
An adverse fluctuation in mortality experience driven mainly by several large claims from business written in the late 1990s and early 2000s drove nearly all of the earnings decline.
While mortality experience fluctuates from one quarter to another cumulative experience looking back over several years has been essentially in line with our expectations.
Mortality in the current quarter was about $50 million less favorable than our average expectations representing the most adverse variance from expected levels since late 2003.
Individual Life sales based on annualized new business premiums amounted to $91 million for the current quarter up from $68 million a year ago.
The increase was mainly driven by third-party sales and reflects our improved relative competitive position especially in the universal life market where some key competitors have recently raised rates bringing them more in line with our pricing or even withdrawn products from the market.
The Group Insurance business reported adjusted operating income of $46 million in the current quarter essentially unchanged from $49 million a year ago.
Current quarter results benefited from a more favorable group life claims experience than that of the year ago quarter.
I would also note that the current quarter group life benefits ratio of 88.6% is well in line with our historical range in contrast to the 95.4% ratio for the first quarter of this year which represented our most unfavorable experience in the last 5 years.
Going the other way expenses were higher in the current quarter than a year ago.
The higher level of expenses was mainly driven by updates of our premium tax estimates which produced a charge of about $10 million in the current quarter and a modest benefit a year ago.
Group Insurance sales for the quarter were $65 million compared to $52 million a year ago.
Most of our Group Insurance sales are reported in the first quarter based on the effective date of the business.
Turning now to our international businesses.
Gibraltar Life's adjusted operating income was $307 million in the current quarter compared to $185 million a year ago.
As Rich mentioned Gibraltar's current quarter results absorbed $38 million of integration costs for the Star and Edison acquisition.
As we noted in our Investor Day we now expect about $450 million of total integration costs down $50 million from our original estimate.
We have incurred about $270 million of these costs through the end of the second quarter and expect roughly $70 million more over the remainder of this year.
Results for the year ago quarter included charges of $56 million representing our estimate of claims and expenses from the earthquake and tsunami in Japan which was a second quarter event for Gibraltar due to its 1-month reporting lag.
Year ago quarter results also absorbed $29 million of integration costs.
Excluding the integration costs and the year ago impact of the earthquake and tsunami Gibraltar's adjusted operating income was up $75 million from a year ago.
This increase reflects business growth and cost savings from business integration synergies.
We are benefiting from business growth across all of our channels captive agents banks and independent agencies.
The benefit from business growth includes a contribution from margins on higher sales of cancer whole life products in the current quarter.
Since these products -- since these policies typically have annual premium payments the profit contribution mainly occurs in the quarter of sale and at anniversary rather than pro rata over the year.
Current quarter results reflect about $40 million of cost savings achieved thus far as a result of the business integration compared to about $5 million of early saves that benefited the year ago quarter.
Our cost saves are driven largely by consolidation of field offices integration of systems platforms and reduction of support staff.
We are well on track to achieve our targeted annual cost savings of about $250 million after the business integration is completed.
In addition foreign currency exchange rates including the impact of our hedging program contributed $12 million to the increase in earnings from a year ago.
Our life planner business reported adjusted operating income of $374 million for the current quarter compared to $315 million a year ago.
Current quarter results benefited from continued business growth.
On a constant dollar basis insurance revenues including premiums policy charges and fees were up 13% from a year ago.
In addition foreign currency exchange rates contributed $15 million to the increase in earnings from a year ago.
International Insurance sales on a constant dollar basis amounted to $1.1 billion for the second quarter an increase of $356 million from a year ago.
The current quarter reflects accelerated sales of several products due to market developments and the updating of our product portfolio as well as the continuing benefit from expanding distribution and the broad appeal of our protection and retirement solutions.
Current quarter sales of our cancer whole life product which is popular in the business market in Japan amounted to $212 million up $150 million from a year ago with the increase reflecting purchases in anticipation of a tax law change that became effective in late April of this year.
Current quarter sales of our U.S.
dollar retirement income in whole life products amounted to $351 million up $171 million from a year ago reflecting purchases in advance of crediting rate reductions that we implemented during the current quarter at both Gibraltar and Prudential of Japan.
Gibraltar Life sales were $735 million in the current quarter up $211 million from a year ago accounting for close to 2/3 of the overall increase in International Insurance sales.
Bank channel sales contributed $112 million of the increase driven primarily by our Yen-based single premium whole life products.
These products which have been popular in the bank channel gained momentum as competitors limited sales of Yen-based single premium whole life products through banks.
Sales from the life consultant channel increased $47 million from a year ago mainly driven by greater sales of our U.S.
dollar retirement income products.
The remainder of the increase or $52 million came from the independent agency channel mainly driven by strong current quarter sales of our cancer whole life product in the business market.
Life planner sales were $392 million in the current quarter up $145 million from a year ago.
Sales by life planners in Japan were up $136 million including increases of $82 million from U.S.
dollar retirement income and whole life products and $19 million from our cancer whole life products.
Life planner sales outside of Japan were up $9 million or 12% from a year ago.
Corporate and other operations reported a loss of $261 million for the current quarter compared to $237 million loss a year ago.
The greater loss in the current quarter was mainly a result of higher interest costs net of investment income mainly reflecting our deployment of capital debt in our businesses and less favorable results from non-coupon investments.
To sum up I would say that while our current quarter headline results were negatively affected by market driven and discrete items our underlying earnings power remains solid.
Our U.S.
Retirement Solutions and Asset Management businesses are continuing to build a strong base of fee-generating account values and assets under management benefiting from strong competitive positions in our selected markets including pension risk transfer where we see a major opportunity.
The benefits of growth were offset in current quarter results by higher expenses including business development costs.
While results from our U.S.
protection businesses were negatively affected in the quarterly comparison by an adverse fluctuation in individual life mortality group life underwriting experience for the quarter returned to well within our historical range following an adverse fluctuation in the first quarter.
And our International businesses had an exceptionally strong quarter benefiting from growth across multiple distribution channels and cost savings from business integration synergies on track with our targets.
Thank you for your interest in Prudential.
Now we look forward to hearing your questions.
[Operator Instructions] First we'll go to the line of Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question just on the VA pricing and product feature changes.
And I guess we should prepare for an acceleration of sales here in 3Q ahead of the changes.
But once the new product is in force what sort of a pace of VA sales you'd be comfortable with on a quarterly basis given the refinement in the product? Okay well I think Chris there are a couple of questions there.
First let me deal with flows.
I think this quarter what we'd say is flows were slightly higher than we wanted but not higher than we expected.
I think as Mark said we -- we're nothing if not consistent.
And if you look at last year we had flows of about $20 billion.
So we've averaged about $5 billion a quarter.
This quarter they were slightly higher I think because of the new product launch that's being made.
But we try to manage any acceleration in sales as carefully as we can.
Having said that I think we'd expect sales to trend down somewhat over time and that's what we hope for.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess trying to think a little bit about Mark's comments in Investor Day about expectations to deploy more than $3 billion of capital over the course of the next 4 quarters.
So -- and I guess with the GM transaction the $1 billion buyback authorization and your common stock dividend you get pretty close to $3 billion.
So you kind of have that earmarked already.
So I guess how much more is more? And then how do we think about the outsized growth opportunities like GM as potentially more of those could be layered on as we go forward? Chris it's Mark.
You can hear from the portrayal of the capital position that we still have capacity and we still have the theme of being opportunistic with respect to finding things that make sense for us strategically and financially.
And making sense financially right now by the way is very heavily influenced by the contribution that any capital deployment can make to the realization of our ROE objective.
In terms of pension risk transfer those deals will be lumpy.
They're hard to forecast.
The market has certainly taken notice of the transaction that we're doing with General Motors and there is interest.
And we believe that over time this can be a very attractive deployment of capital for us but it's hard to predict the timing.
So I guess the net headline is that we have capacity we'll be careful with respect to the way in which that capacity's used we do see both business opportunities with respect to things like pension transfer as well as other deployment opportunities and we're going to do everything that's pointed in the direction of the realization of the ROE target.
Research Division</strong> And just as a quick follow-up on that.
If there is another large transaction would that offset the buyback authorization so you wouldn't move ahead with the buyback? Or are you fully committed to deploying the $1 billion to share repurchases? I wouldn't make an unqualified statement about the commitment to share repurchases.
We'll be making the right economic decision.
Having said that pension risk transfer deals are very capital friendly.
And so even a fairly substantial pension risk transfer deal may not put a lot of pressure on the availability of capital for share repurchases.
We like the picture that's in front of us in terms of capital friendly deployment opportunities.
And keep in mind Chris that capital deployment means capital deployment of the non-monetizable capital that's in PICA.
And these pension risk transfer businesses are done within PICA.
That's a noncash requirement right? It's a noncash use of capital.
And next we go to the line of Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I actually want to go back to Chris's question for just one clarification.
I think we've all been kind of been operating under the assumption that the $3 billion between the dividend between the buyback and the GM transaction is -- kind of gets you at or near that $3 billion.
I just want to confirm that.
Is that the right assumption to be making or are there any other transactions that we should be thinking about that actually get us to that $3 billion or above if there's upside? We haven't parsed it with too sharp a pencil in terms of the pension risk transfer deal.
But having said that the answer to your question is yes that's the ballpark.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I wanted to talk a little bit about Gibraltar earnings.
And I understand that there was kind of an anomaly that hopefully recurs at this quarter annually relating to the cancer whole life sales.
And when you kind of put a margin on that I mean should we really be thinking of a normalized earning closer to that $310 million level? Or how should we think about that $340 million plus if you back off the Star/Edison integration costs? Sure let me talk a little -- this is Ed Baird speaking.
Let me talk a little bit about the product profitability and the sales and the factors that are driving them.
As you observed correctly the -- one of the drivers for the bump in earnings in Gibraltar was the increased sales in the cancer whole life product.
And as Mark explained there is a particular accounting treatment of that such that you recognize it in the quarter in which the annual premium is received.
That's not particularly unique that's part of the seasonality that influences certain sales.
So yes you will see that in this quarter.
You'll see it recur in the same quarter next year and the years thereafter.
What you can't be able to predict however is what these other sales are going to do to earnings.
Let me give you a few examples of this.
There are elements this quarter that are advancing as Mark accurately described them future sales.
So for instance the change in the tax treatment from the cancer the change in the crediting rates on the dollar-denominated products.
So those things are advancing some future sales.
The flip side of that however is that we're just starting to see the emergence of factors that will strengthen sales.
What I have in mind here for example within Gibraltar specifically is the growth in the number of banks.
We're up to about 60 banks that we're now active with.
As you know we've reported that we inherited almost 100 in total when we combined what we got from Star and Edison with what we had.
And we've just been slowly going through those relationships to see which ones we want to add and how much we want to commit to it.
So there's a positive trend there that is yet still emerging.
Another factor is that one of the things we have done in the independent agent channel which again gets reported through Gibraltar is we have just introduced in this past quarter what has long been our leading product in Japan.
And that is the very profitable dollar-denominated retirement income product.
That's just been introduced during the second quarter.
So there are some aspects of the sales in this quarter and thus in the profitability that are advancing future things but on the other -- and those should not be sort of linearly extrapolated into the future.
But on the other hand there are still some emerging very strong positive trends that will net against that.
So consequently it makes it very difficult to say exactly how you should normalize the quarter.
Next we go to the line of Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Firstly with interest rates.
10 years clearly meaningfully below where it was when you provided guidance.
So hoping to get some color as to how this may impact fundamentals if rates remain unchanged at the current level? On a related topic rates have also declined since you announced the GM transaction.
Does that change your return expectation for that transaction? Then lastly with international clearly very strong sales.
But given a significant portion was kind of buy or sell in nature ahead of the crediting rate reductions can you discuss the profitability of those sales? This is Mark I'll start with the interest rate question and then Charlie can discuss the GM question and Ed can discuss the international question.
But with respect to interest rates I think the low rate scenario that we had contemplated when we were responding to questions 2 years ago about low rate scenarios is coming through.
And the impact on us is unfolding pretty much as we had described at that time.
If you look at GAAP earnings we do see a negative impact from lower reinvestment rates either because absolute returns on some of our assets are lower or because there is spread compression with respect to some of the particular products that we sell.
But as we have reinforced our belief in the earnings power of the company and the achievability of our ROE target obviously now we're in the middle of the low-rate scenario.
And we still believe that that ROE objective is a fair representation of our earnings power in a range of outcomes that includes continued low rates.
Okay Nigel in terms of the GM transaction -- this is Charlie.
We can't say too much about it because obviously it hasn't closed yet it's supposed to close in the fourth quarter but I'll make a couple of comments here.
One we think GM did a very good job in terms of managing its pension fund.
So we started the process from a very good place.
In particular it's not surprisingly that the -- but not surprising the assets and the liabilities were relatively well matched so that helps.
More to your point there's a true-up mechanism at the end of the process that takes into account a variety of different market factors.
That's built in.
But I'd conclude by saying that we and GM tried to put together what I call a very durable agreement that contemplated a lot of market movements.
So I think we're feeling very good about our partner and we're feeling very good about the business itself.
Regarding our product profitability Nigel let me offer you a couple of comments.
First I would bring your attention to the fact that the biggest increase in product was actually in the cancer-related products.
And as you know both for us and for others those are among some of the highest margin products out there.
Secondly the single premium whole life probably that's at the lower end of our targeted range of profitability given the current interest rate environment.
But again that represented only about 13% of our sales.
Quite a bit higher is the increase taking place in our dollar-denominated retirement income.
So if you actually look at our product breakdown what you see is our #1 product is retirement income.
Again that's been our lead product for half a dozen years.
Number 2 for this quarter which is unusually high would be the cancer product.
Number 3 is our normal whole life.
And you only get to single premium with sort of the number 4 product in our portfolio for this particular quarter.
So when you look at the total mix we're actually very comfortable with the profitability of the portfolio that was sold during this quarter.
Next we move to the line of Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Nigel -- the Japanese question's the one that I want to go over.
But I do want to address kind of a throw-away line from Mark.
Mark you mentioned the start-up costs in asset management.
I believe you guys did quite a large closed-end fund during the quarter.
I was wondering if that's what you were referring to.
And maybe you could put a number on those costs? Yes.
Charlie can answer that.
Sure.
Well we did do a closed-end fund.
It was a very successful fund.
It was about $700 million for a high yield strategy.
And obviously with closed in funds you have an initial kind of IPO cost if you will and that was roughly $12 million.
So that was a big part of the expense gain for the quarter.
But we're really pleased with obviously the execution of this business and the start of a new sort of strategic direction for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay Charlie while I have you the mention of outflows in equities would you term that to be the program related? Maybe your clients changing what they want to do going from something to something else? Or would you equate that more to performance related? No I think it's very much the former.
It's not performance related.
We actually had good performance across all the asset classes this quarter.
I'll divide the flows into a couple of ways.
But if you look at the institutional flows as John said they were reasonably balanced between obviously the inflows and the outflows.
We've had very good inflows in the fixed income.
The outflows were from equity.
About half of it was from our quantitative side QMA and about half of it was from Jennison.
But within the QMA the interesting thing is there was one passive mandate for which we virtually got very very little fees.
And that was just a client moving out of that particular strategy.
The others were more rebalancing either from equities into fixed income or from domestic into global.
So it was not performance related; it was really rebalancing of client assets.
Next we go to the line of Ed Spehar with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First a follow-up on the single premium whole life product in Japan.
Ed should we interpret your comments to mean that perhaps there will be some price increases in that product line and some impact on sales? Because I think we're all thinking about the AFLAC commentary on -- and I don't know if it's the same product but I'm wondering if we should be expecting some changes there? And then Mark question on your comments about closeouts being capital light.
I think after the GM deal was announced there was at least one rating agency that came out with maybe less favorable commentary on the risk profile of that business -- or perhaps you could just sort of discuss how the agencies -- with your interaction with the agencies how they think about this stuff? I'll let Ed go first and then I'll talk about the capital issue.
Sure Ed.
Let me talk a little bit about some of the marketplace dynamics.
I wouldn't want to reference any one competitor but I will talk a little bit about the performance of some of the competitors both foreign and domestic and the influence it had on our sales and the relative profitability that you could expect.
You will have noted that some of the companies who were very strong in their sales over the past year in some of these heavily investment oriented products have indeed retrenched either by putting in place some kind of cap lowering crediting rates redesigning their product or in the case of some of them actually withdrawing the product.
You will note that we've not done those things because our view frankly is that if it is necessary to do that that means that one was overreaching probably to begin with.
So we have abstained from that kind of approach because we put less emphasis as you know on chasing market share that we do on chasing profitability.
Secondly the single premium product that we sell is Yen-based and that of course is a currency that has been living at the low end of returns for a very long time although in fairness even there the JGBs have dropped as well.
So even Yen-based products need to be evaluated as we continue to evaluate all products but not with the urgency that the dollar-based products have had to be because they've not experienced that same degree of precipitous drop.
So we're actually pretty comfortable with the range of these products and we will continue to monitor.
And if we think the returns don't hit ours then we will make adjustments.
But in general the reason you saw the sales go up here on this product had not to do with the actions we took but rather the actions that the competitors took in pulling back to a position more comparable to ours.
I would cite just one very simplistic example.
In some cases some of the competitors have pulled back the discount they were giving for advanced premium from 1% to say 50 basis points.
We were already at 50 basis points.
So you could go through a whole litany of product features and find that there's a comparable movement that has made our product more attractive not because of actions we have taken but because of the relative rebalancing that some of the competitors have.
Research Division</strong> So Ed would it be fair to say that prior to this quarter over the past 12 months -- let's say the prior 12 months that you had lost some share in that type of product relative to these other players and now you're regaining it back? Is that reasonable? I don't think -- I think it's very interesting; I don't know that we could say we lost it because we didn't have it to begin with.
Could we have had more had they not taken those actions? Possibly.
As you know we're still in the early growth mode with this channel.
So that even though sales are up 80% I believe yes in the bank channel for the quarter and that's over a comparative quarter that was up 60%.
So I can't complain that we're not getting growth.
It's really just a matter of what's available on the shelf.
And at the moment I think we're seeing that our position on the shelf is looking relatively more attractive because obviously I think both because of the pressure of the solvency margin rules the new rules that I think are forcing some competitors to maybe take a more cautious approach more conservative approach to their investment portfolio and therefore not be able to support maybe some of the higher yields they were providing on these kinds of products.
So I think the trends there are to our favor.
All right and then on the capital question.
The expression that I've used on this is "capital friendly" and not necessarily "capital light".
But this is a very efficient deal because of the way in which it goes on the statutory books.
This is a good home for this kind of a transaction because of the way in which we recognize the liabilities and because of the way in which we can manage the cash flows on the asset and liability sides of our balance sheet.
In terms of issues the concentration question is the one that's been raised and it has sort of 2 branches to it.
One branch is around the notion of a very large deal going on the books all at once.
And as you might imagine we have very carefully considered the impact on our balance sheet of this transaction very carefully understanding the assets that we'll be receiving as part of the payment of the premium as well as the investments that we'll have to make ourselves to properly manage against this liability.
We believe also in the context by the way of total Prudential that although this General Motors transaction is large it's not out of proportion.
When you look at the kind of risk that we want to take and the skill sets that we have in both sides of the balance sheet managing this liability as well as managing the asset.
The other branch of the concentration question relates to having all of the underlying lives covered by this annuity coming from 1 employer.
And I guess you'd have to argue that there may be some unusual correlation or some unusual longevity outcome related to that population.
We haven't seen it so I think net we are very comfortable with the capital efficiency with the skill sets that we have to manage this asset liability and with the fit of this deal in the context of the risk we want to take and the things that we're good at.
Next we go to the line of John Nadel from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> So I've got 2 questions.
One I wanted to ask a little bit about the regulatory environment.
In particular more recent commentary in Washington around SIFI around insurance companies versus banks as it relates to Prudential standards.
And then the second question that I had was a bit more well I guess it's -- I hate to ask a question that focuses on the corporate segment.
But the volatility in the results in that segment are so significant that I think it would be really helpful if you could give us some sense of how to think about your outlook for that segment for the remainder of the year and maybe as part of your 2013 ROE objective as well.
I mean I feel like we have all kinds of data and information to make some informed modeling assumptions for your other business segments.
But for this one I feel like in any given quarter it could come in $100 million above or below the previous quarter and I'm not sure exactly why.
Yes so we'll start with the regulatory environment Mark? Yes I think your references to recent both published as well as oral comments about Prudential standards and the capital and solvency regime view of companies that are thrift-holding companies but also predominantly engaged in insurance and other aspects so the consideration of capital and solvency standards for insurance companies has kind of been on the front burner.
I guess I'd start off by saying the same thing we've been saying for a long time around the SIFI issue which is it's a lot more important than we get it right than which label we wind up stuck with.
And I think that gets right at the point you're making which is are the capital and solvency standards that are being contemplated appropriately consistent with our business models in the way in which risk is realized by a company like Prudential.
And then from there you would go to the SIFI question and think about how to apply the right framework.
But with respect to SIFI designation it's very very much up in the air.
The process is underway.
I would say it's uncertain with respect to how or where we may come out of that.
With respect to the contemplation of capital and solvency standards for us we're actively engaged in discussions around our interpretation of what's been put out there.
We'll be considering either an individual or collective comment letter for the Fed on the solvency standards proposed for thrift holding companies.
And we'll be making many of the same points that we've made for a long time which is that the bank framework doesn't work very well.
And that it's appropriate to think very differently about volatility and the way in which risk is realized and the cash consequences of different environments for insurance companies versus banks.
And that's an ongoing process in which we're actively engaged.
Research Division</strong> And Mark just as a quick follow-up to that.
Have you guys internally attempted to conduct your own stress test using the bank C Card [ph] standards? We look at a lot of implications of different solvency regimes.
The Basel frameworks that have come out as well as other things that we do internally with our own capital management processes.
I'm not going to comment on the specific outcomes related to any particular stress tests except to tell you that we turn it over a lot of different ways and pay a lot of attention to what these things might mean for us.
And that it informs us as we comment on the way in which the framework is shaping up.
And John this is Rich.
We share your frustration on the corporate account.
But let me give you a little bit of background on what's in there.
There are legacy businesses in there that react to markets up and down.
There are employee benefit plans and there are many of them several of them that react to the markets going up and down.
And there's a whole bunch of corporate activities.
So to go through each one of the activities and try to model what they're going to do we're all going to be precisely wrong.
What I should -- the way I think you can think about this is we had about $40 million or $50 million worth of things that came out of those -- that stuff that were bad guys in the first quarter.
We had $40 million or $50 million that came out of that stuff that were good guys in the second quarter.
If you average them out or if you took them out you'd probably come up with 310.
310 is more likely the run rate typical run rate in 2012.
And if you use that to model 2013 you won't get too much indigestion.
And this is John I'd like to add a point.
But I wanted to add a point partly to something John you raised and something that Nigel raised a little bit earlier which is related to both the environment and our conviction around our achieving a 13% goal.
And just a couple of thoughts about that.
Obviously from our figures here you can see a run rate of a bit more than 11%.
And our -- so the real question is how do we get from the 11% plus to the 13%? And from our point of view what we're thinking about is the things that most principally are going to affect that that are going to drive us from where we are to obtaining it is the continuing momentum of the international businesses which you're hearing a lot about which you're seeing tangible evidence of; the realizations number 2 the realization of the Star/Edison synergies -- and you heard comments about being on track with that; the improvement we expect to see from our U.S.
businesses the run rate impact; the GM transaction and active capital management.
Those are really the 5 things that are the big drivers that take us from the mid-11% range to the 13%.
And frankly based on where we are and what it takes we like our prospects for achieving it.
Ladies and gentlemen we have run out of time for questions on today's call.
With that that does conclude today's teleconference.
If you wish to access the AT&amp;T replay service you may do so at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and enter the access code of 225937.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844 and use the same access code 225937.
Once again that replay will be available after 1:30 p.m.
Eastern time today through August 9 at midnight.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the third quarter 2012 earnings teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Eric Durant.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Cynthia.
Good morning.
Welcome to Prudential's expanded third quarter call covering the third quarter results and our financial outlook for 2013.
Slides supporting the financial outlook presentation are available at our Investor Relations website www.investor.prudential.com.
Representing Prudential today are the usual suspects John Strangfeld CEO; Mark Grier Vice Chairman; Rich Carbone Chief Financial Officer; Charlie Lowrey Head of Domestic Businesses; Ed Baird Head of International Businesses; and Peter Sayre Controller and Principal Accounting Officer.
In order to help you to understand Prudential Financial we will make some forward-looking statements in the following presentation.
It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today.
Additional information regarding factors that could cause such a difference appears in the section titled Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures of our earnings press release for the third quarter of 2012 which can be found on our website at www.investor.prudential.com.
In addition in managing our businesses we use a non-GAAP measurement we call adjusted operating income to measure the performance of our Financial Services businesses.
Adjusted operating income excludes net investment gains and losses as adjusted and related charges and adjustments as well as results from divested businesses.
Adjusted operating income also excludes recorded changes in asset values that are expected to ultimately accrue to contract holders and recorded changes in contract holder liabilities resulting from changes in related asset values.
Our earnings press release contains information about our definition of adjusted operating income.
The comparable GAAP presentation and the reconciliation between the 2 for the quarter are set out in our earnings press release on our website.
Additional historical information relating to the company's financial performance is also located on our website.
John? Thank you Eric and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
We appreciate your interest in Prudential.
I'll be reasonably brief to leave more time for Rich and Mark's expanded comments as well as for your questions.
So let me begin.
In the third quarter of last year EPS based on operating income increased for the third quarter of this year 82% reflecting -- compared to last year which is a reflection of weak equity market performance last year and favorable equity markets this year.
Excluding the effect of market-driven and discrete items such as DAC unlockings from the results of each period earnings per share increased by 17% from $1.49 in the third quarter of 2011 to $1.75 in the third quarter of 2012.
On the same basis our annualized return on equity for the third quarter reached 11.8%.
Core earnings for each of our businesses improved in the last year.
In short our underlying operating performance for this quarter was very solid.
We've expanded our call today to give you our outlook for 2013 earnings and ROE.
I don't want to front-run much of what Rich and Mark will be telling you but I will provide a few comments to provide context for their remarks.
Last week we completed our pension buyout transfer with General Motors.
Prudential has received approximately $25 billion in premium from General Motors for the purchase of a group annuity contract and we have assumed responsibility for approximately 110 000 salaried GM retirees.
We're certainly proud to have completed this unprecedented pension transfer agreement with GM.
And since we last met Prudential announced a second large pension transfer agreement this time with Verizon.
This transaction which is expected to close next month covers the transfer of approximately $7.5 billion of pension obligations to Prudential.
These transactions speak to our capabilities our culture of multi-disciplinary collaboration as well as our -- to our financial strength.
On Investor Day last May we spoke of opportunities for outsized organic growth that is growth over and above business growth in a normal course.
These pension risk transfers transactions exemplify what we had in mind.
They represent innovation and scale.
They also nicely complement our organic growth in M&amp;A.
Speaking of M&amp;A late in September we reached an agreement with the Hartford to acquire its Individual Life business through a reinsurance transaction.
We view this acquisition as similar to outsized organic growth because we are accelerating growth that would have taken years to achieve organically.
Our financial evaluation of this investment was driven by the value of the in-force block and expense synergies.
That said we believe the acquisition will lead to significant additional financial benefits in terms of new business.
First we're gaining distribution strength in the bank and wirehouse channels.
Second we're gaining increased scale.
Third we're adding talented people who make our company stronger most notably in product development and sales.
Now we all know that success is not in the announcement but in making it work and proving it out.
But as we've shown in the past most recently with Star/Edison we're pretty good at that.
As these large transactions demonstrate capital deployment remains an integral part of managing Prudential to achieve our financial goals and we recognize the importance of balancing investments in our business with cash dividends and share repurchases to ensure appropriate capital structure and attractive returns.
The Hartford transaction is scheduled to close early next year.
And as I mentioned GM pension transfer closed on November 1 and the Verizon pension transfer is expected to close next month.
Now we also declared a cash dividend yesterday of $1.60 per share a 10% increase from last year as well as our intention to pay quarterly dividend starting next year.
And finally we repurchased $150 million in common stock last quarter.
In combination these actions will deploy capital between July 2012 and June 2013 as well in excess of the $3 billion we have told you we expected to deploy in that period.
Our strong capital position liquidity and sound asset quality continue to serve us well.
We view them as supportive of our ability to achieve our return on equity objectives.
And as Rich will show you in a few minutes we continue to believe we have a strong prospect of achieving an ROE next year within the range of our stated ROE objective for 2013 which we first announced 3 years ago of 13% to 14%.
And frankly for us it's not just obsession with a mathematical number.
To us the achievement of this is a manifestation and validation of the uniqueness of our business mix the quality of the businesses that make up that mix and the talent of our people.
We take this goal very seriously and we are intensely focused on both making it happen and making it sustainable.
And yet I'll hasten to add that we'll get there in the right way or we won't get there at all.
With that I'll stop and turn it over to Rich.
Rich Carbone? Thanks John and good morning everyone.
So last night we reported common stock earnings per share of $1.53 for the third quarter.
That's based on adjusted operating income for the Financial Services business and this compares to $0.84 per share in the year-ago quarter.
Market-driven and discrete items including the impact of the annual update of actuarial assumptions which have significant impact this quarter as they did in our last quarter -- or the third quarter of last year I should say.
This year's annual review of actuarial assumptions included reductions in the long-term fixed income and equity returns.
While expected returns vary by duration in the U.S.
in the fixed income instruments we reduced our fixed income and returns for longer durations by about 100 basis points and on long-term equity returns by 125 basis points and that's across the board in all reserves.
In the Annuities business our annual review of experience and actuarial assumptions giving effect to lower assumed long-term returns and other refinements resulted in a charge related to guaranteed minimum debt and income benefits and DAC that was offset by the third quarter favorable equity market performance resulting in a $0.07 per share charge.
In Retirement a write-off of intangible assets related to a business we acquired in 2008 together with an unlocking based on the annual review of experience and assumptions resulted in a $0.05 per share charge.
In our Individual Life and Group Insurance business the annual -- review resulted in a $0.03 per share charge.
In International results for our Life Planner business benefited $0.03 per share from our annual review.
Also in International Insurance Gibraltar Life benefited $0.08 per share from a partial sale of our indirect investment in China Pacific Life.
This benefit was partially offset by integration cost of $0.05 per share relating to the Star and Edison acquisition.
And finally Corporate and Other results included an $0.11 per share charge to strengthen reserves related to certain of our pre-demutualization policyholder obligations driven by the annual actuarial assumption update as well as an additional $0.02 per share charge to write off some bond issuance costs on debt we redeemed prior to maturity.
In total the items I just mentioned had an unfavorable impact of about $0.22 per share on the third quarter results.
Our results in the year-ago quarter included net charges of about $0.65 per share from a number of items mainly driven by negative unlockings related to the 14% decline in the S&amp;P 500.
Taking these items out of both the current and year-ago quarters the EPS comparison would be $1.75 for the current quarter versus $1.49 a year ago a 17% increase driven by organic business results and the realization of cost savings from the Star/Edison acquisition.
And Mark will discuss our business results in more detail in a few moments.
Now moving onto the GAAP results of the Financial Services business.
We reported a net loss of $661 million or $1.41 per share for the third quarter.
This compares to net income of $1.6 billion or $3.18 per share a year ago.
The GAAP net loss for the quarter includes amounts characterized as net realized investment losses of $1.3 billion pretax.
This compares to $1.8 billion of pre-tax net realized investment gains in the year-ago quarter.
The $1.3 billion current quarter net realized loss can be broken down into 3 pieces: First we recorded $684 million of net losses from product-related embedded derivatives and hedging activities largely driven by changes in our assumptions for mortality behavior and -- for policyholder behavior and mortality that affected the annuity living benefit liability.
Second we recorded $521 million of losses from asset and liability value changes driven largely by currency fluctuations.
These currency-driven losses primarily represent changes in the value of non-yen liabilities related to products on the books of our Japanese companies whose functional currency is yen and that's what's important here.
As I've explained in the past when the yen weakens in relation to currencies underlying these products we'll record a loss in the income statement for the increase in these liabilities as measured in yen.
That part is okay because it will take more yen to pay them off.
However we consider this noneconomic because the liabilities are appropriately matched with investments in the currencies in which they will be settled whose value went up in yen terms as well and in equal amount to the decline or to -- excuse me to the increase in the liability.
The loss in the income statement is offset in AOCI where the revaluation of the asset sits not through the P&amp;L.
With the end result that GAAP equity is essentially unaffected despite the volatility in reported net income.
And third we recorded $107 million of impairments and credit losses.
The current quarter net loss also reflects a $685 million pretax loss from a divested business a business that we divested during the quarter driven almost entirely by our annual update of actuarial assumptions applicable to our long-term care business including loan -- including lower long term interest rates.
Book value per share on a GAAP basis amounted to $79.51 at the end of the quarter and this compares to $69.07 at year end.
At the end of the quarter gross unrealized losses of general account fixed income maturities stood at $2.4 billion and we're in a net realized gain position of roughly $18 billion.
Excluding AOCI book value per share amounted to $59.35 as of the end of the third quarter compared to $52 -- $58.02 at year end.
For Prudential Insurance giving effect of statutory results and $600 million of dividends paid during the quarter for the 9 months of the year we estimate the RBC remains above our 400% threshold as of the end of the third quarter.
I will discuss our capital position later on as part of our financial outlook.
And now I'll turn it over to Mark.
Thanks John and Rich and good morning good afternoon or good evening.
I'll start with our U.S.
businesses.
Our Annuity business reported adjusted operating income of $207 million for the third quarter compared to a loss of $192 million a year ago.
The reserve true-ups and DAC unlocking that Rich mentioned had a net unfavorable impact of $48 million on current quarter results.
This net impact included a charge of $106 million reflecting the annual update of our actuarial assumptions mainly driven by reductions in the assumed long-term rates of return we apply in projecting growth of consumer account values.
This charge was partly offset by a benefit of $58 million from favorable market performance in comparison to our assumptions largely driven by the 6% increase in the S&amp;P 500 for the current quarter.
Results for the year-ago quarter included a net charge of $421 million from an unfavorable DAC unlocking and reserve true-ups largely driven by unfavorable equity market performance.
Stripping out the unlockings and true-ups annuity results were $255 million for the current quarter compared to $229 million a year ago for a $26 million increase.
This increase in what I would think of as baseline results was driven by higher fees reflecting growth in variable annuity account values including the benefit of $13 billion of net flows over the past year.
Our gross variable annuity sales for the quarter were $5.9 billion up from $4.5 billion a year ago.
In August we launched our new variable annuity product HDI 2.0.
We're starting to sound like Microsoft.
This product increased our rider fee to 100 basis points on individual contracts and 110 basis points on spousal contracts from 95 basis points on our earlier HDI product.
The new product also increased the minimum issue age by 5 years to age 50 and reduced the payout rate from 5% to 4% for the age 59.5 to 65 band.
HDI 2.0 continues our successful highest daily value proposition backed by auto-rebalancing tailored to the risk profile of each individual contract.
We also took other actions over the summer to improve the risk profile and enhance return prospects on new business and enforce contracts.
These actions included the withdrawal in July of our X shares or bonus product and our suspension commencing in September of acceptance of subsequent premium payments on generations of highest daily products earlier than the HDA -- HDI product that we introduced early last year.
We estimated about $500 million of current quarter gross sales came from acceleration of subsequent premium payments on in-force contracts in advance of that suspension.
Adjusting for that and perhaps some uptick in sales in advance of our product change sales in the current quarter were roughly in line with our average of about $5 billion per quarter since we introduced the HDI product.
The Retirement segment reported adjusted operating income of $110 million for the current quarter compared to $111 million a year ago.
Current quarter results included $29 million charge to write off intangible assets relating to a business we acquired in 2008 and a charge of $13 million from updating of DAC and other amortization items based on our annual review.
Results for the year-ago quarter included a charge of $24 million reflecting a similar annual review.
Stripping these items out of the comparison results for the Retirement business are up $17 million from a year ago.
Current quarter results benefited from a greater contribution from net investment results.
Crediting rate reductions we've implemented on our Full Service Stable Value business in January and July of this year together with more favorable results from non-coupon asset classes more than offset the impact of lower reinvestment yields over the course of the past year and the loss of spread income on bank deposits we transferred to third parties in connection with our decision to restructure our savings and loan to a trust-only organization.
The benefits of current quarter results from higher fees driven by account value growth in the Institutional Investment Products was largely offset by a lower contribution of about $10 million from mortality-driven case experience on our traditional retirement products.
Total retirement gross deposits and sales were $6.4 billion for the quarter compared to $9.5 billion a year ago.
The decrease is mainly a result of lower current quarter standalone sales of stable value wrap products to plan sponsors and fund managers which contributed $2.5 billion in the current quarter and $5.1 billion in the year-ago quarter to sales of our Institutional Investment Products.
These sales are mainly driven by large case business and tend to be lumpy from one quarter to another.
Full Service Retirement gross deposits and sales were $3.5 billion in the current quarter compared to $4 billion a year ago.
We continue to see limited activity in the mid-to-large case market which is our major focus.
Overall net additions for the Retirement business were about $800 million for the quarter and the cap values passed the $250 billion milestone as of the end of the quarter up 17% from a year ago.
Last week we announced the closing of our pension risk transfer transaction with General Motors which will bring us approximately $25 billion of group annuity account values representing the transfer of benefit obligations for 110 000 salaried retirees from GM's pension plan to Prudential.
This transaction and the approximately $7.5 billion Verizon pension risk transfer transaction which is expected to close in December are building our leadership position in a market where we see great potential and an excellent fit for our skills in managing group annuity where we have a track record of more than 80 years.
The Asset Management business reported adjusted operating income of $187 million for the current quarter compared to $123 million a year ago.
While the segment's basic earnings come from asset management fees the increase in results in relation to the year-ago quarter was mainly driven by a $55 million greater contribution from what we call other related revenues.
This bucket encompasses results from incentive transaction strategic investing and commercial mortgage activities which are variable in nature and partly driven by changing valuations and the timing of the transactions.
In total these activities produced pre-tax income of $71 million in the current quarter compared to $16 million in the year-ago quarter.
The greater contribution from these activities came mainly from more favorable performance of fixed income and real estate funds.
Stripping out our results from activities that come under the heading of other related revenues the Asset Management business produced adjusted operating income of $116 million in the current quarter compared to $107 million a year ago.
The increase reflects higher asset management fees driven by growth in assets under management net of higher expenses in the current quarter.
The segment's assets under management stood at $670 billion as of the end of the quarter up $71 billion or 12% from a year earlier.
Adjusted operating income for our Individual Life Insurance business was $112 million for the current quarter compared to $111 million a year ago.
Current quarter results included charge of $27 million from an unlocking of DAC and other items resulting from our annual actuarial review driven mainly by our reductions in assumed long-term rates of return for fixed income investments and equities.
Results for the year-ago quarter benefited by $27 million from a favorable unlocking based on the annual review.
Stripping these items from the comparison results from Individual Life increased by $55 million from a year ago.
The increase reflected more favorable mortality experience in the current quarter as well as charges of about $15 million in the year-ago quarter to accelerate amortization of DAC due to unfavorable separate account performance linked to the decline in the S&amp;P 500.
Individual Life sales based on annualized new business premiums amounted to $98 million for the current quarter up from $70 million a year ago.
The increase was driven by strong current quarter universal life sales through third-party distribution and reflects our improved competitive position as some key competitors have recently raised rates bringing their pricing more in line with our premium rates which we increased several years ago.
We expect our universal life products to remain competitive following further price increases we implemented last month.
Our acquisition of Hartford's Individual Life Insurance business expected to close early next year represents a rare market opportunity to bring high-quality business onto the books with appropriate returns accelerating growth that might have been achieved organically over a period of years along with offering potential expense synergies that we believe are clearly achievable.
We are also gaining distribution strength in the bank and wirehouse channels that will contribute to organic growth going forward.
The Group Insurance business reported adjusted operating income of $35 million in the current quarter compared to $45 million a year ago.
Current quarter results benefited by $7 million from refinements in Group life and Disability reserves reflecting our annual review while results for the year-ago quarter benefited by $22 million from a similar review.
Stripping the reserve refinements out of the comparison Group Insurance results are up $5 million from a year ago.
[Audio Gap] Less favorable group life underwriting results.
Group Insurance sales for the quarter were $46 million compared to $40 million a year ago.
Most of our Group Insurance sales are recorded in the first quarter based on the effective date of the business.
We are taking significant actions to enhance our return prospects in Group Insurance.
We announced our exit from the long-term care insurance market in July and are focusing on our core group life and disability coverages where we are exercising pricing discipline on new business and as cases come up for renewal.
Turning to our International businesses.
Gibraltar Life's adjusted operating income was $390 million in the current quarter compared to $329 million a year ago.
As Rich mentioned Gibraltar's current quarter results include income of $60 million from the partial sale of our investment in China Pacific Group by the Carlyle consortium.
As of the end of the quarter our remaining investment in China Pacific had market appreciation of about $50 million which is included in the net unrealized gains on our balance sheet.
Going the other way Gibraltar's results for the current quarter absorbed $34 million of integration costs for the Star and Edison acquisitions.
With all major aspects of the business integration completed or nearing completion we currently estimate that total integration cost will be below $450 million with about $300 million incurred through the end of the third quarter and $10 million to $15 million expected for the remainder of the year.
Results for the year-ago quarter included income of $84 million from a partial sale of our investment in China Pacific and absorption of $43 million of integration costs.
Excluding the China Pacific gains and integration costs Gibraltar's adjusted operating income was $364 million for the current quarter up $76 million from a year ago.
The increase reflects business growth and cost savings from Star and Edison integration synergies.
Current quarter results reflect about $40 million of cost savings achieved thus far as a result of the business integration compared to about $500 million of early saves that benefited the year-ago quarter.
We remain well on track to achieve our targeted annual cost savings of about $250 million after the business integration is completed.
In addition foreign currency exchange rates including the impact of our hedging program contributed $13 million to the increase in earnings from a year ago.
Our Life Planner business reported adjusted operating income of $393 million for the current quarter compared to $331 million a year ago.
Current quarter results benefited by $20 million from refinements of reserves and other items reflecting our annual review.
Excluding the impact of these refinements Life Planner results are up $42 million from a year ago.
The increase came mainly from continued business growth.
On a constant dollar basis insurance revenues including premiums policy charges and fees were up 8% from a year ago.
In addition foreign currency exchange rates contributed $14 million to the increase in earnings in the Life Planner business from a year ago.
International Insurance sales on a constant dollar basis amounted to $900 million for the third quarter compared to $810 million a year ago.
Sales from Gibraltar Life were $636 million in the current quarter compared to $537 million a year ago.
Current quarter sales reflect accelerated purchases of our Single Premium yen-based whole life bank channel product which amounted to $311 million in the current quarter compared to $29 million a year ago.
This sales surge reflected recent actions by competitors which limited the alternatives available to bank customers with significant funds available for investment in life insurance products.
In order to limit our concentration in this product and maintain appropriate returns we have taken actions to limit monthly sales of the bank Single Premium yen product through December of this year to roughly the pace of the third quarter and we will be implementing a crediting rate reduction thereafter.
Although our sales numbers count the Single Premiums we received at 10% based on industry practice for recording annualized new business they are reflected at 100% in our income statement with an offset in reserves that we include in insurance and annuity benefits.
These sales added about $3 billion to both premiums and the benefits line in the current quarter distorting ratios that some of you may calculate.
Excluding the bank channel Single Premium product Gibraltar's current quarter sales were $325 million compared to $508 million a year ago.
The decrease reflected acceleration of sales in the first half of the year as we anticipated due to a tax law change in April that affected our cancer whole life product and due to crediting rate reductions we implemented in the second quarter for our U.S.
dollar retirement and whole life products.
Life planner sales were $264 million in the current quarter compared to $273 million a year ago.
Sales by Life Planners in Japan amounted to $171 million down $27 million from a year ago.
This reflected decreases of $23 million from U.S.
dollar retirement income and whole life products and $16 million from our cancer whole life product reflecting the acceleration of sales into the earlier part of this year due to the tax law change and our crediting rate reductions.
Life Planner sales outside of Japan were up by $18 million or 24% from a year ago reflecting higher sales in Korea and several other markets.
Corporate and Other operations reported a loss of $452 million for the current quarter compared to a $349 million loss a year ago.
As Rich mentioned the current quarter loss includes a $78 million charge to strengthen reserves based on our annual actuarial review for obligations we retained to pre-demutualization policyholders and a $16 million charge to write off bond issue cost for debt that we redeemed prior to maturity.
In the year-ago quarter we absorbed charges of $99 million to increase reserves for estimated death claims based on applying new matching criteria to the Social Security Death File and charges of $20 million for a contribution to be made to an insurance industry insolvency fund.
Excluding these items the Corporate and Other loss was $358 million in the current quarter compared to $230 million a year ago.
The greater loss in the current quarter was mainly a result of higher expenses including some non-linear items such as employee benefit costs and advertising and higher interest costs mainly reflecting our deployment of capital debt in our businesses.
To sum up I would say that our current quarter results reflect strong business performance virtually across the board and that we are in a solid position to achieve the goals that Rich will talk about shortly.
Our U.S.
Retirement Solutions and Asset Management businesses are continuing to benefit from growth of our base of fee generating businesses.
Current quarter results also benefited from more favorable investment results in the Retirement business and a greater contribution from activities that complement our main focus on recurring fees and asset management.
Our prospects in Retirement are enhanced by our leading position in the pension risk transfer market where we recently announced 2 major groundbreaking transactions that will contribute to our future results.
Underlying results for our U.S.
Protection businesses benefited from more favorable mortality in Individual Life and a greater contribution from investment results in Group Insurance.
We will strengthen our Individual Life business with our acquisition of Hartford's business expected to close early next year.
This acquisition will bring us a high-quality bloc of business market-leading distribution in key channels and a strong pool of talent.
In Group Insurance we're taking actions to enhance return prospects through a focus on our core Group Life and Disability businesses and pricing discipline.
Our International businesses continue to perform well benefiting from sustained growth driven by multiple distribution channels and cost savings from business integration synergies on track with our targets.
Now I'll turn it back over to Rich.
Rich? Okay.
Let me give everybody a minute to get out their decks.
So get on that line.
Get their iPads warmed up.
And we'll take you through the 2013 guidance.
All right.
On Slide 4 you'll see the items that should help you understand how 2013 may unfold.
First we need to develop a starting point a baseline 2012 which includes an accounting change in the fourth quarter of this year for pensions.
And I'll discuss that in detail in a moment.
We are assuming the S&amp;P ends 2012 with 1 425 and appreciates at 6% in '13 and that's a change from our traditional 8% assumption resulting in an average S&amp;P of 1 470 for 2013 that will drive our fee income.
In 2013 the yen is hedged at 80 versus 85 in 2012 and the won is hedged at 1 160 versus 1 180 in 2012.
So they're going in opposite directions.
We have assumed that interest rates will follow the forward curve with a 10-year treasury beginning 2013 at 1.73% and rising to 1.94% by 12/31/13.
Obviously we invest in spreads above that mainly in the A and AAA space or around the board there.
We're doing a little better in our private placements.
We expect a higher tax rate as the result of higher earnings as the relative portion -- proportion of tax preference items to taxable income declines.
Leverage will remain at around 25% debt-to-capital.
And lastly the major transactions in pension risk transfer Hartford and Star/Edison contribute substantially to 2013 earnings.
Slide 5.
That summarizes the impact of the items I just mentioned in somewhat of a graphic form so let's walk through it.
We'll start with our reported AOI EPS for the first 9 months and that should total $4.41.
Adding back to our reported AOI the onetimers or unusual items that Eric and I and Mark have called out throughout the year gets us to a normalized 9-months EPS of $4.74.
We then add the impact of a pension accounting change.
Now here goes with the explanation of that.
Every year we update our pension assumptions such as the discount rate and the expected return on the plan assets and that's the discount rate on the liability.
This year we also plan on making a change to our pension accounting to remove the smoothing of the return on fixed income assets.
This change is to a preferable method of accounting under GAAP that better aligns the interest rate sensitivities of the fixed income assets with the pension liability thereby mitigating a revenue and expense disconnect.
That has about a $0.22 per share impact on 2012 results.
Though that will be spread amongst the whole year we will restate the first 3 quarters for that and the fourth quarter will contain 1 quarter of that impact.
Adding an estimate for the fourth quarter results including that 1 quarter's impact of pension gets us to EPS for 2012.
This baseline estimate on a normalized basis and including the pension accounting change is the starting point to build to to get to 2013.
As you can see without providing numbers for the fourth quarter estimate or the baseline 2012 we simply are not comfortable in providing a single quarter's estimate.
Okay.
Starting from there we'd add the U.S.
and international growth income from the risk transfer -- the pension risk transfer transactions in the Hartford acquisition then adjust the denominator for capital activities that I will discuss later on we expect 2013 normalized AOI EPS to range from $7.70 to $8.10.
Reported EPS on an AOI basis puts in Hartford or takes out Hartford integration costs and Star/Edison integration costs and is estimated at $7.50 to $7.90.
Slide 6.
Slide 6 shows our capital view at year end.
While not on the slide capital capacity at 9/30/12 was $4 billion to $4.5 billion about the same as 6/30/12.
Approximately $2 billion of which was readily deployable.
The 2 pension risk transfer transactions the statutory impact of the LPC [ph] third quarter reserve which will be reflected in our year-end asset adequacy testing reserves and our annual shareholder dividend take capacity down to around $2 billion to 2.5 billion at 12/31.
Over 1/2 of which however is readily deployable.
So readily deployable was not depleted as much as the total capital on a proportional basis.
You'll also see these impacts in our year-end PICA RBC which is estimated to be above 400%.
Now moving onto ROE.
Slide 7 notes the items impacting both the numerator and the denominator and that little fuzzy line in between is trying to delineate which is which but we all know that these things leak into both the numerator and the denominator.
Income is obviously dependent on meeting the organic growth plans.
Interest rates rising modestly to the forward rates I just mentioned.
The 6% appreciation in the S&amp;P and the integration of Hartford Life.
The denominator we used in our estimate which can cause some mischief as we all know -- but the denominator we used in the estimates for average equity simply took our 9/30/12 FSB equity of $27.7 billion and rolls forward earnings and plan capital actions from 9/30/12 to 12/31/13.
As a result of the Hartford acquisition and the pension transactions and our desire to reduce overall leverage below 25% of the $1 billion of share repurchases authorized under the current plan we assume repurchases of $400 million.
This would be $250 million more than the $150 million we purchased in the third quarter.
Slide 8.
Slide 8 rolls 2012's ROE into '13.
AOI increases for both organic growth and capital deployment the acquisition of Hartford and the execution of the 2 historic pension risk transfer transactions.
Additional capital management activities will adjust the denominator.
And ignoring the accounting noise from FX and whatever else goes on in accounting ROE for 2013 will range from 12.5% to 13.1% from normalized results.
Put in the effects positive and the negative of the known onetime items -- and I guess these are both negatives like the -- unlike the known unknowns from Rumsfeld's day like Hartford and Star/Edison integration costs resulted in a reported ROE of 12.2% to 12.8%.
And finally and unfortunately we can't predict the outcome on the regulatory front particularly around the non-bank SIFI impact.
We've disclosed that we are in a stage 3 evaluation and continues to have really constructed dialogue with our regulators around the significant differences between insurance and banks.
And I want to make one other point.
It is a judicious process.
Everybody is listening on both sides.
And now I'll turn the question over to Mark -- to everybody I'd like to turn it.
So we'll open to questions.
This is Mark.
Just one quick correction.
I'm advised by my colleagues that I misspoke with respect to year-ago Star/Edison synergies.
It wasn't $500 million it was 5.
Maybe a little wishful thinking in there.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> First I just wanted to make a couple of clarifications.
Can you just repeat the share repurchase assumption? I think I didn't fully understand the assumption that you guys were using.
Okay.
We had a $1 billion authorization.
We purchased the $150 million in the third quarter and we are going to purchase another $250 million over the next several months through June 30 2013 for a total of $400 million.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then does the plan -- and then presumably there could be something in additional post mid-year in 2013? That will have to go to the Board at that time and it depends on their approval.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then turning to the Hartford Life deal we know that you're paying a $600 million seeding commission.
Can you talk about how much additional capital will be required to support that business? And how do you expect your expense synergies to merge over the next couple of years? John you want to take the expense? And I'll take...
I'll take the capital base.
Let me do that first.
Let me do the capital piece first.
That capital is going to -- the capital that we're going to get to pay for Hartford is coming from the reduction in the buybacks.
So the capital capacity we're paying is relatively unchanged as a result.
But I think Ryan was asking a different question.
He was asking how much over and above the 615 [ph] we intended to put in in support of the acquisition.
That's the number that we're not prepared to give you today nor are we prepared to give you the expense synergies today.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And -- all right.
Maybe just one more quick one.
That pension accounting change -- so I should think about the accounting change as adding $0.22 to your operating EPS definition for 2012 versus what was previously recorded? That is correct.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just -- okay.
I totally got it in a different way.
The pension accounting change adds to earnings adds to the baseline for 2012? That's correct.
Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And is it expected to have a similar effect for 2013? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- I wanted to move away from this.
I just want to talk about Gibraltar.
Numbers have kind of been all over the place because of various different items having gone through the quarter.
Do you guys -- when you back out everything are you guys thinking now that this is probably a decent run rate on Gibraltar? Or is there some over earning may be going on or under earning that wasn't really pointed out? Are you speaking about earnings or sales? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Earnings Ed.
On the earnings side I think what you're starting to see here is what we had forecasted which is you're starting to see the improvements taking place in terms of the expense savings coming into play here.
You're also getting improvement coming from the growth of the business.
So aside from onetimers of which the third quarter does have some because of annual adjustments you do have a steady improvement taking place as this business grows and gets the expense savings.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one more if I may.
I know you're not really ready to talk about SIFI stuff.
But John I think you made the assumption in the -- at the Investor Day that you didn't expect anything SIFI-wise really to come down and affect you until 2014.
I'm wondering if -- what your thoughts are on that right now? Well as you know we're in the midst of the process right now reviewing the designation question.
We're in stage 3 of that process which is interactive involving the company and a variety of regulators and FSOC staff.
I guess relative to what we thought at the beginning of the summer the process is moving more quickly.
They have set more ambitious deadlines and targets and objectives for addressing the designation process.
However the loose end there relates to the question of capital standards and solvency and risk regime if we are designated as a SIFI.
And that process is more uncertain.
It's possible that we could go through the designation process without having a resolution of the capital and solvency regime question.
And so I would still I guess convey some uncertainty around the timing of knowing understanding and implementing whatever capital insolvency rules might arise if we are designated a SIFI.
So while designation is -- may be moving more quickly although that's a process that as Rich said is an earnest and hard-working process with good quality give-and-take the issue of standards is still highly uncertain.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Berg with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just one question.
So in your discussion of the DAC unlockings you indicated that -- I think you said that you have lowered your expectation for long-term equity returns.
Two-part question what do we mean by the long term over each of the next 10 years 20 years 30 years? And why do you think that the common stocks will permanently produce -- and that's a pretty heavy thing to say that common stocks will permanently produce a lower rate of return than you had anticipated why do you think that's the case? Eric it's Mark.
With respect to the time horizon for the assumptions it reflects the duration of the products.
So where we need a 30-year assumption we have a 30-year assumption that reflects the decrease in expected returns that we just talked about.
So that long-term assumption is over the life of the underlying products.
And by the way it is stable over the lifetime.
We extrapolate the returns from 4 years to 10 years to 26 years or whatever we need.
With respect to the question about why lower returns I think at 40 000 feet maintaining a reasonable relationship between fixed income returns and equity returns is appropriate.
The risk premium in the market tends to be over a long period of time fairly durable and we're reflecting in our assumptions now interest rates lower by 100 basis points.
And so coincident with the broader return picture and relative return relationships it seems appropriate to reconsider the equity return as well otherwise we'd be widening the gap and probably distorting some of our reserve entries where we're more heavily dependent on equity assumptions.
It may be viewed as conservative but we would certainly view it as appropriate.
LLC Research Division</strong> No I got it.
That's very clear.
Actually one quick related follow-up.
When you talk about your expected return to fixed income do you mean the coupon income or do you mean the total return to the investor from investing in a bond? It's generally total return to investor because ultimately what matters here is the accumulation of assets either in our general account where we support a product or in a separate account where the client owns the asset.
Our next question comes from the line of Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A question about Slide 6 the 12/31/2012 projected numbers.
Given HIG Hartford Life is closing in the first quarter I'm assuming it's not in these numbers is that correct? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in terms of the capital that you plan to use to back that -- I know you're not going to give us the amount but which bucket should we take it out of? I mean is it coming out of the readily deployable capital or the on balance sheet capital? Well what's going to happen is it's going to go in the required equity required capital up at the top.
And then it's going to -- what's going to happen is we're going to have attributed equity go up through -- due to earnings and then we're going to go serve on the buybacks so the buybacks will not deplete the attributed equity.
And at the end of it all I think it'll even out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then similar question in terms of the RBC ratio.
You're saying above 400% for year-end 2012 but if we put Hartford Life in here I mean is that number going to be still be above 400% as your -- is that your expectation? Yes because the capital that was going to be used to buyback stocks will remain in a FICA or be sent down to FICA.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess my second question is on the non-bank SIFI.
Maybe just asking it in a slightly different way I get everything you're saying in terms of the uncertainty and things are constantly moving.
But with that as a given meaning things are uncertain how did you get comfortable adding what looks to be $39 billion of general account assets? If I take the GM pension the Verizon and then the Hartford Life it seems like that's a pretty big amount of assets coming on where there might be some uncertainty around the capital required to back that.
So how did you get comfortable with that? We got comfortable I guess -- or maybe the way you're asking it in 2 -- sort of in 2 worlds.
One is with respect to where we are today we apply a pretty sharp-penciled analysis to the economics of these transactions and we're very careful about understanding the risk dynamics and concept of economic capital that we believe is consistent with what you guys as investors would expect and demand on these products.
From there in terms of the current picture we also look very closely at the statutory impact then we look very closely at the GAAP impact.
So there are 3 prongs 3 different levels to the static question about the way that fits our books and where we have to be comfortable and the answer is we have to be comfortable with all 3.
Then looking at the question of SIFI-ness and the possibility of operating in a different capital regime and what this may mean we have had a view that we're well run and well capitalized and doing the right things with respect to both risk and balance sheet and that we'll address SIFI standards and issues around whatever insolvency and capital regime we face at the time that that's actually settled.
And as we pointed out we generate a lot of capital.
If we have to do something different in order to satisfy a new requirement we believe that we have the capacity and flexibility to address those issues.
And this is John.
Suneet I'd like to add on to that.
Actually not the question you asked but I think providing a better context around how we think about pension risk transfer as an important thing to do because I don't think we've really done that in a setting like this other than focusing on individual transactions.
So let me just take a moment.
And then if there's a second part of your question we'll come back to it.
But let me just take a moment to talk about this a little because innovation of a scale of this magnitude is rare.
And from our point of view this is a wonderful complement to organic growth in M&amp;A and some context around it is I think is useful.
This did not arise because of some sort of opportunistic flash in the pan that came in over the transom and nor is this is a kind of business that's simply driven by the sleight of hand and structuring or pricing.
In our case what we did is we established a dedicated PRT pension risk transfer team as an R&amp;D project in 2007.
We saw some interesting macro forces.
We thought we were well positioned for a whole variety of reasons.
And frankly we continue to invest in [ph] it and right through the financial crisis.
And the reason for that is we thought that there are a lot of good reasons why we would have the opportunity to be well positioned to take advantage of this.
And in a sense this type of opportunity is just the opposite of a commodity.
It's complex it's big it's multidimensional and high-value added.
And while it may be less obvious to the outsider -- to the client it's just best done by those who have businesses and cultures that do a really good job of interweaving different disciplines.
And what I'm talking about there are things like actuarial investment business legal administration and asset management skills.
It's not easy for people to do this or to replicate it.
And furthermore it's not only about the pricing.
It's about the confidence a client has in a high-quality close and execution and doing it on a timely basis as GM has been quite focused upon and Verizon will be as well.
I think you'll find -- for those who are thinking about this area and trying to put in some context I think you'd find that we have very good marks for this in the industry.
And I actually doubt that anyone else -- any other insurer at least has started in early -- as early or invested as heavily as we have in this era.
So I think this is what explains both our interest in this area and I think what explains our early successes and market-leading position.
Now when you back back to the financials of this just to complete the picture what this produces is a stable earnings stream with moderate market sensitivity.
It's consistent with our 13%-plus ROE goal.
It involves risks that we know and manage well and it doesn't have onetime costs or synergy phase-ins that are normally associated with a large outsized activity.
And when we look at this from a multi-year context when you think about what we've done post crisis whether it's a strong organic growth whether it's the well-executed M&amp;A like Star/Edison and prospectively Hartford and then the addition of the outsized organic growth on PRT we really think this is probably the best business portfolio we've ever had in terms of an attractive balance of growth stability and sustainability.
So that's how we're thinking in the broadest terms about PRT the role it plays and our thinking perspectively.
And I understand that wasn't exactly to your question but it felt like there's an opportunity here for me to speak to that.
Research Division</strong> No that's helpful.
I would just like to add one other point because I know there's a lot of folklore running around in the street.
The capital that we hold against this product is significantly in excess of capital that we hold against similar products such as Stable Value GICs and Group Annuities.
So the -- we went back and we lost just a proportion of capital we have traditionally held against these products these 2 transactions hold per capital at a higher level.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry did you say the capital is higher or lower? Higher.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as you think about the returns on this business I know you've said it's accretive to your ROE objectives.
I'm not sure what that means if the capital is currently earning very little.
So can you put some parameters around what sort of return you'd expect? Yes.
When I was talking about the first answer I gave the idea of a pretty sharp pencil and a careful look at risk adjustment returns and the performance of these products is very much true.
We work hard to make sure that we understand the right capital and the right risk return picture here.
And while we've talked about this in the context of our stated objectives and made the observation that these transactions are accretive to our objective relative to where we are without them and consistent with the goals that we've set they are also consistent with what we believe to be the real economics of the transactions.
These are sophisticated counterparties.
Everybody is doing their homework and looking carefully from both sides at how these happens.
And we recognize the discipline of the market to make sure that our economics are fully justified and we believe they are but I think what that also means is that if this were a stand-alone company starting up doing these deals you would invest in it.
Our next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So first I just had a question on your ROE.
As I think about the 13% to 14% target you're getting there if you use the top end of the range but there are items in there in your guidance that we wouldn't have like really expected previously.
There is the pension accounting change the book value hasn't grown as much as you would have thought given the charges and I don't think all of the charges would -- were expected at the beginning of the year.
So if I adjust for these the is ROE still getting better but not as much as you would have assumed previously.
So my question was just on what do you believe are the key drivers of that? Is the performance in some of the businesses falling short? Or is it the macro environment or is it something else? And then secondly on your -- in the Gibraltar business you had pretty strong sales of single-premium whole life policies.
And that -- obviously your capping production levels in the fourth quarter lowering crediting rates next year I mean just how comfortable are you with the margins and returns on the business that you've sold over the past few months? Jimmy it's Mark.
Let me start off on your first one.
We set this goal several years ago.
And almost everything is different.
And we knew when we set it that we were putting a stake in the ground around the earnings power of the company but we were not putting a stake in the ground around every line item that was going to get us there.
And over a period of several years we know that almost everything is going to turn out to be different.
In fact we faced substantial headwinds with respect to the level of interest rates and the cumulative impact of that by the way is larger than the impact of either of the items that you mentioned.
And so our view is not to parse line items and try to reconstruct the -- either each assumption and the way in which that has come through or individual line items on our income statement and balance sheet and the way in which they have evolved in the context of what's come true relative to assumptions.
I think the idea at a time was a reflection of our earnings power in a variety of circumstances.
And we believe that as you correctly point out we made substantial progress we are differentiated from the pack with respect to our level of returns and we're certainly within an eyelash of being totally consistent at least in the aggregate with the objectives that we've set.
So I think you can look at the headwinds and look at the negatives and look at the positives but our view is that we're doing what we said we were going to do under pretty difficult conditions.
And you mentioned the macro environment that would be the biggest one.
And Jimmy the guide in volatility and returns on Gibraltar.
Just a quick reminder: In terms of the volatility issue we have 3 different distribution systems going on inside Gibraltar now.
We have the traditional life consultant we have the bank channel and we have the independent agent.
Those last 2 are very spreadsheet-oriented third-party kinds of supplemental businesses.
So you're going to see a lot of volatility as we've discussed in Investor Day in those 2 less so on the life consultant one.
Although for frankly even there for the next couple of years you'll see more volatility than you have historically or that you will when we finish Prudential-izing the Star and Edison sales organizations.
So just to the first point unlike POJ and Life Planner inside Gibraltar for the next couple of years we will see more volatility in results permanently in the third party but in the short term also in the life consultants.
And specifically on the Single Premium product which as you point out was a primary driver of the bank channel which is really what it's limited to it it's not much of a factor outside of that but inside the bank channel it really dominated the quarter primarily because as Mark pointed out in his opening comments a lot of the competitors have been pulling back for more aggressive either plan designs product designs or the rate setting.
So there it's gone up a fair bit.
The challenge with that part because it's Single Premium it's much more sensitive to the interest rate market so we applied a few techniques there that we don't apply anywhere else.
One is we do adjust the crediting rates but those obviously you can't move every time the interest rate market moves.
So we will moderate as time goes on with that as was pointed out.
But secondly we also in this product can manage the sales volume by channel so we will limit some of the sales.
And the third is we also look at commissions so we can lower commissions over time both to dampen the sales if we think it's disproportionate and also to improve the profitability.
So all 3 of those will be active factors.
In general we're pretty comfortable that while it's at the lower end of our target range at the moment as interest rates move up it will be better.
But then on average it's -- we're comfortable with it as part of the portfolio.
For example while it's high in this quarter year-to-date it's less than 20% of our sales which I think is a key fact to keep in mind unlike some of the competitors who concentrate or are even limited to third party.
For us this is simply part of a supplemental distribution.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And maybe if I could ask just one more of Charlie.
In the disability business margins are still pretty depressed but you've seen a couple of quarters of improvement now so just what's your expectations for that business? And as you are raising prices what do you see in the market in terms of competitor behavior? Is the pricing environment overall getting better or is it not? I think it's still on the disability side relatively competitive but we do see pricing going up.
We are certainly raising pricing consistent with what we've said before.
So while we're not pleased with the overall number yet in disability we're pleased that our efforts are beginning to have some tractions.
We've had 4 quarters of declining benefit ratio.
It's not back to the 88% to 92% that we're -- that is the -- is where we wanted to be.
But what we said on Investor Day is that we're taking aggressive action and that we have been for over a year now to grind down that ratio back to where it should be.
And we've made some progress this quarter particularly in claims management.
Cases that are terminated were ones with relatively high severity meaning the average reserve amount released had increased.
On the other hand new claims incidents and severity continue to remain high consistent with where the economy is today.
So while we can't predict accurately the rate of improvement in our disability ratio we have been and we'll continue to do whatever it takes to get the ratio back to where it should be.
But said differently this will not be a linear process.
It has been for the past 4 quarters but it won't necessarily be.
We're in 1 year into our multiyear process and the economy isn't helping so while the trends lane -- the trend line down will continue you can expect there to be variation quarter-to-quarter but over the long term we'll get the ratio back to where it needs to be.
Jimmy it's Mark.
I want to come back to one thing.
And I know I promised I wasn't going to parse line items but I want to make sure this pension accounting change doesn't devolve into something that it's not.
This pension accounting change mitigates a drag that would not be here under our original assumptions.
It doesn't represent an unanticipated benefit or a windfall.
It's offsetting something that wouldn't have been part of the negatives as we set the original objective.
So you shouldn't be thinking of this as a nice healthy surprise on the upside you should be thinking of it as something that helps out a little on some of the other stuff that's gone on on the downside.
Our next question comes from the line of Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Just one more kind of around capital and FSOC.
Assuming there's a designation -- whether or not there's a designation sometime next year for Prudential and other folks that are non-bank SIFIs what's your expectation about how the stress test process would move forward kind of before designation and after designation based on what you know now? I would say highly uncertain.
The discussion of the capital insolvency and risk regime is very much ongoing.
And I think there have been lessons in the market about the challenges related to applying the bank stress test to an insurance company and I believe that those challenges have been noted.
So I'd say very much work in process.
I wouldn't want to speculate and really don't know.
That's got to be sorted out.
Research Division</strong> Could you -- is it -- but if you were designated but there were no Prudential standards could you even take a stress test? Well we need a framework in which to conduct the stress test.
We do our own around here.
We've talked about our capital protection plan.
And the way in which we stress our system for our internal test is actually extremely harsh and probably all in in terms of the direct impact on us harsher than the bank framework.
Although I don't want to comment on a lot of specific details there because we don't do it that way.
But we would need a framework in which to conduct the stress test.
And right now I don't think we have that.
But just taking from Mark's point: We conduct our own internal stress test and we put in a plan in place to remediate the impacts of that stress.
In a way there's something inconsistent because our core business is loss absorption whereas the approach that's taken to the banking world is to think of loss absorption as an add-on.
And for us it's built into everything about the way in which we reserve and the way in which we manage assets and liabilities and the way in which we capitalized.
So -- and there's kind of an anomaly there around the imposition of a loss absorption picture on a company whose core business is loss absorption.
Research Division</strong> Right understood.
And I'm just trying to think about it more from a procedural perspective but I appreciate your commentary.
And if I could real quick just on the long-term care charge.
I wanted to try and understand and I apologize if I missed this how much of that $685 million is ultimately reflected in stat? And would that all come through AAT [ph]? Or is that going to be spread across different areas in stat? Well it's going to -- it's not going to be spread across a whole bunch of areas.
The first step is the charge will reduce surplus but at year end -- and I don't want to get into this now at year end we will have to run the AAT testing against the cash flows and establish an AAT reserve at year end.
Research Division</strong> So when you've adjusted AAT in the past has long-term care been the big driver? And what -- because that reserve's built actually over time right over the last few years as rates have gone lower.
Has that been the big kind of thing in the background for long-term care? Right.
As you know AAT is sensitive to interest rate.
So as interest rates have graded down over the years we have been building in AAT reserves for our long-term care.
I can give you the math.
At year-end 12/31/11 that AAT reserve for long-term care was $400 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when you tested -- when you did discharge for long-term care I assume you updated your outlook for lower interest rates.
Was that by the -- so was it larger than the overall change of around 100 basis points? No no no.
You apply the same we applied the same rules in long-term care as we did across the portfolio.
Yes randy you know that the AAT reserve will reflect the low rate scenario in the New York 7 so it won't exactly match the assumption that we're using in GAAP.
But as Rich pointed out we had $400 million at the end of last year.
It will be rerun this year.
Actually the way AAT works is you start from scratch every year and post a new reserve and that work has yet to be done.
Our next question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just a real quick follow-up on Randy's question on the long-term care charge though.
There's no corresponding statutory charge in 3Q from this GAAP charge is there or do I have that wrong? Yes there is.
There's a -- there's not a corresponding charge.
There's an independent calculation in statutory for this event in the 3Q but that will be refreshed in the 4Q when the final number is cast.
Research Division</strong> Okay so we'll get that next quarter.
So then just real quick one on the pension adjustment.
So this benefits 2012 does it -- in your guidance for 2013 is there any expectation that that benefit grows? It does not decline but it continues.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Okay.
And then I just -- I know you guys don't want to talk about capital deployed or earnings expected from any of these one-off transactions individually the GM the Verizon or the Hartford but I'm hoping you'd be at least somewhat willing to give us some help in understanding the capital deployed and the earnings contribution from maybe the 3 of them in aggregate.
I mean there's an awful lot of -- it appears anyway that there's an awful lot of capital and there's an awful lot of earnings that ought to come that's being deployed and should be generated from these transactions.
At least in part it's being funded by what was otherwise expected to be buybacks.
So is there any help you can provide on that? Because I think it's an important one.
The help that we provided has been to acknowledge that the range of capital requirements that's been discussed in the marketplace is reasonable in terms of how we think about these businesses and to add that the return is consistent with the objectives that we've set for this kind of a transaction but also consistent with the overall corporate ROE objectives.
So we've acknowledged those points and believe that the people who have thought this through and put numbers out there have not been very far off.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well I -- and that's fair.
I think that's been probably a little bit more -- a little bit easier to do though with the pension risk transfer deals.
I'd -- I'm still sort of curious as to beyond a reinsurance ceding commission that you'll be paying for the Hartford life deal how much more capital you'll be putting behind that once it's on your books but...
Randy in a way it doesn't matter because whatever that capital is it's going to return the hurdle rates that we need to support our 13% objective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then last quick question for you is on the S&amp;P 500 assumption they -- over a long period of time you have assumed 8%.
You're assuming 6% now.
I -- it's probably certainly more conservative relative to 8%.
I'm just wondering if you can give us some kind of an estimate on how much that difference in assumption impacts your overall earnings outlook or ROE expectation for 2013.
Can you help us with an estimate on that impact of 8% versus 6%? It's not.
It...
Everybody is shaking their head.
But it's all in our forecast but I'm not sure we have it broken out the way you're asking it.
Cumulative over time it may amount to something but one year I wouldn't sweat over it.
I guess the other thing I'd say John this is John is that what is important to keep in mind here is that some of these moves we've made recently that start at the 2 risk transfer transactions Hartford and Star/Edison had all made us less market sensitive less appreciation sensitive and we clearly were going into the financial crisis.
And we've got a lot more balance.
They've got more stability kind of like International and Star/Edison.
It's got both stability scale and growth but it's a materially enhanced business mix from the one we had at that time.
And less dependent on appreciation frankly more driven off of business fundamentals on flows and sales than as that time too.
So we think we're in a much better place.
Research Division</strong> Well I -- and John I appreciate that.
Where I was trying to go with the question was I -- your business mix versus many of your larger peers has been less rate sensitive more capital markets sensitive.
And in an environment certainly post the election where it appears long-term rates lower for even longer I would have thought there'd be even that much more interest in Prudential on a relative basis.
That's why I was trying to go there.
We appreciate that sentiment.
We'll go to the line of Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess following up on John's question in terms of the aggregate of capital management I think most of us have kind of thought about the pension risk transfer business from capital absorption as roughly 5% to maybe 6% of the liability.
And I think Rich you alluded to a number maybe above that because that's typically what we thought about in terms of GICs and other products.
So I guess if we take -- I guess the math I was going to try and do is if we take the 5% to 6% say we take 6% for the liabilities.
We add in Hartford we add in the dividend and we add in the buybacks we're getting in around $3.7 billion of capital management.
So I guess that would be along the lines that John you talked about in terms of being well in excess of the $3 billion.
I mean is that the math? Or are we missing something on the pension side of things? You got the math right.
I just want to correct one thing well not correct one thing modify one thing you said.
What I was saying was that the -- and Mark -- to embellish on Mark's point.
Mark said that you guys are out there calculating what you think the capital we need to hold against these transactions are.
And I'm talking about risk transfer.
You're in the ballpark okay? And that is the ballpark those ratios the 5% to 6% that you just quoted exceed the historical capital that we keep against GICs and stable value and group annuities and yet we are getting our hurdle rates on those higher capitals as we do on those other products.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just a few follow-up.
The buyback I mean I guess what gives you kind of the comfort that you can and you should be buying back stock given the murky kind of regulatory outlook? Remember we've been under the over-side of the Fed since summer of last year when the thrift holding company supervision kicked in at the Fed level so we have worked with the Fed and discussed our capital actioned with the Fed as we've gone through the past 12 months.
In terms of the current status of things we have de-thrifted so we're no longer under that umbrella.
And as a forward-looking question about the potential impact of SIFI as I've said we believe that we're very well capitalized and I think if you took a proper economic look at the GAAP balance sheet you would see capital ratios that are multiples of typical bank standards.
And we believe that right now the emphasize on doing the right thing and supporting the business and managing capital as we believe is appropriate should still be our course.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just lastly you guys did a pretty interesting hybrid offering back in August where you qualified for Tier 2 capital 100% equity treatment from S&amp;P.
And I guess we view this as a positive given some of the unknowns around non-bank SIFI and stress testing.
So just curious why you limited it -- limited this to just $1 billion? And could you do more to kind of bolster capital for stress tests? Or are there limitations on how much you can do? That was a very economic transaction we did back in August.
We took out some senior debt higher-costing senior debt replaced it with lower-costing junior capital okay got the equity credit.
And as we conditions like that present ourselves -- themselves in the future where we can call expensive debt and restructure our capital structure to make it more efficient we will do it.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First question I had was on the Hartford deal.
Rich if I understand it correctly -- and I guess you haven't given out explicit guidance so I'll talk more in general terms.
But my understanding was the Hartford deal was not expected to be highly earnings accretive in the first year.
And if that's true and I understood your other comment correctly that that deal is taking directly away from buyback is that actually earnings dilutive in the short term when we consider the opportunity cost? That's my first question.
It's hard to tell.
Maybe slightly dilutive to being a push.
Meaning that started up [ph] between a buyback and making an acquisition.
In the long run it will be accretive.
In the short run it's likely a push to be accretive [ph].
Research Division</strong> Okay so that implies actually Hartford will be contributing something in the 2013 time frame? Oh sure.
Sure.
The normalized basis x onetime charges it will be accretive to EPS absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Okay I just wanted to clarify that.
The next question I had I guess it's a little higher level so for either Mark or John.
So when we think about what you guys are doing from a buyback standpoint $250 million buyback over the next 3 quarters which is obviously a lighter number than you've done for a while now.
Is it safe to say directionality that just given the uncertainty that your view as a firm is it's safer to deploy money into block deals or pension deals or organically than it is for capital management activity that might come to an abrupt halt at some point depending on new regulations.
So how are you thinking about that from a high-level standpoint? No -- this is Mark.
We look at these deals as I've used the phrase a couple of times with a very sharp pencil and it really is a better deployment of capital that we're looking for.
So I know there's been off and on questions about whether or not the potential regulatory environment would nudge us one way or the other vis-à-vis acquisitions or business investments versus dividends or share repurchases.
And right now the answer to that is no we're making these decisions based on the best deployment of capital.
These are attractive transactions for us that will allow us in the future to pay more dividends and buy back more stock.
And so I understand the question but that has not been part of our analytic at this point.
I guess I would say that -- Tom that generally speaking the organic growth is cheaper and less intrusive way to develop business than M&amp;A.
And outsized organic growth like the PRT activity is particularly attractive for the reasons we talked about.
Everything from skill sets and absence of onetime costs that are -- or the execution risks and synergy realization.
This sort of thing.
So we still feel very very positive about the role that they have and the opportunity that presents itself to put the capital to work.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And Mark you had mentioned you guys have officially de-thrifted.
When did that happen? And I assume that means it's totally done there's no further hurdles.
The answer is yes.
It's totally done there no further hurdles and that happened right at the end of October Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other question I had -- and Rich correct me if I'm wrong but I -- it sounded like a change on -- maybe just a subtle change when you commented on reducing financial leverage.
Is that a change at all? And maybe that's just been ongoing.
Because one thing that certainly comes to mind for me if you look at what AIG announced and obviously they are regulated by the fed now officially and they had a very abrupt change with capital management plans where they said essentially they're going to start deleveraging from a share buyback program that they had previously indicated.
So just curious are you guys hearing anything similar in your preliminary discussions in terms of where you think eventually your financial leverage is? Is that going to be a real hot button item with where things are going here? This decision to reduce leverage below the 25% level is ours.
And what -- it's not that big a change.
We have always had a target of 25%.
Over the past couple of years that's bumped up above that and our objective is to get it below 25% so if we want to do something and we push it back to 25% or we push a bit over 25% it's okay because everybody is confident.
Then we're going to push it back down below it.
So yes 25% is our target.
We'd like to run a little bit borrow that but we're not going to not push it back there if there's the right deal it's got a lot of economics and it can support the leverage.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then last question the -- what you guys have done in terms of lowering your futures and returns in both fixed income and equities how does that apply to pricing products? I assume when you were using 8% return on equities and a somewhat lower-return for fixed income in the old way that's how you were pricing.
But -- or have you changed pricing to reflect that yet? Or is that on the come? How should we think about that? I think we are -- we look at pricing relative to the markets and relative to our assumptions.
So as Mark said we just changed pricing on some of our life product.
We changed pricing recently on annuities.
We're changing pricing in our Group products.
So we look at this continually and we'll change pricing accordingly.
And these assumptions feed into those decisions.
So it's a continuous thing we do and we'll continue to do it going forward.
And we have time for one final question.
That'll be from the line of Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
I just have one point of clarification.
On Slide 5 as we get to the guidance on an AOI basis in the footnote for unusual and non-recurring items you've got business integration costs and DAC unlockings.
Are we to take that to mean that there are going to be further unfavorable DAC unlockings on the legacy PRU business for which you just did the actuarial assumption review? This is -- I want to get the right spot here.
This is the -- this is that little box just to the left of the last gray column which says 2013 AOI basis? Yes.
Okay.
What's going in there there is some mean reversion.
It's not wholesale unlockings that we're expecting on anywhere along the magnitude that we talked about this year.
That bucket is 90% Hartford and Star/Edison integration costs.
Then maybe a little in there is we use the mean reversion technique.
If the equity markets don't perform the way we plan for them to perform we have a mean reversion formula.
We may have to unlock a bit of DAC in there.
But that column now does not -- plans for a modest amount of that.
It's mostly Star/Edison and -- or at Hartford.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen today's conference call will be available for replay after 2 p.m.
today until midnight November 15.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay systems by dialing (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 225939.
International participants dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Eric Durant.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Cynthia.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining our call.
Representing Prudential this morning are John Strangfeld Chief Executive; Mark Grier Vice Chairman; Rich Carbone Chief Financial Officer; Ed Baird Head of International Operations; Charlie Lowrey Head of International -- Head of Domestic Operations; and Peter Sayre Controller and Principal Accounting Officer.
Before we get started In order to help you to understand Prudential Financial we will make some forward-looking statements in the following presentation.
It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today.
Additional information regarding factors that could cause such a difference appears in the section titled Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures of our earnings press release for the fourth quarter of 2012 which can be found on our website at www.investor.prudential.com.
In addition in managing our businesses we use a non-GAAP measure we call Adjusted Operating Income to measure the performance of our Financial Services businesses.
Adjusted operating income excludes net investment gains and losses as adjusted and related charges and adjustments as well as results from divested businesses.
Adjusted operating income also excludes recorded changes in asset values that are expected to ultimately accrue to contract holders and recorded changes in contract holder liabilities resulting from changes in related asset values.
Our earnings press release contains information about our definition of adjusted operating income.
The comparable GAAP presentation and the reconciliation between the 2 for the quarter are set out in our earnings press release on our website.
Additional historical information relating to the company's financial performance is also located on our website.
John? Thank you Eric.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
Now that we've closed the books on 2012 I'll kick things off with some high-level comments on the year as a whole.
First earnings.
Earnings per share based on adjusted operating income of the Financial Services businesses were $6.27 compared to $5.83 a year ago.
This is an increase of about 8%.
If you remove the market-driven and discrete items in business integration costs we've disclosed each quarter which Rich and Mark will review with you for the fourth quarter the EPS increase will still be about 8%.
This is because these items reduced pretax adjusted operating income by roughly $200 million in 2011 and again in 2012.
Second financial strengths.
In capital positions of our U.S.
and Japanese insurance companies continue to meet the high standards we believe AA we've managed them to as you will hear from Rich shortly.
We have capacity to remain strongly capitalized even in stressed environments.
We've improved our ratio of capital debt to total capitalization it is under 25% at year end and the quality of our investment portfolio has never been better.
With this strong financial position we're able to consider potential deals but we will do so with great care and selectivity.
We believe our acquisition of the Hartford's Individual Life business which closed in January offers attractive financial returns strategic benefits talent enhancements and manageable execution risk.
We like our prospects with this yet we know we need to prove it out.
We also remain in the market for opportunities to add outsized organic growth particularly in the area of pension risk transfer.
We closed our transactions with GM and Verizon in the fourth quarter and we will consider additional transactions on a case-by-case basis.
At the same time we take a balanced approach to investing in businesses and returning capital to our shareholders.
During 2012 we returned about $650 million of capital through our share repurchase program and an additional $750 million through our common stock dividend.
We intend to declare quarterly dividends starting with the first quarter of 2013.
Third commercial momentum.
We're a leader in the markets in which we've chosen to compete.
Our retirement business achieved record account values last year reflecting the major pension risk transfer transactions I mentioned as well as continued strong sales of investment-only stable products.
AUM has declined to a record high in Asset Management as institutional and retail net flows over the past year amounted to $30 billion.
In annuities the products we're offering reflect today's market environment.
We believe they provide our clients an attractive value proposition and our shareholders appropriate returns and risk.
We believe the Hartford's Life acquisition will produce attractive returns as well as enhanced distribution and excellent talent for our Individual Life business.
And as for Group Insurance we are confident we will resolve recent performance issues and we will fix this business a business which remains a significant participant in these markets.
Finally International Insurance continues to benefit from expanded distribution across multiple channels and from successful integration of Star and Edison.
So to conclude we turn the page on another year.
We feel that we have a good head of steam as we begin 2013.
We have high expectations for ourselves this year and we look forward to reviewing our progress with you as the quarters unfold.
With that I will turn it over to Rich.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
Last night we reported common stock earnings per share of $1.69 for the fourth quarter.
And that's based on adjusted operating income for the Financial Services business.
This compares to $1.78 per share in the year-ago quarter and that's also on a reported basis.
And as you -- we saw from your reports there was a lot of activity during the quarter.
Market driven and discrete items were as follows: In the Annuities business market performance relative to our assumptions caused us to release a portion of our reserves for guaranteed minimum debt to income benefits and led to a favorable DAC unlocking.
These items are partially offset by a write-down of capitalized software costs for a net benefit of $0.06 per share; in Retirement the favorable legal settlement related to previous losses on client investments managed by a third party produced a benefit of $0.11 per share; in Asset Management we recorded a gain on a sale of a previously impaired investment that was partially offset by a write-down of capitalized software cost and net benefit of $0.05 per share; in Individual Life we incurred costs relating to the Hartford's Life acquisition that closed in January resulting in a charge of $0.02 per share; in Group Insurance we increased legal reserves resulting in a charge of $0.03 per share; in International Insurance Gibraltar Life absorbed integration cost of $0.01 per share relating to the Star/Edison acquisition; in Corporate and Other results included costs of $0.08 per share charge reflecting a catch-up adjustment for accrued employee benefit liabilities in addition we recorded a $0.02 per share charge to write off bond issuance costs on high coupon debts we redeemed prior to maturity.
In total the items I just mentioned have a net favorable impact of about $0.06 per share on the fourth quarter results.
In the year-ago quarter market driven and discrete items produced a net benefit of about $0.26 per share mainly driven by favorable unlockings related to the 11% S&amp;P 500 increase and a gain on our sale of a stake in a Mexican private fund manager.
Taking these items out of both the current and the year-ago quarters the EPS comparison would be $1.63 for the current quarter versus $1.52 for the year-ago quarter an increase of about 7%.
This improvement in earnings reflects organic business growth cost synergies from the Star/Edison acquisition and the initial contribution from the pension risk transfer business that came onboard in November and December.
These contributions were partially offset by higher-than-normal level of expenses in several of our U.S.
businesses during the current quarter.
We estimate an expenses over baseline or run rate levels including such items as fund start-up costs and asset management and costs for process improvements across several businesses and a negative impact of about $0.14 per share on current quarter results.
A favorable catch-up in our effective tax rate in the quarter mitigated about half of this impact.
And Mark will discuss much more of the details of our businesses in a few minutes.
Moving to the GAAP results of the Financial Services business.
We reported a net loss of $214 million or $0.48 per share for the fourth quarter.
This compares to net income of $522 million or $1.08 per share a year ago.
The GAAP net loss for the current quarter includes amounts characterized as net realized investment losses of $1.7 billion pretax.
This compares to $598 million of pretax net realized investment losses in the year-ago quarter.
The main driver of this $1.7 billion in net realized losses was $1.5 billion of losses from asset and liability value changes driven by currency fluctuations.
These currency-driven losses primarily represent changes in the value of non-yen liabilities on the books of our Japanese companies whose functional currency is the yen.
During the quarter the yen weakened in relation to the currencies of these products causing us to record a loss in the income statement since it will take more yen to pay off the liabilities.
We consider this noneconomic because the liabilities are appropriately matched with investments in the currencies in which they will be settled.
Said another way the value in yen of these investments increased along with the liabilities.
Loss in the income statement is offset by a gain in the OCI a component of equity but not through the income statement with the end result to GAAP equity is essentially unaffected despite the volatility in reported net income.
The remaining $200 million of the $1.7 billion of realized losses includes net losses of $134 million from product related embedded derivatives and hedging activities and $59 million of impairments and real credit losses.
Book value per share on a GAAP basis amounted to $79.19 at year-end.
This compares to $69.07 a year earlier.
As of year-end gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturities were $2.1 billion down from $4.3 billion a year ago.
And we were in a net unrealized gain position of roughly $19 billion.
Excluding AOCI book value per share amounted to $57.86 at year-end.
And this compares to $58.39 a year ago.
The comparison of our book value on this basis is affected by the accounting geography mismatch from the asset and liability changes driven by currency fluctuations that I just mentioned earlier.
This accounting mismatch reduced book value by approximately $2.40.
Now turning to our capital position.
First I'll focus on insurance companies.
We are continuing to manage these companies to what we believe are double-edged standards.
Prudential Insurance began the year with an RBC of 491.
Our statutory results for 2012 are not final.
We estimate that RBC for Prudential Insurance as of year end 2012 will be in excess of our 400% threshold after paying a $600 million dividend to the holding company.
In Japan Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar Life each reported solvency margins comfortably above their targets as of their most recent statutory reporting date which was September 30 2012.
I'm confident that the end of this current fiscal year which ends March 31 2013 our Japanese companies will continue to report strong solvency margins relative to targets.
Looking at the overall capital position of the Financial Services business we calculate as you know we calculated our balance sheet capital capacity for the Financial Services business by comparing the statutory capital position and Prudential insurance to a full 100 RBC ratio threshold and then add capital capacity held at the parent company and other subsidiaries.
We began 2012 with on balance sheet capital capacity that we estimated is in the range of $4 -- $4 billion to $4.5 billion.
During the year we added about $3 billion of capital essentially driven by earnings excluding GAAP charges that do not affect our capital capacity most notably the FX measurement I just spoke about.
And we deployed a total of about $2 billion to fund capital needs of our businesses including asset adequacy testing reserves.
In addition we returned about $1.4 billion to shareholders through our share repurchase program and our common stock dividend.
This year's dividend of $1.60 represented a 10% increase from the 2011 annual dividend and we would pay in quarterly dividends starting in the first quarter of 2013.
We also used a portion of this capital capacity to reduce our leverage.
The net results of these activities brought on balance sheet capital capacity to roughly $3 billion as of year end before funding the Hartford's life acquisition.
Including about $1.5 billion to $2 billion that we estimate is readily deployable a modest increase from our -- from the estimates that we have provided you back in November.
Turning to the cash position at the parent.
At year-end cash and short-term investments at the parent company net of outstanding commercial paper was in excess of $5 billion.
We utilized a portion of this cash in January to fund the $615 million ceding commission to Hartford's Life -- for the Hartford's Life acquisition I should say and to repay about $1.2 billion of maturing debt.
The remaining cash in excess of our targeted $1.2 billion of liquidity cushion is available to repay maturing debt and fund operating expenses.
And now Mark is going to review more of the details of our businesses.
Thank you John; and thank you Rich.
I'll start with our U.S.
businesses.
Our annuity business reported adjusted operating income of $304 million for the fourth quarter compared to $373 million a year ago.
The reserve true-ups DAC unlocking that Rich mentioned had a net favorable impact of $57 million on current quarter results.
The benefit to current quarter results was mainly driven by market performance in relation to our assumptions which reflect the lower assumed long-term rates of return that we implemented in connection with our annual actuarial review in the third quarter.
The market performance we consider reflects both the fixed income and equity elements of the particular funds underlying our customer accounts.
This benefit was partly offset by a $9 million charge for impairment of capitalized software costs.
Results for the year-ago quarter included a net benefit of $176 million from a favorable DAC unlocking and reserve true-ups largely driven by strong equity markets in that quarter.
Stripping out the unlockings and true-ups and the current quarter software impairment annuity results were $256 million for the current quarter compared to $197 million a year ago or a $59 million increase.
This increase reflects higher fees driven by account value growth with average separate account values for variable annuities up by $23 billion from a year ago.
Higher expenses were a partial offset to a benefit from our growing base of fees.
Current quarter results include costs of $17 million that we estimate to be in excess of a baseline level for our current business volume.
This is for items including business process improvements in areas such as technology and back-office functions that are intended to give us a more efficient cost structure going forward.
As Rich mentioned these types of costs affect the current quarter results of several of our businesses.
Our gross variable annuity sales for the quarter were $3.8 billion compared to $4.4 billion a year ago and down substantially from $5.9 billion in the third quarter.
The lower level of current quarter sales reflects actions we have taken to adapt our products to the current environment.
In August we launched HDI 2.0 an updated version of our product with an increase in writer fees a higher minimum issue wage and lower payout rates than the earlier product.
We also withdrew our x shares or bonus product over the summer.
And in September we suspended acceptance of subsequent premiums on generations of products offered before 2011.
We filed a prospective late last month for a further update of our variable annuity product which we expect to roll out later this month.
The new product HDI 2.1 will limit the 5% roll-up period for protected withdrawal value to a maximum of 10 years and reduce payout rates at various age bands while retaining writer fees at 100 basis points for individual contracts and 110 basis points for spousal contracts and continuing our highest daily value proposition backed by auto-rebalancing tailored to the risk profile of each individual contract.
We believe the updated product will continue to be attractive to clients focused on retirement income security while offering appropriate return prospects in the current interest rate environment and contributing to the improvement of our risk profile.
The Retirement segment reported adjusted operating income of $225 million for the current quarter compared to $100 million a year ago.
Current quarter results include a benefit of $78 million from recovery under a settlement of losses we recorded in 2007 attributed to client funds managed by a third party.
Excluding this recovery results of the Retirement business are up by $7 million from a year ago.
Current quarter results benefited by about $40 million from the greater contribution from net investment results from institutional investment products largely representing the initial results from the 2 major pension risk transfer transactions that we closed in November and December.
This contribution and higher fees driven by growth in account values were partly offset by a lower contribution from net investment results associated with our Full Service products reflecting the impact of lower reinvestment yields over the course of the past year and the loss of spread income on bank deposits that we transferred to third parties in connection with our decision to restructure our savings and loan to a trust-only organization.
In addition higher current quarter expenses affected the comparison of results to a year ago.
Current quarter results include approximately $16 million of costs that we estimate to be in excess of a baseline level for the current business volume in Retirement for items including business process improvements as I mentioned earlier.
Total Retirement sales and deposits for the quarter were $43.1 billion including $33.6 billion for the General Motors and Verizon pension risk transfer transactions.
The General Motors and Verizon transactions added over 150 000 retirees to the base of more than 3.5 million individuals covered by our group annuities and brought our total group annuity account values to more than $60 billion at year-end.
These groundbreaking transactions improve the balance of risks in our businesses enhance our return prospects by deploying capital in a business that we know well and build our leadership potential in a market where we see great opportunity.
Excluding the General Motors and Verizon transactions gross sales and deposits were $9.5 billion in the current quarter compared to $14.7 billion a year ago.
The decrease is mainly a result of lower current quarter standalone sales of stable value wrap products to planned sponsors and fund managers which contributed $5.3 billion in the current quarter and $8.8 billion in the year-ago quarter to sales of our institutional investment products.
These sales are mainly driven by large case business and tend to be lumpy from 1 quarter to another.
In addition sales for the year-ago quarter included $1.6 billion from 2 longevity reinsurance cases another emerging area in the pension risk transfer market.
Full service retirement gross deposits and sales were $3.9 billion in the current quarter essentially unchanged from a year ago.
We continue to see limited activity in the mid- to large-case market which is our major focus.
The Asset Management business reported adjusted operating income of $139 million for the current quarter compared to $256 million a year ago.
Current quarter results include a $9 million charge for impairment of capitalized software costs while results for the year-ago quarter benefited by $96 million from the sale of our stake in a private pension fund manager in Mexico.
We have reclassified results from our international investments businesses including this sale to the Asset Management segment to reflect our alignment of the management of these businesses.
Excluding these items the Asset Management business produced adjusted operating income of $148 million for the current quarter compared to $160 million a year ago.
The contribution to results from what we call other related revenues which encompasses incentive transaction strategic investing and commercial mortgage activities increased by $13 million from a year ago as the $41 million benefit to current quarter results from the sale of a real estate related investment that Rich mentioned was largely offset by less favorable results from co-investments and lower performance-based fees.
Stripping out the discrete items I mentioned and results from activities that come under the heading of other related revenues adjusted operating income from the Asset Management business was down $25 million from a year ago as higher expenses in the current quarter more than offset the benefit of higher asset management fees driven by growth in assets under management.
Current quarter results include approximately $49 million of costs that we estimate to be in excess of a baseline level.
With the largest single item being about $20 million for costs associated with the launch of a new closed-end mutual fund.
The segment's assets under management stood at $827 billion as of year-end up about $110 billion or 15% from a year earlier.
Adjusted operating income for our Individual Life Insurance business was $99 million for the current quarter compared to $138 million a year ago.
Current quarter results include a charge of $15 million relating to our acquisition of the Hartford's Individual Life business that we closed in early January mainly representing transaction costs.
Excluding this charge results from Individual Life were down $24 million from a year ago.
This decrease reflected higher expenses including non-deferrable of costs associated with a substantially higher sales level in the current quarter.
In addition results for the year-ago quarter benefited by approximately $10 million from reduced amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and other items driven by favorable separate account performance relative to our assumptions mainly due to the 11% increase in the S&amp;P 500 in that quarter.
Individual Life Insurance sales based on annualized new business premiums amounted to $144 million for the current quarter up from $75 million a year ago.
The increase was driven by strong current quarter universal life sales through third-party distribution and reflects our improved competitive position as some key competitors have recently raised rates or withdrawn products from the market together with our expanding distributions through banks and wirehouses as well as accelerated purchases of these products as we implemented price increases during the fourth quarter.
The Group Insurance business reported a loss of $12 million in the current quarter compared to adjusted operating income of $42 million a year ago.
Current quarter results include a charge of $20 million to increase legal reserves.
Excluding this charge Group Insurance results are down $34 million from a year ago.
The decrease reflected less favorable group life underwriting results in comparison to a very strong contribution in the year-ago quarter as well as higher expenses.
Current quarter expenses include approximately $18 million of costs that we estimate to be in excess of a baseline level for items including business process improvements.
Group Insurance results continue to reflect unfavorable performance from our Disability business.
The actions we are taking to address this performance include enhancements of claims management pricing discipline on new business and repricing of cases that are up for renewal.
For example from mid to large cases which constitutes about 3/4 of our Group Disability premiums in force we repriced about 1/3 of the business in the period from February 2012 through the January 1 2013 renewal date per calendar year of business with average rate increases in the low double digits.
Group Insurance sales for the quarter were $58 million compared to $69 million a year ago with the entire decline driven by Group Disability.
Most of our Group Insurance sales are recorded in the first quarter based on the effective date of the business.
Turning now to our international businesses.
Gibraltar Life's adjusted operating income was $315 million in the current quarter compared to $202 million a year ago.
With all major aspects of the Star/Edison business integration now completed or nearing completion Gibraltar's results for the current quarter absorbed $10 million of integration cost compared to $94 million in the year-ago quarter.
Excluding integration costs Gibraltar's adjusted operating income was $325 million for the current quarter compared to $296 million a year ago.
Current quarter results reflect about $50 million of cost savings achieved thus far as a result of the business integration compared to about $10 million of early saves that benefited the year-ago quarter.
We remain well on track to achieve our targeted annual cost savings of about $250 million after the business integration is fully completed.
In addition foreign currency exchange rates including the impact of our hedging program contributed $16 million to the increase in earnings from a year ago.
The benefit of continued business growth was more than offset in the comparison of results by a less favorable level of policy benefits mainly reflecting mortality experience better than our average expectations in the year-ago quarter and higher expenses in the current quarter largely driven by items such as technology upgrades which tend to be nonlinear.
Our Life Planner business reported adjusted operating income of $332 million for the current quarter compared to $300 million a year ago.
The increase came mainly from continued business growth.
On a constant dollar basis insurance revenues including premiums policy charges and fees were up by 8% from a year ago.
In addition foreign currency exchange rates contributed about $13 million to the increase in earnings from a year ago.
International Insurance sales on a constant dollar basis amounted to $1.1 billion for the fourth quarter compared to $829 million a year ago.
Sales from Gibraltar life were $806 million in the current quarter compared to $542 million a year ago.
Current quarter sales include $429 million from our Single Premium yen-based whole life bank channel product compared to $41 million a year ago.
This sales surge continuing from the third quarter reflected actions by competitors earlier in the year which limited the alternatives available to bank customers with significant funds available for investment in life insurance products.
In order to limit our concentration in this product then maintain appropriate returns we have implemented crediting reductions and reduced commission rates effective January 1 of this year.
Along with taking actions to manage the mix of our bank channel sales we have also broadened our distribution commencing sales in December through SMBC one of Japan's megabanks.
With the addition of SMBC we are now distributing through each of Japan's 4 largest banks with our main focus on death protection products.
Excluding the bank channel's Single Premium product Gibraltar's current quarter sales were $377 million compared to $501 million a year ago.
The decrease reflected acceleration of sales into the first half of the year as we anticipated due to a tax law change in April that affected our cancer whole life product and crediting rate reductions that we implemented in the second quarter for our U.S.
dollar retirement and whole life products.
Life planner sales were $283 million in the current quarter compared to $287 million a year ago.
Sales by life planners in Japan amounted to $192 million down $10 million from a year ago.
This reflected a decrease of $38 million in our sales of cancer whole life product and U.S.
dollar products reflecting the acceleration of sales into the earlier part of the year due to the tax law change and our crediting rate reductions.
Life Planner sales outside of Japan were $91 million up from $85 million a year ago.
Corporate and other operations reported a loss of $371 million for the current quarter compared to a $285 million loss a year ago.
As Rich mentioned the current quarter loss includes a $54 million charge to increase our recorded liabilities for employee benefits based on completion of a review and a $15 million charge to write off bond issuance costs for debt that we redeemed prior to maturity.
Excluding these items the Corporate and Other loss was $302 million in the current quarter or $17 million greater than a year ago.
The greater loss in the current quarter was driven by higher interest costs mainly reflecting our deployment of capital debt in our businesses.
To sum up I'd say we've made solid progress over the past year toward the achievement of our longer-term objectives.
In the annuities business we've adapted our products to the current environment maintaining our compelling value proposition while improving our return prospects and our risk profile.
In Retirement we've built our leadership position in the pension risk transfer market with 2 major groundbreaking transactions totaling more than $30 billion in account values.
In the Asset Management business we've grown our base of fee producing assets under management with $30 billion of institutional and retail net flows over the past year.
We've strengthened our Individual Life business with the Hartford Life acquisition gaining strategic benefits in distribution and talent as well as solid financial prospects.
We've taken steps to improve our Group Insurance results including a change in the management team discontinuation of long-term care sales product repricing and enhancement of claims management.
And our International business continues to perform well benefiting from the successful integration of the Star and Edison businesses and business growth across multiple channels.
Thank you for your interest in Prudential today and I'll turn it back to John.
Thanks Mark.
Before we move on to your questions I'd like to make a few final remarks on our results and our strategic progress.
As we have discussed despite what was admittedly a noisy quarter for us you've heard numerous indicators of very sound fundamentals.
And by many measures we've had a strong year both in terms of current year results and at future positioning.
We've managed pricing discipline expense and product initiatives and capital deployment to position us well going forward.
Our view of earnings power and our potential to achieve and sustain a meaningfully differentiated return in our sector is reinforced by the actions that we took in 2012.
The improvement in organic performance the impact of substantial business flows beneficial new deals and initiatives coupled with the core strengths of our company give us confidence in the future.
Realistically speaking there will continue to be some noise.
And going forward as in the past we will continue to ensure that our underlying performance is clear to you as we report to discuss our results which leads me to one other point.
When we gave you our guidance for 2013 earnings and ROE last November we had in mind the impact of FX remeasurement on retained earnings as of September.
We will not consider ourselves to have achieved our ROE goal to the extent that it was made possible by reductions in equity from currency remeasurement.
We will make the apples-to-apples comparisons for you.
And similarly our compensation plans will also reflect this alignment.
In other words we won't be declaring victory based on the impact of things like the FX revaluation rather as we have said often we will get there the right way or not there at all and we believe that we are on a good track.
So with that we'd like to open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions]  And our first question will come from the line of Erik Bass from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I guess if we could just talk a little bit about the International business.
And you outlined some of the higher expenses that affected earnings this quarter.
Just hoping you could give a little bit more color on what these costs were and what if any of these expenses are likely to continue.
And then as we think about modeling this business what type of seasonality should we expect in earnings in 2013? Yes.
Erik this is Ed Baird.
There were in this quarter the kinds of seasonal factors as well as normal fluctuations that frankly you're going to find in almost every quarter.
How while some of these have a certain regularity to them others do not.
So for example on the IT it was lumpier in this quarter but the totality for the year of the IT expenses was still well within the budget.
So I would just caution on taking the result of this quarter or any 1 quarter and trying to do a straight linear extrapolation from there.
I think you'll find it more fruitful if you look at the totality of it for the year.
And if you do that I think you'll find something more reliable that's particularly true on the earnings but it's even true if get over on to the sales side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then within the businesses are there seasonal trends in terms of whether it's investment income or dividend payments or other things that we should expect to recur? Yes.
Just to drill down on that.
If you think in simplistic terms as the money coming in and the money going out it's sort of 2 channels on each of them.
On the money coming inside of it there is certain seasonality or other causes of fluctuations.
So for instance on the premium particularly these days where there's more of a shift away from recurring premium to Single Premium or to advance pay so that can start to cause on a quarter-on-quarter some fluctuation on the incoming premium.
Secondly as your question touches a point you can get the same on investments beyond a normal shift that can take place naturally from quarter-to-quarter.
You do get for example in the third quarter you tend to get more dividends.
So if you're doing a third to fourth quarter sequential comparison you're going to see some downward pressure there that is actually completely natural and not indicative of any broader story.
And the same's going to be true on sort of 2 channels with the outflow and you already raised one of them one would be around expenses you're going to see quarter-to-quarter certain natural fluctuations that can be caused simply by scheduling.
That's particularly true when you've got major projects going on such as the Star/Edison integration with those kinds of expenses are naturally going to have a certain lumpiness to them.
And you can even get it in the mortality with a book this big quarter-to-quarter you're going to see certain fluctuations in mortality but I would observe that this quarter as frankly with all the others we have seen during the year it's well within standard deviation.
And so if you're comparing 1 quarter to a prior quarter one could be at the high-end one that's a lower end but there is no underlying trend there that I would know or bring attention to.
Our next question comes from the line of Nigel Dally from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First just with the $100 million of expense that's above your baseline should we read those as onetime in nature impacting any fourth quarter results? Or will some of those expenditures continue through 2013? Sure Nigel this is Charlie.
I think the former is true.
We did take about $100 million as you said above the baseline charges.
But I think we wouldn't have lined those off if we didn't think they were onetimers.
And to give you some examples of what they were and Mark gave a couple but one would be the final formation fees that we had for $19 million in the fourth quarter the $33 million for the year.
A second would be increased costs and Retirement.
That should make the Full Service business more competitive we're always looking to do that.
And third are some technology and back-office expenses in annuities that will improve both expense management and I think the product itself over time.
So these are just 3 examples of the kinds of things that we think were nonrecurring and that's why we lined them off.
Research Division</strong> Okay secondly is capital.
Rich you mentioned your capital estimates included what was necessary to satisfy the asset adequacy test.
Is it possible to put some numbers around how much capital that absorbed and which business lines that related to? I'm presuming it's predominantly long-term care but was it related to other business lines as well? It was predominantly long-term care it was about $1 billion that we added.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I guess going back to some of Rich's earlier comments and maybe just thinking out to '13 on capital generation.
Obviously there's a lot going on you have 2 PVRT transactions that are large good cash flow generated out of those; you have the Hartford integration you have lower Star/Edison costs.
How should we think about capital generation in '13 vis-à-vis historically giving relationships of capital generation to operating earnings? We haven't quite fine-tuned that yet but I think the 50% rule that we've been throwing out lately that 50% of our cash flow is available to the holding company and some of that's going to pay holding company expenses but some of that is also going to emerge as excess capital during the year.
Research Division</strong> So 50% and then you pay Hold Co.
costs and interest costs? Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
I guess I want to go back to be Single Premium yen-denominated whole life product.
It was up sequentially something like $100 million in production.
I think the last quarter Ed you talked about it the margins being in your target but maybe at the lower end of that range.
Just looking at the production levels I guess how do you feel about the margins on that product kind of taking a deeper look at it? And where do you think the margins will go as you reprice and take the commissions down? Yes Mark this is Ed.
The character of the bank channel is different than our other channels that are captive in that it has the capacity to produce much more dramatic growth than you can get through a captive agency system.
And that's why as we described at our Tokyo Investor Day our strategy there's a little bit different than in our core captive agency systems.
The goal is the same in all of our channels and that is profitable growth.
And in the bank channel that requires more careful and frequent monitoring because of the capacity to have major sales in a relatively short period of time.
Now each of our products contributes to the high ROE and to that balance between growth and profitability in a different way.
But we're very careful with the bank to be at the conservative side both with product design and the pricing.
And again we try and briefly recap some of the things we got into in detail in our Tokyo Day.
What we do is both on the design of the product and in pricing we're very conservative.
So on pricing side we endeavor to be at low end if not frankly at the bottom in terms of crediting rate and other aspects of the design.
That in turn allows us to be equally conservative in our investment portfolio.
And I'm sure you're aware that our portfolio compared to others is considerably more conservative both in terms of its ALM matching in terms of not taking a currency bet in terms of the matching on the currency.
So right across the board we're more careful there.
So when we saw in this quarter the rise what we did was we moved very quickly to ensure that we would bring down our position from a comparative and competitive perspective so that going into this next quarter you will see us positioned again towards the more conservative end.
So it sounds like you're already aware that we did adjust downward both the implied crediting rate the commission rate we also put in just as a back stop sort of an overall maximum as to how much we would distribute during any 1 quarter in order to address the issue that Mark raised in his opening comments which is just to make sure we don't have any concentration of risk in any particular tranche of business that's coming in during the quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to touch base on a couple of items.
The first is Mark could you provide us your updated views on Pru potentially being designated an non-bank SIFI? Yes as you know from our acknowledgments we're in the process of being reviewed by the FSOC ultimately leading up to the FSOC level right now at the staff level.
And I would reinforce what we've said before which is that we're engaged in a high-quality process that includes a lot of effort a lot of work and a lot of engagement and the opportunity for us to address issues that we think are important here has been ample.
We don't believe as you've heard us say before that the quantitative evidence will lead to a conclusion that we're a SIFI but we're not sure exactly what other considerations there might be in the process so we're putting our best foot forward and working hard on where this may go.
Just a reminder before I move on to one other comment there are other things in the arena of SIFI going on the designation as a Global SIFI for example would also impact our relationship here as a domestic SIFI and with the Federal Reserve as a regulator so that's also out there.
And that process is continuing as well during the first half of this year.
And at some point that you've heard me make before is that it's more important that we get this right than which label we put on it so we're also actively engaged in discussions around solvency and capital standards and the process by which we might be assessed and measured by any group supervisor that may come out of either domestic SIFI or global SIFI or ComFrame or someplace else as one of these other processes moves along looking at large companies like Prudential.
So I don't have a specific update and I'm not going to handicap the odds but I would say that we're engaged in a high-quality process and we also have the opportunity to provide our reports and our comments and right now as well to work hard on the questions around solvency and capital standards.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then related to that there's I believe $250 million with share repurchase authorizations still existing through the first half of 2013.
Prudential did not repurchase stock in the fourth quarter.
Do you anticipate that Prudential will achieve that $250 million of buyback in the first half? Yes.
It's Rich.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry? I didn't catch that.
Yes.
Rich Carbone answered that.
Yes.
It's Rich.
I'm sorry for the short comment.
We'll go to the line of Joanne Smith with Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just wanted to cover the Life Planner business in Japan.
I understand that you've had some pretty good results there for the first 3 quarters of the year but they did stall a little bit in the fourth quarter.
And I did listen to the conversation about seasonality and some of the -- the fluctuations the natural fluctuations in that business.
But I'm just wondering if you could just give us a little bit more information on where some of the weaker spots where I mean you still delivered growth in earnings but it was -- you had double-digit growth in prior quarters and this is was about 6% as I calculated on an adjusted basis.
Yes Joanne I would go back to the earlier comment about being careful for the quarter.
It has a lot to do with simply the timing.
If you look at the year for the Life Planner model you'll find that they had an extraordinarily strong year.
So that both sales and earnings up in strong double digits in the 20% range and what's healthy about the sales I would comment on is the character of it.
What I mean by that is it's coming across evenly through all 3 sources of drivers.
In other words we're seeing both a growth in the headcount of about 4% 3% to 4%; we're seeing growth in productivity; and we're also seeing growth in average premium which is a brighter trend that we've highlighted in the past.
That's also true in our Gibraltar business and that's reflective of the fact that the retirement and gradually tapping into the higher income group of the aging population.
So both the quality of the sales and the quality of earnings in POJ on an annual basis I think you'll find to be extremely strong.
I cannot find anything in the fourth quarter that's outside the normal range in which there might be embedded a story.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the Gibraltar business I know that it's probably a little bit premature to be talking about M&amp;A at this juncture but it seems that the Star and Edison integration has gone quite smoothly.
You're realizing a lot of the synergies the expense synergies already.
I was wondering if you could just kind of give us an outline of what the M&amp;A landscape looks like in Japan and the rest of the Asian region if you have any interest in that? Sure.
Let me start with a broad sort of philosophical approach to the M&amp;A.
Our general preference is to acquire companies in countries that we're already in such as the Star/Edison acquisitions.
We have a long and I think fairly stated successful track record in that type of acquisition.
So we always look for those Japan Korea those kinds of countries would be places that we would be open to for that.
But in addition we also consider the possibility of entering new markets that we would do as Mark expressed earlier in his conversation on a careful and selective basis.
But a cautious expansion of the footprint is something that we would consider.
And so and geographically they would be in the kind of regions you've referenced.
The intrinsic growth rates that are possible in Southeast Asian and in Latin America are places that interest us.
We're not really interested in general in the mature markets of Western Europe where we don't have any meaningful presence unto which we could alter business.
But getting back to the core part of your question of Japan specifically.
Yes at the moment our group is still quite actively engaged although successfully over the major hump with the integrations of Star and Edison we do keep an open mind looking at a kind of companies there.
It will be interesting to see now that the new solvency margin rules are out whether or not that puts a certain degree of pressure on some companies that under the old measures I had adequate solvency margins but under these new more stringent solvency measures may not feel quite so comfortable.
So we do continue to monitor that having made a handful of acquisitions there over the last decade.
We do have a certain degree of quiet confidence about our abilities there.
We'll continue on to the line of Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a question about the 4 currency hedging program and how it's running through earnings.
And I think what we saw in the quarter was that the yen kind of hedge rate of 85 on the dollar was the reason that you saw kind of positive cash flows into the Japanese businesses.
In the guidance for 2013 I think assumes the yen at 80.
So that the first part of the question is is that 80 kind of where you're hedged at for the yen for 2013? It's Rich Carbone.
Yes we're hedged to the 80 for 2013.
Research Division</strong> And then when -- how should we think about that going forward if the yen continues to weaken? When do you kind of restrike those hedges and how should we think about it the yen stays at 95 or goes to 100 what would be a reasonable expectation of where that might have to float up to thinking about 2014? So let me just give you a little bit of background right? Half of our earnings that come out of Japan are in dollars U.S.
dollars and Aussie dollars; and half of our earnings that come out of Japan are in yen.
We hedge 100% of the next year's earnings the yen earnings completely.
So 2013 fully hedged at 80 no impact of the declining yen regardless of where it goes.
2014 we are 78% hedged as of today.
2015 we are 22% hedged for 2015.
And as this year progresses we begin to leg in to '14 and '15 and '16 so by the end of 2013 we'll be 100% hedged in for '14.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the 78% in '14 and the 22% at '15 that's at 80 right? That is not at 80 because remember you're not hedging at spot rates you're hedging at forward rates and so you're averaging in the forward rate and that's going to change dependent upon the interest rate differential between the dollar the interest rate differential between U.S.
interest rates and Japanese interest rates that's hard to predict where we sit here today.
And it's rolling 3 years forward so it will not all have gone on at the same time.
There's an ongoing program so it won't match exactly the 80.
As Rich said it's a forward rates not spot and it's a rolling implementation.
Research Division</strong> So in my -- I guess in layman's terms though it would be reasonable to expect that that wherever your hedge hedged if the yen weakens materially let's say it's goes to 100 or 105 you should be able to keep your hedging level below that because you're lagging into it over time? That's correct.
And we are using forwards rates not spots right? We're hedging at the forward not the spot which is lower than the spot.
Well having said that just it will run its course at the end of the day.
The hedge is rolled forward 3 years from the current year so we'll be renewing hedges now further out into '14 for example that are at rates that are not as attractive as 80.
Research Division</strong> No understood.
I mean I think this simplistically people worry about half the business coming from Japan and what the impact is so I just wanted to clarify kind of the structure of the yen currency hedge so that's all.
Yes but half the business that's coming from Japan is in dollars so...
Research Division</strong> No I don't -- understood.
Yes I mean I think that -- I mean the dollar piece is the dollar piece but the yen piece is what would move the translation right so...
Absolutely.
Yes.
Next we'll go to the line of Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
This is a follow-up to Randy's question.
So if half of your business in Japan is in U.S.
dollars and Aussie dollars what is the impact of demand for products denominated in those currencies in a weakening yen environment? The dollar products have represented for a while somewhere between 30% and 40% of our sales.
And if you look back over oh probably the last 5 years what you'll see is that there isn't a strong correlation between the currency shift to the extent that I could find any -- and this isn't much of a trend it tends to be that when the yen is strengthening they'll tend to go more to the dollar.
And when it's not maybe less to it.
But I'd be careful about that I don't want to overplay that because again we have been selling dollar denominated retirement income product as a lead product in Japan for about 7 years now and I've not seen material fluctuations based on what has over that period of time obviously been very substantial swings in the exchange rate.
All right.
And does the weakening yen impact the SMR for your Japan companies at all? Let me think of where it would.
No.
I don't believe it does.
No it doesn't.
We're protected on the local books.
We'll go to the line of Jeff Schuman of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> If I understood Rich correctly you gave us a picture of capital capacity at 12/31 which I think was $3 billion on balance sheet $1.5 billion to $2 billion readily deployable but I think you said that was before Hartford.
So can you help us pro forma that? I mean we know you wrote the check for the ceding commission but we don't really know all in what was the impact to capital capacity.
So can you help us there please? I think the way you ought to think about that is that we're going to write the check the check's going to take down for that moment in time the check's going take down our capital capacity.
We're going to rebuild that capital capacity by only buying back the 250 of shares during the year and -- during the first quarter excuse me the first half sorry the first half.
And then -- I don't want to mislead you there.
And then the retained earnings billed will restore our capital capacity at some point throughout the year.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you're telling me that will rebuild but I guess I'm -- are you going to help us understand what the pro forma view of 12/31 is? No.
I'm not going to give you a projection on total capacity because there's a whole lot of stuff that's going happen between now and March and now and June and now with the rest of the year.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just kind of big picture wondering if you could help us kind of reconcile the thinking a little bit.
Whatever the all-in investment in the Hartford is I mean does leave you with some readily deployable capital not as much as some other points in time.
Mark's been very open in talking again about the regulatory overhangs.
And yet I was surprised that John opened up early on by talking pretty openly about considering possible transactions and pension risk transfer deals and so forth.
So it would seem like at a time when you -- maybe you were going to have to conserve capacity a little bit but can you help us there please? Yes this is Mark.
We've been asked over the last few years a number of times with respect to the regulatory issues whether or not we should be hoarding more capital in anticipation of the possible imposition of a so-called SIFI buffer or whether or not we should be throwing capital over board so we don't have to get permission to deploy it if we wind up in a different regulatory regime.
And what we've said all along with respect to that issue is that we believe we're doing the right thing.
We have a lot of discipline around the deployment of capital and a lot of discipline around the levels of capital that we believe are appropriate for us and our businesses given our risks.
And so with respect to the regulatory issue we continue to behave on the basis that we're soundly and well capitalized and soundly and well run with respect to risk and capital discipline.
So on that one in the context of the way in which you're asking the question we would not currently be shading as one way or the other.
And as I said we've had advice that goes both directions we would not be shading this one way or the other because we're doing what we believe is the right thing.
And remember as Rich said we generate a lot of capital we have capacity both the on-balance sheet capacity and the ability of the company to generate capital are sufficient to allow us to contemplate either outsized organic transactions as John referenced to support the ordinary organic growth of our businesses and also to consider the possibility of additional deals where they fit our requirements.
And with that we will conclude our question-and-answer session.
Today's conference will be available for replay after 1:30 p.m.
today until midnight February 14.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system by dialing (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 272217.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the First Quarter 2013 Earnings Teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Eric Durant.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Cynthia.
Good morning.
To say the least we know that you have been running a gauntlet of earnings calls today so special thanks for joining our call.
We actually delayed the beginning of this call to accommodate those of you who have been otherwise engaged.
Representing Prudential on today's call are John Strangfeld CEO; Mark Grier Vice Chairman; Ed Baird Head of International; Charlie Lowrey Head of Domestic Businesses; Rob Falzon Chief Financial Officer; and Peter Sayre Controller and Principal Accounting Officer.
Our presenters today will be referring to slides.
If you would like to follow along they can be found on our Investor Relations website at www.investor.prudential.com.
In order to help you to understand Prudential Financial we will make some forward-looking statements in the following presentation.
It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today.
Additional information regarding factors that could cause such a difference appears in the section titled Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures of our earnings press release for the first quarter of 2013 which can be found on our website at www.investor.prudential.com.
In addition in managing our businesses we use a non-GAAP measure we call Adjusted Operating Income to measure the performance of our Financial Services businesses.
Adjusted operating income excludes net investment gains and losses as adjusted and related charges and adjustments as well as results from divested businesses.
Adjusted operating income also excludes recorded changes in asset values that are expected to ultimately accrue to contract holders and recorded changes in contract holder liabilities resulting from changes in related asset values.
Our earnings press release contains information about our definition of adjusted operating income.
The comparable GAAP presentation and the reconciliation between the 2 for the quarter are set out in our earnings press release on our website.
Additional historical information relating to the company's financial performance is also located on our website.
John? Thank you Eric.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
Before we discuss specifics in the quarter I'd like to kick things off with a few words: first regarding our results; and second regarding the visual aids Eric mentioned that we've added to enhance the discussion.
So let's begin with the results.
We're very pleased with the results for the first quarter and we believe we're off to a good start to achieve our goals for 2013.
The building blocks supporting our enhanced performance are solidly in place and in particular we're encouraged by the visibility results from a number of initiatives we've implemented over the last few years.
Retirement U.S.
Individual Life and International Insurance all contributed significantly to our results for the quarter.
Now we're mindful that one quarter does not a year make and that we did benefit from a generally favorable market conditions and mortality in the quarter.
That said solid fundamentals largely account for the promising start to the year.
Of course challenges remain and we'll continue to focus upon the delivery of business results that drive financial performance that support our goals.
In sum a great start.
As for the new slides as Eric mentioned these are available on Prudential's Investor Relations website.
They have been provided to enhance our discussion with you.
We appreciate that noise in the numbers as well as developments like new product introductions or prices changes can sometimes make it difficult to interpret what's going on.
We hope these visual aids will help clarify underlying trends and results and business drivers and that's the basic intention of them.
In a moment Mark Grier will take you through our results for the quarter then Rob Falzon our new Chief Financial Officer will cover our capital and liquidity picture.
And then I'll sum up very briefly and move on to the Q&amp;A.
So with that Mark over to you.
Thanks John.
Good morning good afternoon or good evening depending on where you are.
I'll add my thanks to joining us.
And as both John and Eric mentioned I'll be referring to slides that are in the deck to which you have access through our Investor Relations website.
I'll start with Slide 2 an overview of our financial results for the quarter.
On a reported basis common stock earnings per share amounted to $2.28 for the first quarter based on after-tax adjusted operating income of the Financial Services businesses.
This compares to EPS of $1.61 a year ago.
After adjusting for market-driven and discrete items in both the current quarter and the year-ago quarter EPS was up 49% amounting to $2.13 compared to $1.43.
This increase is largely the result of underlying organic growth in our U.S.
businesses over the past year; the first full quarter contribution from the pension risk transfer business we put on the books in the fourth quarter; the initial contribution from the in-force Individual Life Insurance business we acquired from The Hartford in January; continued growth of our International Insurance business; and finally a more favorable claims experience across several businesses.
On a GAAP basis we reported a net loss of $721 million for the current quarter.
This reflects the accounting impact of foreign currency remeasurement of non-yen liabilities on the books of our Japanese insurance companies.
Book value per share excluding accumulated other comprehensive income or AOCI amounted to $55.94 at the end of the first quarter down $1.92 from year end on a reported basis.
If you adjust for the foreign currency remeasurement of non-yen liabilities in other words if we didn't have the geography mismatch where the offsetting gains on the assets are included in AOCI rather than net income book value would be up $1.50 per share since year end after payment of our first quarterly dividend of $0.40 per share.
And if you add the numbers shown on Slide 2 at the bottom you would arrive at a book value of $59.74 adjusting book value for the total impact of the FX revaluation.
As we've told you we won't consider ourselves to have achieved our ROE goal based on printing a result that is largely driven by reducing the denominator due to foreign currency remeasurement.
If you adjust for that our annualized ROE for the first quarter would be 15.6% based on adjusted operating income as reported.
Slide 3 shows a rundown of the short list of market-driven and discrete items included in our results for the quarter.
In the Annuities business the equity market increases in the quarter caused us to release a portion of our reserve for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits and led to a favorable DAC unlocking resulting in a benefit totaling $0.08 per share.
In Individual Life we absorbed integration costs of about $0.01 per share related to The Hartford Life acquisition.
In International Insurance a gain in Gibraltar Life from the sale through our consortium of the last part of our investment in China Pacific Group resulted in a benefit of $0.09 per share.
This has been quite a successful investment for us.
From the time of our initial investment in 2006 through its conclusion in the current quarter we realized a total of about $525 million on an initial investment of $75 million.
Lastly within corporate and other results we recorded a charge of $0.01 per share to write off bond issuance costs on high coupon debt that we plan to redeem prior to maturity.
In total the items I mentioned had a net favorable impact of $0.15 per share on current quarter results.
Removing the benefit of market-driven and discrete items from adjusted operating income and increasing the ROE denominator to add back foreign currency remeasurement would produce an annualized ROE of 14.7% for the quarter.
Slide 4 shows 2 views of our ROE trend.
The blue bars are as reported based on adjusted operating income and with equity excluding AOCI.
And you can see some variability that results from the impact of market-driven and discrete items on the AOI numerator and foreign currency remeasurement on the denominator.
You can see a trend that's more closely aligned with our business results in the green bars where we've removed the impact of market-driven and discrete items from the numerator and removed the effect of foreign currency remeasurement from the denominator.
On this basis annualized ROE for the current quarter was 14.7% as I mentioned compared to 10.2% a year ago.
On a GAAP basis results for the Financial Services business in the first quarter include amounts characterized as net realized investment losses of $3 billion pretax comprised of the items you see here on Slide 5.
Foreign currency remeasurement losses primarily represent changes in the value of non-yen liabilities relating to products denominated in U.S.
dollars and other currencies on the books of our Japanese companies whose functional currency for accounting purposes is the yen.
The weakening of the yen during the quarter required us to record an accounting loss in the income statement because it would take more yen to pay off these liabilities.
We consider this loss noneconomic because the liabilities are matched with assets in the currencies in which they will be settled.
And the loss in the income statement is offset in AOCI a component of equity but outside of the income statement.
The remainder of the $3 billion of net pretax realized losses included mark-to-market driven losses of $412 million from product-related embedded derivatives and hedging activities and $87 million of impairments and credit losses on investments.
Moving to our business results and to Slide 6.
I'll start with U.S.
Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division.
This slide shows a view of the results of these businesses and the adjustments that we would make for market-driven and discrete items to get a view of underlying performance relative to a year ago.
Slide 7 highlights the Annuity business.
After adjusting for the unlockings I mentioned earlier which were mainly driven by favorable market performance relative to our assumptions in both periods Annuity results were $310 million for the quarter up $85 million from a year ago.
Slide 8 is a view of the trend of earnings for the Annuities business.
Most of the earnings come from base contract charges linked to account values.
And when we remove the impact of unlockings and other one-off items we've disclosed what remains is an earnings trend that reflects our account value growth.
Account values amounted to $143 billion at the end of the quarter up 15% from a year ago.
The increase was driven by $11 billion of net flows over the past year together with market appreciation and produced a 16% increase in policy charges and fees.
Results also benefited from a reduced drag from distribution and other costs which rose less rapidly than account values or revenues.
On Slide 9 our gross annuity sales for the quarter were $4.2 billion down from $5 billion a year ago.
The lower level of current quarter sales reflects actions we've taken to adapt our products to the current environment.
In late February we launched our current living benefit feature called HDI 2.1.
This update limited the 5% roll-up period for protected withdrawal value to a maximum of 10 years and reduced payout rates at various age bands while retaining rider fees at 100 basis points for individual contracts and 110 basis points for spousal contracts and continuing our highest daily value proposition backed by auto rebalancing tailored to the risk profile of each individual contract.
This product update continues a series of actions we've taken to maintain appropriate return prospects and improve our risk profile.
Over the past year we've increased rider fees raised the minimum issue age for living benefits and reduced payout rates.
In addition we've withdrawn our X shares or bonus product and suspended acceptance of subsequent premiums on generations of products offered before 2011.
While it's reasonable to assume that a portion of our first quarter sales represented accelerated purchases due to the change over to HDI 2.1 we believe our new product continues to offer a solid value proposition in an attractive market.
Slide 10 highlights the Retirement business.
The Retirement business reported adjusted operating income of $228 million for the current quarter compared to $156 million a year ago.
Current quarter results benefited by about $70 million from greater contributions from net investment results and from case experience largely representing the first full quarter of results from the 2 major pension risk transfer transactions that we closed late last year.
A benefit of roughly $10 million from higher fees driven by account value growth was essentially offset by higher expenses as we continue to invest in this business.
On Slide 11 total Retirement gross deposits and sales were $9.5 billion for the quarter compared to $9 billion a year ago.
Full service gross deposits and sales were $5.7 billion for the quarter including 5 large case sales of $100 million or more up from $4.6 billion a year ago.
Stand-alone institutional gross sales amounted to $3.8 billion in the current quarter compared to $4.4 billion a year ago.
Current quarter sales included $3.7 billion of stable value wrap products sold to plan sponsors and fund managers while the year-ago quarter included $3.5 billion of those sales and a $700 million longevity reinsurance case.
Total retirement net flows for the current quarter amounted to $2.5 billion and account values stood at a record high $299 billion at the end of the quarter up $60 billion from a year ago including about $33 billion from the pension risk transfer transactions late last year.
Slide 12 highlights Asset Management.
The Asset Management business reported adjusted operating income of $175 million for the current quarter compared to $128 million a year ago.
While most of the segment's results come from Asset Management fees the contribution from what we call other related revenues which encompasses results from incentive transaction strategic investing and commercial mortgage activities is inherently volatile.
These activities contributed $40 million to current quarter earnings an increase of $26 million from a year ago driven largely by performance-based fees associated with public equity and fixed income funds we manage and also improved commercial mortgage results.
The remainder of the increase in results came from higher Asset Management fees driven by growth in assets under management.
The segment's assets under management reached a record-high $840 billion at the end of the quarter up 15% from a year ago.
Slide 13 shows U.S.
Individual Life and Group Insurance division results.
Here the results adjusted for The Hartford integration costs.
The next slide highlights the Individual Life business.
After adjusting for integration costs Individual Life reported earnings of $145 million for the current quarter up $33 million from a year ago.
The in-force block of business we acquired from The Hartford contributed about $32 million.
While the business integration is off to a good start these early results reflect only modest initial realization of cost synergies.
We expect a total of about $130 million of integration costs over a period of 2 to 3 years including about $50 million this year to achieve targeted annual cost savings of about $90 million after the business integration is completed.
Excluding the Hartford business Individual Life results were essentially unchanged from a year ago.
The benefit of more favorable mortality experience on the legacy Prudential business was essentially offset by a lower contribution from net investment results and by higher distribution costs reflecting the expansion of our third-party distribution system with the acquisition as well as higher sales in the current quarter.
On Slide 15 Individual Life sales based on annualized new business premiums amounted to $216 million for the current quarter including $63 million from the third-party distribution partners that came to us with The Hartford acquisition.
This compares to total sales of $79 million a year ago.
The current quarter sales level was mainly driven by the strong competitive position of our universal life products coupled with our growing footprint in banks and wirehouses which was significantly enhanced by The Hartford's strength in those channels.
We continue to focus on appropriate returns on these products and we implemented price increases both in the fourth quarter of last year and in February of this year.
Slide 16 highlights Group Insurance.
The Group Insurance business reported adjusted operating income of $9 million in the current quarter compared to a loss of $40 million a year ago.
Claims experience was more favorable in the current quarter both in Group Life and Group Disability.
Slide 17 shows the earnings trend in Group Insurance.
Fluctuations in claims experience and expenses have affected the pattern of Group Insurance results.
Our Group Life claims experience in the year-ago quarter was the most unfavorable of the past 5 years and the return to more typical levels thereafter and through the current quarter confirmed our analysis that revealed no systemic or systematic issues.
Group Disability results while improved from a year ago continue to be a drag on segment earnings.
The actions we are taking to address this performance include pricing discipline on new cases repricing of cases that are up for renewal and enhancement of claims management which contributed to increased claims termination and an 8-percentage-point improvement in the benefit ratio from a year ago.
Slide 18 shows the results of our International Insurance business adjusting for the China Pacific gain in the current quarter and for integration costs.
Slide 19 highlights the Life Planner operation.
Our Life Planner business reported adjusted operating income of $422 million for the quarter up $40 million from a year ago.
Foreign currency exchange rates which reflect our hedging of yen income at JPY 80 this year versus JPY 85 last year contributed $14 million to the increase in earnings.
The remainder of the increase was driven by continued business growth.
On a constant dollar basis insurance revenues including premiums policy charges and fees were up 12% from a year ago in the Life Planner business.
Slide 20 highlights Gibraltar and other operations.
After adjusting for market-driven and discrete items including integration costs Gibraltar Life reported earnings of $392 million for the current quarter up by $120 million from a year ago.
The current quarter benefited from a greater contribution from investment results driven partly by non-coupon investments which produced about $25 million higher income than the average of the past 4 quarters.
Current quarter results reflected about $50 million of cost savings achieved thus far from the Star/Edison business integration compared to about $30 million in the year-ago quarter.
The current quarter also benefited from a more favorable level of policy benefits with a mortality contribution of about $10 million above the average of the past 4 quarters.
The remainder of the increase reflected continued business growth and a $6 million benefit from foreign currency exchange rates.
Turning to Slide 21.
International Insurance sales on a constant dollar basis were $860 million for the current quarter compared to $850 million a year ago.
Market developments and pricing actions we've taken have produced some volatility in the quarterly pattern of sales.
The first and second quarters of last year reflected surges in sales in Japan from our cancer whole life product in anticipation of a tax law change and in our U.S.
dollar whole life and retirement income products from purchases in advance of price increases we implemented.
In the third and fourth quarters we experienced a surge in bank channel sales of our single premium yen-based whole life insurance product reflecting competitor actions earlier in the year which limited the alternatives available to bank customers who had substantial funds to invest in life insurance products.
In order to limit our concentration in this product and maintain appropriate returns we implemented crediting rate reductions and reduced commission rates effective in January of this year.
Excluding the products I mentioned you can see a sales increase in the red portion of the bars of just over 30% from a year ago driven by life insurance protection products.
Turning now to sales by channel and starting with the Life Planner channel.
Life Planner sales were $372 million in the current quarter compared to $391 million a year ago.
The variability in the quarterly pattern here comes from the cancer whole life and U.S.
dollar products that I just mentioned.
Sales of these products in the current quarter were $82 million below the year-ago level more than offsetting the $56 million increase in sales of other products in Japan and a $7 million increase in sales outside of Japan.
Slide 23 shows sales in Gibraltar.
Sales from Gibraltar Life were $488 million in the current quarter compared to $459 million a year ago.
Current quarter sales include $110 million from the bank channel yen-based single premium product mainly representing residual sales before the repricing and up $33 million from a year ago.
Sales of cancer whole life and U.S.
dollar whole life and retirement income products were down $81 million from a year ago reflecting the tax law and pricing changes that I mentioned.
Sales of other products in Gibraltar's portfolio were up $77 million from a year ago driven largely by life insurance protection products sold by life consultants and in the bank channel.
Slide 24 shows corporate and other results.
After adjusting for the write-off of bond issue costs in the current quarter the corporate and other loss was reduced by $23 million from a year ago driven by lower expenses.
Now I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks Mark.
Turning to Slide 25 you'll see a summary of some key items under the heading of Financial Strength and Flexibility.
First I'll focus on our insurance companies.
We are continuing to manage these companies to capital levels consistent with what we believe are AA standards.
As of year end Prudential Insurance reported an RBC ratio of 456% with total adjusted capital or TAC of $12.7 billion.
The GM and Verizon transactions did not have a major impact on RBC because the day one gains under statutory accounting largely offset the risk charges associated with that business.
While we don't perform a quarterly bottoms-up RBC calculation we estimate that our RBC ratio is above our 400% target at Prudential Insurance after giving effects to The Hartford transaction and other activities since year end.
Our Japanese insurance companies will soon report solid key margins as of their March 31 fiscal year end.
While the calculations are not yet final we expect Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar Life to report strong solvency margins relative to their targets.
Looking at the overall capital position of the Financial Services business we calculate our on balance sheet capital capacity for Financial Services business by comparing the statutory capital position in Prudential Insurance to a 400% RBC ratio threshold and then add capital capacity held at the parent company and other subsidiaries.
As of year end we estimated that our on balance sheet capital capacity was roughly $3 billion before funding The Hartford Life acquisition.
We'd also estimated that about $1.5 billion to $2 billion of this amount was readily deployable.
Based on results for this quarter including the closing of The Hartford Life acquisition and our first quarterly common stock dividend of $0.40 per share or about $200 million we estimate that our on balance sheet capital capacity has not changed materially since year end and that nearly half of the $3 billion is readily deployable.
Bear in mind that noneconomic GAAP items such as the foreign currency remeasurement don't affect our capital capacity.
There were no share repurchases during the first quarter.
We continue to target about $250 million of additional repurchases under the $1 billion authorization which extends through June 30 of this year.
The additional repurchases would bring the total under our existing authorization to about $400 million.
Turning to the cash position at the parent company.
Cash and short-term investments at the parent company net of outstanding commercial paper amounted to about $6.6 billion as of the end of the first quarter.
The cash in excess of our targeted $1.2 billion liquidity cushion is available for deployment such as to redeem high coupon debt prior of maturity to repay maturing date and to fund operating needs.
Specifically we have called approximately $450 million of senior debt with an average coupon of 6% and we intend to call our $920 million 9% junior subordinated notes in the second quarter.
These actions along with the issuance of $1.2 billion of hybrids during the first quarter are consistent with our plans to reduce leverage.
Now I'll turn it back over to John.
Thanks Rob.
So I'll very briefly summarize with 5 points.
We had a strong first quarter and we're off to a good start for the year.
Earnings improvements were broadly based and were supported by strong sales and flows.
The landmark pension risk transfer transactions we completed in last year's fourth quarter contributed to record quarterly results in our Retirement business.
The Individual Life Insurance business of Hartford that we acquired in January is contributing to results in line with expectations.
And finally International Insurance performed exceptionally well with record earnings and strong sales across multiple distribution channels.
With that we welcome your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question just on share repurchases.
So you still have the $250 million authorization out there that you've intended to complete by the end of 2Q.
Just wondering if that's still the case or has anything changed either from regulatory uncertainty or additional M&amp;A that should lead us to believe that you won't get that done this quarter? Yes this is Mark.
That is still the case.
When we discussed The Hartford acquisition and share repurchases we indicated at that time that we anticipated using $250 million more of our share repurchase authorization in the first half and we still expect to do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on The Hartford Life the transaction there I just want to make sure I have pieces here that you pointed to us.
You paid $600 million for it.
I guess you had the $32 million or so contribution this quarter.
So if we annualized we'd be talking at $100-and-so-odd million of annual earnings and that's before the $90 million of cost saves post integration.
Are those pieces correct? Yes they are.
Don't forget that there was about $9 million of that synergy was in the first quarter.
But those numbers are correct yes.
Just maybe one small qualifier.
Capital in the Individual Insurance business actually went up by $700 million for the quarter and the $600 million was the ceding commission.
There's a little bit of other stuff going on in there but you got the gist of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick one just for John.
I mean you've laid out the '13 to '14 ROE target for this year.
And I think in the past you said you're not going to stop there.
So curious if you still believe you can generate returns in excess of that 13% to 14% or has anything changed that could maybe cap your returns in that 13% to 14% range? Well let me offer a couple of observations one as it relates to the current year and the other relates to going forward.
On the one hand we would caution you about annualizing Q1 results.
On the other hand I'd also would say though that Q1 gives us confidence in our ability to achieve our 13% to 14% objective.
So I think that's how I'd look at it in terms of the current year.
In terms of long term we actually think 13% to 14% is the right and proper place for our line of business with our mix of business and it creates the right balance between strong and differentiated returns and also achieving growth in investing in the business.
So I think that's actually a representative place that we would think as not only attainable but sustainable over the long term.
Our next question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> A question on integration costs as it relates to Gibraltar.
They were pretty light this quarter.
I'm just wondering whether that's a matter of timing or if we should infer that maybe total integration costs are going to ultimately come in below your original expectations? John it's Ed Baird.
It's a matter of timing.
I think it's too soon to conclude just from this quarter that.
If we think at some point that it's going to be even lower than the $450 million we'll let you know.
But it would be premature to signal that.
Remember we ratcheted that down once already.
Research Division</strong> I do I remember.
And maybe just -- maybe a broader a bigger picture question for you on Japan.
So we're seeing now an environment where currency has moved significantly.
Risk assets in Japan are in vogue again.
Monetary policy is aggressive.
Short term this is obviously driven JGB yields down.
I'm just curious if the combination of all of these factors is leading you or management to make any shifts in your strategy or day-to-day operations in what is clearly a very important market for you? In terms of basic strategy no no shift.
As you know our primary focus has always been on death protection and recurring premium.
And in those areas we're not seeing any material movement.
The one area in which you are seeing changes and it's reflected in this quarter is on the more volatile single premium bank channel sales which as you know made major movement in the third and fourth quarter of last year.
We quickly took action as Mark mentioned in terms of reducing both the crediting rates which were already pretty low.
We were at 1.0 during that period of time which I think you'll find was conservative.
And we took it even lower down to 80 bps.
We reduced the commission.
We put in caps et cetera.
So that's why you see the kind of material drop in those sales because they are more reflective of some of the factors you described in particular interest rates.
But the vast majority of our business is unaffected by that.
And again as you know that carries through into our earnings because 80% of our earnings comes from mortality and expenses.
So shifting investments really only affects the Gibraltar book.
And the reason that that book has influenced from investments is simply because that got to reset on the crediting rates.
So the bulk of our earnings continue to come from M&amp;E and it's not being fully affected by this.
So bottom line no change in strategy.
Research Division</strong> And just a real quick one for John or Mark.
Any updated thoughts as it relates to federal regulation? I know the Financial Stability Oversight Council indicated they expect to make decisions on non-bank SIFIs soon.
I was wondering if you have any additional color you might be able to provide based on your discussions and interactions.
This is Mark.
Calendar-wise we're getting a sense that we should be expecting some conclusions from FSOC which remember would result in a round of review and discussion with us and then back to FSOC again.
I would add calendar-wise we're also anticipating developments on the International side as the FSB considers G-SIFIs and as a subset of that considers the globally systemic important insurance companies.
And timing of that may also be within the next few months.
Let me just comment on a couple of things one to reinforce that our engagement with FSOC has been very high-quality.
We've had a chance to respond to the data request but also respond to the data request with substantive context as we view it.
We continue to believe that we don't meet the standard qualitatively to be designated systemically important.
Beyond the process which again has been high-quality the SIFI issue tends to cascade pretty quickly down through capital and solvency standards to the question of scaling capital and ultimately to the question of whether or not we would be inappropriately constrained with respect to the management of capital as a SIFI.
And I want to just make 2 points about this.
One is that we are engaged in discussions with various regulators about appropriate capital standards.
And I think we're being heard with respect to the concerns that Prudential as well as others in the industry are expressing about the inappropriate application of bank-centric capital models to insurance companies.
And we have a chance to talk about why and how we think the approach to capital insolvency should be different reflecting the intrinsic characteristics of insurance relative to banking.
The second point to make is that we're spending a lot of time trying to explain why our GAAP balance sheet is not a very good representation of solvency and risk.
And it kind of comes down to that as a starting point focusing on things like separate accounts and participating policies that the nature of reserving activities and the nature and real guts of product design as it impacts liquidity are very much in front of us as we talk to the regulators.
And we feel like right now like the level of engagement is pretty good.
And the opportunity that we have to have a high-quality discussion around capital and solvency thought of in the context of a company like Prudential I think right now is appropriate and favorable.
Our next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of questions the first one on the GM and the Verizon pension closeout transactions.
It seems like they contributed around $70 million to earnings so I just want to get an idea if that's a normal run rate.
And if you annualize that if it is the normal run rate the tax affected and look at I assume 5% to 6% capital or around 6% or so capital on the assets it seems like the transactions are generating a low teens 10% 11% type ROE.
So I just wanted your views on that? And then secondly on the full service pension business you had pretty strong flow this quarter I think partly because of a large case wins but you've been cautious on the business in the past.
Wondering if you're a little bit more optimistic on trends there or is it just an anomaly that the results are good? Okay.
Jimmy this is Charlie.
I'll take those in order.
First on the PRT front I think your math is generally accurate.
These are closed box.
There's no new premium coming into either GM or Verizon.
So you look at this on that basis and you can annualize plus or minus a little bit.
So I think that's about accurate.
We haven't said the amount of capital we have associated with the business but I think you're reasonably in the ballpark.
And what we've said is that the returns would be consistent with the returns that we expect for the entire business.
So John and Mark have said that this is sort of what we expect a 13% to 14% return this year and we have said that these transactions are consistent with that.
So I think that's what we'd say about the first question.
In terms of the full service business we did have positive flows.
You're right there were some larger cases.
We continue to be very disciplined about the business that we take on and the pricing of that business as we have for the past few years.
We will continue with that discipline so I don't think you're going to see a breakout quarter happen anytime soon.
But I think this is representative of the way the business is hit.
By that I mean that there are I think more cases in the pipeline that we're seeing and some of those are check bids in but some of them aren't.
And we see that we are receiving more RFPs that we think are actually real.
So I think that's good news.
In addition I think we have been investing in this business.
And as a result of that consultants are seeing that and we are the recipient of more RFPs.
So I don't think again you'll see a breakout quarter happen anytime soon but I think this is an indication of the investments we've made and the current market as we see it...
Research Division</strong> Is the standard fee reductions still ongoing or has that abated? I think that's abated.
We don't see -- we still think that it is very competitive out there but there seems to be some pricing stability in the marketplace.
And that's why we have been perhaps a little more successful in garnering some business.
Because as I said we're going to maintain pricing discipline in this market.
And if that means we have negative flows for another quarter or 2 or for whatever period of time we'll sustain that.
But pricing discipline is paramount.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to come back to follow up on John's question in terms of how you're thinking about capital.
Rob you had talked about capital adequacy and capacity having at least half of the $3 billion as being readily deployable.
And I know Mark you're thinking about things along the lines of moving the ball in the direction of sticking with regulatory capital.
But just from a standpoint of trying to be pragmatic about what's likely to happen the G-SIFI requirements are I think looking at consolidated financial statements.
That's clearly what the fed has been using for the banks.
And so just thinking about the reality of consolidated financial statements and the technical problem of using statutory financials because they're not consolidated and they don't look at the holding company isn't it highly likely that that's what you're going to be dealing with whether it's G-SIFI or whether it's nonbank SIFI? And if so have you started to do the work to evaluate capital adequacy along the lines of using GAAP financials and does that -- would that still generally be consistent with what your view of capital adequacy is today? There are a few things buried in there.
You did make one point although not quite directly that's important which is that whether we're designated a SIFI or not there is likely to be some group supervisory regime under which we fall.
And within that context we'll have to think about consolidated capital standards in a way that we don't currently have to think about with respect to regulation.
So part of that point is SIFI or not this methodology question around the solvency approach is going to be important for us.
I think that the effort that we're making comes at this bottoms up in a sense that you described which is focusing on the regulatory financial statements.
And those by the way are intended to measure solvency.
So in a lot of respects because that's the purpose of those financial statements they do a much better job than GAAP does and the extrapolation and the inferences that we can draw from what we see at the regulated insurance company level then moving up to other subsidiaries in the holding company.
But coming at it the other way the issues on the GAAP balance sheet are as I described.
It's not a very good economic portrayal in the line of sight to the capital of the company from various items that fall under this umbrella that we call the GAAP balance sheet varies all over the place.
There are some things where our capital is directly on the hook as principal.
There are other things that are reflected on the GAAP balance sheet that have virtually no line of sight at all to the capital of the company.
And so as we look at it from a GAAP perspective I think the point on our side is to try to understand the reality of the economic risk picture as opposed to the accounting convention that puts it on the books.
So the answer is yes we've looked long and hard at all kinds of dimensions of GAAP and Basel.
We've done a lot of work on understanding how we would interpret the economics of the GAAP balance sheet as it relates to risk and solvency.
And that's the substance of the conversations that we're having with various regulators at this point.
By the way just making a couple of sort of rough ballpark adjustments to the economics of our balance sheet would result in Tier 1 ratio of 15% to 20% so we're very very well-capitalized by most economic regulatory standards.
And that's why we continue to believe that as this is understood and as standards are set appropriately companies like Prudential and others will be determined to be more than adequately capitalized.
I'd add by the way that that the G-SIFI process has a couple of different dimensions: one is targeting either nontraditional insurance activities or noninsurance activities and trying to deal specifically analytically with those 2 aspects of our business lines; the second is a process that would take a considerable amount of time to sort out the identification and quantification of any ultimate so-called SIFI buffers.
In the international arena it's called enhanced loss absorption.
But that process would be long and very interactive from our point of view with the regulators.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful Mark.
So it sounds like even if as you all have interpreted capital adequacy through a Basel lens using GAAP you would still feel comfortable with your $1.5 billion deployable capital at least making the adjustments that you think are appropriate? Yes I think to use Basel language if you appropriately risk-weighted the balance sheet and really understood what was there you would conclude that we're more than fine.
Let me just add one other point though which is that it's not just scaling it isn't just whether there's more or less capital it's the dynamic of how capital changes in a stress test and the particular overlay of long-duration assets and long-duration liabilities for companies like Prudential and others is a big challenge.
There's a lot of volatility in capital measures as Basel would interpret them that's not economic for us.
So keep in mind it isn't just scaling part of it is workability and part of it is the appropriate suitability of measuring solvency and capital in the kind of businesses we're in.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one last follow-up.
Just based on at least some of the articles that have been out there on G-SIFI at least my interpretation of what's been out there and you had referenced it too with some of the nontraditional insurance activities it sounds like the life industry is -- things are probably headed in a more negative direction for variable annuities but things are probably headed in a more favorable direction on the way general account risk-weighted assets are going to be treated.
Does that seem right directionally where things are going right now whether it's G-SIFI or nonbank SIFI? Well I guess I'd be more comfortable with the second part of it which is I think there is a growing acceptance that traditional insurance doesn't present systemic risks.
There's still uncertainty around nontraditional insurance and variable annuities generally would fall into that category.
So that one I'd be more uncertain about.
I'm not quite sure where that's going.
And at the end of the day that's a risk that depends on longevity and investment performance.
And that looks to me like a lot of other risks that we take.
And our next question comes from the line of Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on Tom's question on nonbank SIFI and this whole conversation.
If I hear you talk about it it seems like you're putting forth your arguments you're getting feedback from FSOC.
And I guess my question is is there anybody from the insurance world other than you guys and the other big competitors that are under the same consideration? Is there anybody else from the insurance industry that's got a seat on the table? I'm thinking I don't know if it's actuaries or NAIC regulators or just so there's a little bit of a third-party verification of some of the things that you're saying.
Yes a couple of things.
One is that the industry groups like the ACLI are active.
The NAIC is active.
We're aware of the involvement of consultants.
I'm not sure you would consider them to be aligned one way or another but we're aware of the involvement of consultants and some of these examinations.
And there have been some independent articles written recently by academics that are making the points that we try to make about the nature of our business and its connection to systemic risk.
So I think the body of work on this is piling up above and beyond the things that we're saying and the things that as you mentioned our other large competitors are saying.
So it's accumulating out there.
And there's a fairly consistent theme I believe which is reinforcing the view that as I said we don't meet the quantitative standard to be deemed systemically important.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I guess maybe you used the word soon in terms of designation.
But in terms of the actual writing of the rules and I'm assuming that's going to be subject to commentary as well I mean what is your sense just in terms of when we might get some clarity on that? Is that a 2013 event in your mind or do you think it pushes into '14? I'm less sure about that.
I think this will take some time to pursue a high-quality process to arrive at the right standards and I can't really put a timeline on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my -- I just had a quick follow-up for Ed on the bank channel sales in Japan.
I haven't mapped the bank channel sales against the individual products but my sense is that most of what has been sold through the banks is the single premium whole life product.
And so with you guys deemphasizing that I mean it seems like you've invested a lot in the bank channel with the seconded life planners and all the stuff that you've talked about.
Do you still think that you can generate sales growth through the bank channel beyond -- once we get beyond this hump from the difficult comps in terms of protection life? Because it seems like they continue to want to sell whatever savings-oriented products or retirement-oriented products and that was talking about maybe mutual fund products.
So I'm just wondering how big of a role the bank channels are going to play in your sales going forward.
I can't make a forecast but I can identify for you some of the factors that could support our perspective that there is continued growth opportunity here.
One would be the number of distribution points.
As you know in the last year we have been growing the number of distribution points and also the quality.
What I mean by that is we now have all 4 of the mega banks and 2 of those were added within the last 12 months or so.
In addition just a number of banks meaning the extension beyond the mega banks into the regionals and into the local banks we're now up to over 70 banks.
So even without a change in strategy just the extension of the footprint I think we'll continue growth.
Secondly we will I believe deepen the penetration in these points of distribution.
So for example even now out of the 73 or so banks we're in only 65 of them are even selling anything.
So a number of them are still new and we will gradually develop them.
And then the biggest part is the point you're raising which is the nature of the demand.
And I think it's logical to realize that in the evolution of this  distribution banks are going to concentrate in the early stages more in products that are similar to their depository products so things like single premium things that emphasize the savings component of it.
But we see signs that with some of the more mature more sophisticated banks they realize the benefits to them as well as to their customers are gradually transitioning over into recurring premiums that focus more on the death protection.
I'm particularly optimistic about our ability to tap that segment however big or rapidly it grows because of our unique application of our Life Planners into the banks.
Because we send in not just the product but we send in at this stage over 170 of our Life Planners.
So these people are uniquely equipped in comparison to a bank teller to be able to sell a genuine death protection product as opposed to a traditional bank teller who is naturally going to focus primarily if not exclusively on the crediting rate that's embedded inside the product.
So if you aggregate those 3 i.e.
the growth and the number of distributions secondly the increase penetration and then third this gradual strategic shift it gives me some basis for thinking that there will be steady growth in a more stable aspect.
But you will see continued volatility in the sales that are related to the more of the savings aspect of it and that's the single premium.
And I think our numbers are a good example of that.
In the fourth quarter last year we were distributing through the bank channel over $500 million.
And I think over 80% of that was single premium.
In this quarter it's down to about $200 million and less than 60% of that is single premium.
So there will be volatility and that will mask what I think over time will be a gradual shift and a heavy emphasis on savings to more death protection.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Actually my questions at this point have been all asked and answered so thank you very much.
Next will go to the line of Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So with Japan looking at the impact of the yen can we get an update as to where you stand with hedging.
I think last quarter was 78% hedge for '14 28% hedge for '15.
Can we get an update on those numbers and perhaps some color as to what yen rates you've locked in? Also one of you competitors highlighted that movement in the yen led to escalated lapse activity on the foreign denominated products that provided a meaningful benefit to their earnings.
Hoping you can comment on whether you've seen some dynamics to your results.
And then just lastly on The Hartford Life transaction out of the $90 million of targeted synergies can you provide some color as the timing of those saves? Should it be relatively linear or is it weighted towards any particular year? Okay Nigel it's Rob Falzon.
I think I'll take the first 2 of those I think there were 2 there.
And then I'll turn over to Charlie to talk about The Hartford transaction piece of it.
Let me step back and I think give you a holistic view of this Nigel.
I think it's helpful to put it into the context from an FX standpoint.
If you look at our International earnings only about half of those earnings are yen denominated.
Remember we've got operations in Korea.
We've got other products that we sell out of Japan that are non-yen denominated.
If you ignore hedging right and you look at the yen-dollar forward rate it's got about a 15% to 20% move from where our planned rate is off of 2012 and 2013.
So if we weren't hedged you would see that sort of order of magnitude of decline in our earnings as a result of applying that move in the FX rate against that percentage of our earnings.
But we do hedge.
So first and foremost to your direct question we have our income hedges in place.
We're 100% hedged for the next 4 quarters.
We are -- our policy is to 2/3 hedge the 4 quarters after that and do the 1/3 hedge quarters sort of 9 through 13.
So if you look at our hedging we're 100% for '13 we're 80% for 2014 and then we're around 35% or so for 2015.
And we continue to roll into those hedges on a quarterly basis.
In addition to that we have equity hedges so we look at the economic value of our yen-based equity and we protect that through a series of equity hedges in order to insulate the long-term ROE that we're generating to our shareholders.
And we look at that -- so we look at our FX exposure holistically.
We don't look at it opportunistically.
In other words we don't trade FX.
We'd rather insulate ourselves from the movements up or down in FX.
I think that answered the first 2 questions if I got them correctly.
Research Division</strong> Also just the impact of the movement in the yen in terms of a policyholder behavior.
Did you see some escalated lapse activity on the back of the movement in the yen? Let's ask Ed.
Sure.
Nigel there was some activity there but it did not -- it was limited to the Aussie dollar not to the U.S.
dollar products.
And in our case it was not material to the quarter because it was essentially offset by some one-timers going the other way.
So net-net nothing there that you would need to adjust for in terms of extrapolating.
Nigel this as Charlie.
In terms of the synergies we expect them to feather in over a 3-year period.
It will be slightly back-loaded but there will be some in the first year.
But if you put in your models that they'll be more back-loaded than front-loaded that's probably accurate.
And we have time for one final question that will be from the line of Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I was a little surprised that the balance sheet capital capacity of $3 billion didn't go down from year end given the fact that you added $700 million of life capital you had the ceding commission you've had the dividend.
Can you just help explain the sequential flatness given all those factors? Yes Mark it's Rob again.
It's actually pretty straightforward.
If you look at our earnings before the impact of NPR and FX remeasurement recall that those things are noneconomic and therefore they do not affect our capital capacity.
That essentially entirely offset the things that you were just identifying and we wound up about even with where -- at end of the quarter with where we ended up the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just back to International.
Obviously it was a very strong quarter.
But I mean even after adjusting for favorable mortality investment gains a little bit of seasonality and some of the identified items that you pointed out I guess it was still a fairly good quarter above certainly our own expectations.
Should we be thinking about that level of earnings as a good run rate? Or is there another factors that influenced the quarter that we should be considering? Well it was as you said a very strong quarter pretty much across the board.
Beyond the identified normalizing factors I think Mark has identified those that you might want to consider as you decide what to extrapolate going forward.
I mean on the mortality side there was an above-normal benefit there of about $15 million on the Life Planner about $10 million on the Gibraltar.
There was a seasonality factor that one could estimate at say $20 million for the first quarter.
And then the final one would be the one Mark mentioned on sort of the non-coupon investment at $25 million.
But once you get past that everything else is within the normal range and is benefiting from frankly just steady business growth.
So you take a look inside Gibraltar where even with a drop of 2 000 down to 10 000 in the headcount you see an increase in sales.
And that's because the productivity increased by 25% and the average premium increased by about 9%.
And the reason I highlight that to the spirit of your question of how to look forward is this is exactly the transformation that we accomplished 10 years ago with Kyoei.
And it's the key to what we're looking to do here.
And that is to bring down the headcount but increase the productivity.
So in spite of the 16% drop in the headcount you see a growth in the sales of about 15% with the life consultants.
So that's what gives me some confidence that there is -- as John pointed in his opening comments there's very strong fundamentals here that I think are sustainable.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One final question if I may.
Just on -- Mark you made a comment about how you've limited excess contributions into the VAs and I think you said -- I wondered if you said prior to '11 vintages.
I'm curious actually why you didn't limit them in '11 and '12 and can we infer anything about kind of the comfort level in those vintages of product on the VA side? I'll take one it's Charlie.
We made the decision that prior to the HD series we would limit the drop-ins and it's pretty much as simple as that.
So we went back and looked at the drop-ins looked at the economics of them and decided that that was going to be cut off.
So that was the thought process behind it.
We review that on a consistent basis but that was the decision we made at that time.
And ladies and gentlemen today's conference will be available for replay after 1:30 p.m.
today until midnight May 9.
You may access the AT&amp;T  TeleConference replay system by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 272222.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the second quarter 2013 earnings teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Eric Durant.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Cynthia.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining our call to review second quarter results.
We realize we were relatively late to report this quarter.
We hope the wait was worthwhile.
In order to help you to understand Prudential Financial we will make some forward-looking statements in the following presentation.
It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today.
Additional information regarding factors that could cause such a difference appears in the section titled Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures of our earnings press release for the second quarter of 2013 which can be found on our website at www.investor.prudential.com.
In addition this presentation may include references to adjusted operating income which are earnings per share or EPS or return on equity or ROE which are determined based on adjusted operating income.
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services businesses that excludes certain items.
Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles GAAP and the excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operation.
For a reconciliation of adjusted operating income and the comparable GAAP measure please see our earnings press release on our website.
Additional information relating to the company's financial performance is also located on our website.
Who writes this stuff anyway.
Representing Prudential on today's call are John Strangfeld; CEO; Mark Grier Vice Chairman; Charlie Lowrey Head of Domestic Businesses; Ed Baird Head of International Businesses; Rob Falzon Chief Financial Officer; and Peter Sayre Controller and Principal Accounting Officer.
We'll begin with prepared comments by John Mark and Rob.
We'll be referring to slides that you can get on our website again at www.investor.prudential.com.
After the presentations we'll have -- answer your questions.
John? Thank you Eric.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
The central message today is that we had another strong quarter and we're tracking well to achieve our goals for 2013.
While we clearly benefited from some tailwinds including strong investment results the main driver of our improving results is business fundamentals and each of our divisions is contributing.
Mark and Rob will review the quarter in greater detail in a few minutes but here are a few highlights.
Our Retirement business had record earnings largely on the strength of the 2 large pension risk transfer deals we completed late last year.
We invested for many years to develop our capabilities in pension risk transfer and it's pleasing to see initial tangible benefit from the commitment we made.
Individual Life Insurance also had a strong quarter reflecting a solid contribution from The Hartford Life block we acquired early this year.
Integration is on plan and both integration and expenses and cost savings are tracking with our expectations.
The expanded distribution in the wirehouse and bank channels and the high-quality staff that this deal bring us are exceeding our expectations.
Results in International Insurance continue to reflect solid organic growth as well as increasing expense synergies from our acquisition of Star and Edison.
To be sure challenges remain.
It's clear to us that we will continue to focus on building a company that achieves and sustains superior financial performance especially as measured by return on equity over time and through challenging environments.
We believe our goal of superior performance is supported by a strong foundation that we can build upon.
First our portfolio of businesses is balanced and diverse.
We believe our set of businesses should produce superior returns over time because of the markets they serve along with the high value-added products at the core of our value proposition.
Second our businesses are well led and are leaders in their markets as competitive measures such as sales flows and persistency as well as overall performance will attest.
Third capital management is a part of our value proposition.
We strive for a disciplined balance of capital deployment between a normal course organic growth growth through innovative new products or applications such as pension risk transfer M&amp;A and return to our shareholders.
And finally while it's hard to demonstrate except through results we strongly believe that superior talent and the culture in which they work is and will continue to be the biggest driver of our long-term performance.
With that I'd like to turn it over to Mark.
Thanks John.
Good morning good afternoon good evening depending on where you are.
Thanks for joining us today.
I'll take you through our results for the quarter and then I'll turn it over to Rob Falzon.
I'll start with an overview of our financial results for the quarter using Slide 2.
On a reported basis common stock earnings per share amounted to $2.30 for the second quarter based on after-tax adjusted operating income of the Financial Services businesses.
This compares to EPS of $1.38 a year ago.
After adjusting for market driven and discrete items in both the current quarter and the year-ago quarter EPS was up 31% amounting to $2.24 compared to $1.71.
This increase is largely the result of underlying organic growth in our U.S.
businesses reflecting positive net flows and market appreciation over the past year; the contribution from the pension risk transfer business we put on the books late last year; the performance in the second quarter bolstered by strong investment results and case experience; and more favorable claims experience in Individual Life together with the contribution of the business we acquired from The Hartford in January; and continued growth of our International Insurance business which also benefited from strong investment results in the current quarter.
On a GAAP basis we reported a net loss of $524 million for the current quarter.
This reflects the accounting impact of foreign currency remeasurement of non-yen liabilities on the books of our Japanese insurance companies as well as negative mark-to-market on derivatives we used in duration management driven by rising interest rates.
Book value per share excluding accumulated other comprehensive income or AOCI amounted to $54.18 at the end of the second quarter down $3.68 from year end on a reported basis.
This compares and is affected significantly by the geography mismatch from asset and liability changes driven by foreign currency fluctuations where the impact on non-yen liabilities runs through the income statement while the offsetting gains on the assets are included in AOCI rather than net income.
If you adjust the numbers to remove the impact of this mismatch book value would be $60.14 up $1.90 per share since year end after the payment of 2 quarterly dividends totaling $0.80 per share.
As we've told you we won't consider ourselves to have achieved our ROE goal based on printing a result that is influenced by reducing the denominator due to foreign currency remeasurement.
On this appropriately adjusted basis our reported annualized ROE for the second quarter would be 15.5%.
Slide 3 presents a short list of market driven and discrete items included in our results for the quarter.
In the Annuities business rising interest rates which enhance expected returns on the fixed income portion of account values and reduced the cost of our guaranteed benefits were the main driver for the release of a portion of our reserve for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits and a favorable DAC unlocking.
These updates produced a benefit totaling $0.10 per share.
Charges for integration costs in the quarter totaled $0.02 per share.
And within corporate and other results we recorded a charge of $0.02 per share to write off bond issuance costs on high coupon debt that we redeemed prior to maturity.
In total the items I mentioned had a net favorable impact of $0.06 per share on current quarter results.
Slide 4 shows 2 views of our ROE trend.
Blue bars are as reported based on adjusted operating income and equity excluding AOCI.
This view reflects the variability in results from market driven and discrete items as well as the impact on ROE in the first 2 quarters of this year from reduction of the denominator by foreign currency remeasurement.
In the green bars we've removed the impact of market driven and discrete items and removed the impact of foreign currency remeasurement that affects our book value through net income to provide a trend that more faithfully reflects our business results.
On this basis annualized ROE was just under 15% for the first half of this year compared to about 11% a year ago.
While there is some tailwind in our ROE from strong current quarter investment results in our Retirement and International Insurance businesses as I mentioned to some seasonality that favors the first half in International Insurance we believe that we are well on track to achieve our goals for the year.
Moving to Slide 5.
On a GAAP basis the net loss of $524 million for the Financial Services businesses in the second quarter includes amounts characterized as net realized investment losses of $2.2 billion pretax comprised of the items you see here: foreign currency remeasurement losses primarily represents changes in the value of non-yen liabilities relating to products denominated in U.S.
dollars and other currencies on the books of our Japanese company whose functional currency is the yen.
The weakening of the yen that we saw in the first quarter continued into the second quarter causing us to record a loss in the income statement because it would take more yen to pay off these liabilities.
We consider this noneconomic because the liabilities are matched with assets in the currencies in which they will be settled.
This income statement loss results from the accounting geography mismatch that I have mentioned.
The current quarter pretax loss also includes $953 million from net negative mark-to-market on derivatives mainly related to our investment duration management programs largely driven by rising interest rates.
Product-related embedded derivatives and hedging activities had a net negative impact of $124 million in the quarter.
Impairments and credit losses on investments were benign in this quarter.
The positive contribution you see for other items of $441 million essentially represents net gains from general portfolio activities driven largely by currency-related gains on sales of non-yen denominated bonds in our Japanese insurance operations.
Moving to our business results and Slide 6.
I'll start with our U.S.
Retirement Solutions and Investment Management businesses.
Reported results are shown on Slide 6 along with the adjustments I would make for market driven and discrete items to get a view of underlying performance relative to a year ago.
Slide 7 highlights the Annuity business.
After adjusting for reserve true-ups and unlockings which were mainly driven by rising interest rates in the current quarter and decline in the equity markets a year ago annuity results were $325 million for the quarter an increase of $94 million from a year ago.
Slide 8 relates baseline earnings to account values.
Stripping out the impact of unlockings and other one-off items we've disclosed as we've done here in the green bars the trend of earnings for the Annuities business reflects our account value growth.
Account values amounted to $141 billion at the end of the quarter up 14% from a year ago.
The increase was driven by market appreciation together with $8 million of net flows over the past year and produced a 19% increase in policy charges and fees.
Results in the Annuity business also benefited from a reduced drag from distribution and other costs which rose less rapidly than revenues.
As Slide 9 shows our gross Annuity sales for the quarter were $2.5 billion down from $5.4 billion a year ago.
The lower level of current quarter sales reflects actions we've taken to adapt our products to the current environment.
As we discussed in our Investor Day in June we've responded to market changes by pulling a number of levers to maintain appropriate return prospects and improve our risk profile.
In February of this year we introduced our current living benefit feature called HDI 2.1.
The biggest changes in HDI 2.1 brought down some of the value of the guarantee by adjusting payout rates at various age bands.
For example to get a 5% annual income payout the client must be aged 70 when payouts commence as compared to age 65 in the previous version of the product.
We also eliminated the guaranteed doubling of the protected withdrawal value after 12 years.
While leaving the rider fees unchanged at 100 basis points for individual contracts and 110 basis points for spousal contracts we also reduced the commission rates that we pay in February to maintain an appropriate balance between the value proposition to customers and compensation to our distribution partners.
We implemented the commission change in a transparent manner working with our broker-dealer partners and we've maintained strong distribution relationships.
Over the past year we've also withdrawn our X shares or bonus product and suspended acceptance of subsequent premiums on generations of products offered before 2011.
Additionally in late July we implemented a cap on subsequent purchase payments on the HDI products we offered prior to last August.
We believe that our product continues to offer a solid value proposition in an attractive market and we regard our sales level as an outcome rather than a target.
Slide 10 highlights the Retirement business.
Retirement business reported record-high adjusted operating income of $279 million for the current quarter.
This compares to $147 million a year ago or $156 million if I add back $9 million of costs we incurred then to convert our bank to a trust-only status.
Headlines of the improvement in earnings are greater contributions from net investment results and case experience by group annuity and similar contracts.
Each case driven largely by the 2 major pension risk transfer transactions we closed late last year.
Current quarter results benefited by $95 million from a greater contribution from net investment results.
This includes about $35 million of returns that we would consider above our average expectations on non-coupon asset classes.
In addition case experience was $28 million more favorable than the current quarter.
About half of this increase came from a true-up of reserves resulting in reserve releases as we moved the administration of a block -- of the pension risk transfer business to our own platform.
Benefit from higher fees driven by account value growth was essentially offset by higher expenses as we continue to invest in this business.
Slide 11 shows Retirement sales and account values.
The top graph on Slide 11 shows the total Retirement gross deposits and sales were $8.1 billion for the quarter compared to $12.8 billion a year ago.
Stand-alone institutional gross sales amounted to $4.4 billion in the current quarter compared to $8.5 billion a year ago.
Current quarter sales included $3.5 billion of stable value wrap products sold to plan sponsors while the year-ago quarter included $8 billion of those sales reflecting the exit of a major provider of these products from the market and reflecting several large case wins.
Full service gross deposits and sales were $3.7 billion for the quarter down from $4.4 billion a year ago which included a major case win of about $850 million.
Net flows remained in the positive column with strong retention of existing cases.
We believe that our ongoing investment in client service capabilities is contributing to our persistency and will enhance our field of plan sponsors as we maintain pricing discipline in the highly competitive mid to large case market which is our major focus.
Referring now to the account values graph on Slide 11.
Total retirement net flows for the current quarter amounted to $2 billion and account values surpassed the $300 billion milestone amounting to $301.8 billion at the end of the quarter up $57 billion from a year ago and including about $33 billion from the pension risk transfer transactions late last year.
Next Slide 12 highlights the Asset Management business.
The Asset Management business reported adjusted operating income of $168 million for the current quarter.
This compares to $127 million a year ago after adjusting for an impairment charge for an increase of $41 million.
The increase came essentially from higher asset management fees driven by growth in assets under management net of expenses.
The segment's assets under management amounted to $826 billion at the end of the quarter up by 10% from a year ago.
On Slide 13 you see the results of our U.S.
Individual Life and Group Insurance businesses showing the adjustment for The Hartford integration costs.
Slide 14 highlights the Individual Life business.
After adjusting for integration costs Individual Life reported earnings of $152 million for the current quarter up $91 million from a year ago.
The in-force block of business we acquired from The Hartford contributed about $42 million this quarter.
The business integration is well on track and our results reflect initial realization of cost synergies in line with our expectations.
The remainder of the increase in the Individual Life earnings reflect the improved mortality experience in our Prudential business which was about $20 million more favorable than our average expectations in the current quarter.
This contrasts a mortality experience about $50 million less favorable than average expectations a year ago.
The year-ago quarter was our most adverse variance from expected levels since late 2003.
The benefit from improved mortality on the Prudential business was partly offset by higher distribution costs in the current quarter reflecting the expansion of our third-party distribution system with The Hartford acquisition as well as higher sales in the current quarter.
Shown on Slide 15 Individual Life sales based on annualized new business premiums amounted to $184 million for the current quarter including $58 million from the third-party distribution partners that came to us with The Hartford acquisition.
This compares to total sales of $91 million a year ago.
The current quarter sales increase was mainly driven by our universal life products and reflects our strong competitive position as some key competitors have recently raised rates or withdrawn products.
In addition The Hartford strength in banks and wirehouses has significantly enhanced our distribution through financial institutions which amounted to $60 million in the current quarter up by about $40 million from a year ago.
Guaranteed universal life products accounted for just over half of our current quarter sales.
We've taken actions to limit concentration in these products and to maintain appropriate returns including a series of price increases most recently in May and July of this year.
In addition in May we implemented a cap on the amount of premium that a client can invest when purchasing a contract.
Because of the time span of the application and underwriting process typically 60 to 90 days we would expect these actions to have an increasing impact on our reported sales going forward.
Turning to the next slide highlighting Group Insurance.
Group Insurance business reported adjusted operating income of $22 million in the current quarter compared to $33 million a year ago.
The decrease reflected less favorable group underwriting results which more than offset improved claims experience in Group Disability.
Slide 17 presents earnings and benefit ratio trends in our group business.
Fluctuations in claims experience and expenses as well as seasonality have affected the pattern of Group Insurance results.
Group Life accounts for more than 80% of our Group Insurance premiums.
And its results tend to be seasonally weakest in the first quarter due to a higher concentration of claims.
While the second quarter claims ratio was within an expected band results were off from a relatively strong year-ago quarter.
In Group Disability we are more than 1 year into what we expect to be a 3-year process of bringing down the benefits -- of bringing the benefits ratio down to an acceptable range.
We've repriced or allowed to lapse about 1/3 of the book.
In addition we've enhanced our claims management capabilities.
We are beginning to see some progress with increased claims terminations in the current quarter contributing to the improvement of more than 4 percentage points in the benefits ratio from a year ago.
I will move now to the International Insurance division starting with Slide 18.
Slide 18 shows the results of our International Insurance business adjusting for integration costs.
Slide 19 highlights the Life Planner business.
The Life Planner business reported adjusted operating income of $368 million for the quarter.
This compares to $374 million a year ago.
Higher expenses and less favorable mortality experience in the current quarter more than offset the contributions of continued business growth and more favorable foreign currency translation.
Higher expense level reflected factors including current quarter technology costs in Japan which are largely related to product development guaranteed fund recovery in the year-ago quarter and higher employee benefit costs in our Korean operation.
Current quarter mortality experience was about $10 million less favorable than average expectations compared to experience essentially in line with expectations a year ago.
The contribution of business growth in comparing the year-ago quarter was dampened somewhat by the benefit last year from accelerated purchases of our cancer whole life product in anticipation of a tax law change in Japan and strong sales of our U.S.
dollar retirement income and whole life products in advance of price increases.
Foreign currency exchange rates which reflect our hedging of yen income at JPY 80 this year versus JPY 85 last year contributed a benefit of $13 million to earnings in comparison to a year ago.
Turning to Slide 20 highlighting Gibraltar Life.
After adjusting for integration costs Gibraltar Life reported earnings of $488 million for the current quarter up $146 million from a year ago.
The current quarter benefited from a contribution from investment results about $80 million greater than a year ago.
About half of this increase came from non-coupon investments reflecting strong performance in Japanese real estate and equities.
About $25 million of the increase in Gibraltar's earnings come from gains on an elevated level of surrenders of non-yen products driven by currency exchange rates partly offset by a less favorable mortality experience in the current quarter.
Current quarter results also reflected about $55 million of cost savings achieved thus far from the Star/Edison business integration compared to about $40 million in the year-ago quarter.
The remainder of the increase came from continued business growth and an $11 million benefit in the comparison from foreign currency exchange rates.
Slide 21 shows total International Insurance sales.
International Insurance sales on a constant dollar basis were $850 million for the current quarter compared to $1.2 billion a year ago.
Market developments along with re-pricings and other actions we've taken have produced some volatility in the quarterly pattern of sales results.
Seasonality has an impact on our sales trend as well with a benefit in the first half of the year from accelerated sales efforts toward the end of the fiscal year in Japan on March 31 which benefits first quarter results for our Life Planner business and benefits second quarter results for Gibraltar.
As most of our business in Japan is traditional insurance products where the pattern of profits is tied to premiums this also tends to make first half earnings seasonally stronger than the second half in both Prudential of Japan and in Gibraltar.
In the first and second quarters of last year we experienced sales surges in Japan from our cancer whole life product in anticipation of a tax law change and we experienced accelerated purchases of our U.S.
dollar retirement income and whole life products in advance of price increases we implemented as I mentioned.
Gibraltar sales of yen-based single premium whole life products in the bank channel also began to accelerate in the second quarter of last year as competitors limited sales of products that were popular in that market with the greatest volume of sales taking place in the third and fourth quarters of 2012.
In order to limit our concentration in this product and maintain appropriate returns we implemented crediting rate reductions and reduced commissions effective January 1 of this year and we will be discontinuing sales in September.
Excluding the products I just mentioned you can see a sales increase in the red portion of the bars of $132 million for the current quarter compared to a year ago.
Looking back over 2 years to the second quarter of 2011 the comparison of the same baseline of products shows an average annual increase of 8%.
Slides 22 and 23 break down sales by business and product.
Slide 22 presents Life Planner sales.
Life Planner sales were $285 million in the current quarter compared to $402 million a year ago.
Sales of cancer whole life and the U.S.
dollar products I just mentioned were $47 million in the current quarter or $130 million below the year-ago level.
The decline in sales of these products more than offset a $24 million increase in sales of other products by our Life Planners in Japan.
Sales outside of Japan were down $11 million from a year ago mainly reflecting lower sales in Korea.
Taking a look at the red portions of the bars for the first and second quarters of each year which exclude the sales volatility from cancer whole life and the repriced U.S.
dollar products you can see the seasonality-driven decline from the first quarter to the second quarter in each of the last 3 years as we would expect.
Slide 23 presents Gibraltar Life sales.
Sales from Gibraltar Life were $565 million in the current quarter compared to $769 million a year ago.
Sales of cancer whole life and U.S.
dollar whole life and retirement income products were down by $275 million from a year ago reflecting the tax law and pricing changes that I have discussed.
Current quarter sales include $64 million from the yen-based single premium product in the bank channel down $48 million from a year ago.
Sales of other products in Gibraltar's portfolio totaled $389 million up $119 million from a year ago with the increase driven largely by life insurance protection products including yen-based recurring premium whole life and term insurance.
Slide 24 shows the results for corporate and other.
After adjusting for the write-off of bond issue costs in the current quarter corporate and other loss was $331 million in line with the average of the past 4 quarters but up $106 million from a year ago.
The increased loss came from higher expenses and greater net interest costs which reflect our pre-funding of several refinancings.
Now I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks Mark.
I'd like to give you an update on some key items under the heading of Financial Strength and Flexibility and they're summarized beginning on page -- on Slide 25.
First focusing on our insurance companies.
We continue to manage these companies to levels consistent with what we believe are AA standards.
Prudential Insurance we managed to a 400% RBC ratio which we believe gives us some cushion against our AA objective.
We began the year with a 456% RBC ratio.
While we don't perform a quarterly bottoms up RBC calculation we estimate that our RBC ratio remains above our 400% target at Prudential Insurance after giving effects to The Hartford transactions and other activities in the first half of the year.
In Japan Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar Life reported solid solvency margin ratios of 749% and 896% respectively as of March 31 their fiscal year end.
These reported solid key margins are strong in relation to our targets.
Looking at the overall capital position for the Financial Services businesses as summarized on Slide 25.
We calculate our on balance sheet capital capacity by comparing the statutory capital position of Prudential Insurance to our 400% RBC ratio target and then add capital capacity held at the parent company and other subsidiaries.
As of year end we estimated that our on balance sheet capital capacity was roughly $3 billion before the funding of Hartford Life acquisition which closed in early January.
We also estimated that about $1.5 billion to $2 billion of this amount was readily deployable.
During the first half of this year we funded The Hartford acquisition paid 2 quarterly common stock dividends of $0.40 each for a total of about $400 million and repurchased $250 million of our common stock totaling roughly $1.3 billion of capital redeployment and returns of capital.
The net of these uses of capital and the capital generated by our businesses in excess of their organic growth needs left us with available on balance sheet capital capacity of about $2.5 billion to $3 billion at June 30 including about $1 billion that we would consider readily deployable.
Our $250 million of share repurchases which we executed during the second quarter brought our total repurchases under the authorization that ended on June 30 of this year to $400 million as we had projected.
As you know we announced a new $1 billion repurchase authorization in June which extends through June 30 of next year.
Turning to the cash position of the parent company.
Cash and short-term investments net of outstanding commercial paper amounted to about $4 billion as of the end of the second quarter.
This reflects our [indiscernible] during the quarter of approximately $450 million of senior debt with an average coupon of about 6% and $920 million of 9% junior subordinated notes.
The cash in excess of our targeted $1.3 billion liquidity cushion is available to repay maturing debt fund operating needs or redeploy over time.
Now I'll turn it back over to John.
Okay.
Thank you Mark and Rob.
And that concludes our prepared comments and we'd like to open it up to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> First question on Gibraltar.
You mentioned a few factors that benefit earnings this quarter.
But even if I normalize for the good alternative performance the surrender fees as well as seasonality the results still seem quite strong.
Are there any other factors we should think about going forward maybe expense timing or anything like that that could affect Gibraltar going forward? Or if I adjust for those things is that a good run rate to think about? I thank you fairly point out that a lot of things went in the right direction for Gibraltar this quarter.
You're right.
On the investment side it was higher than we would normally expect certainly not all of it but a portion of it was higher than I think you would want to assume is going to continue going forward.
There is a certain seasonality factor as a result of the annual premium mode.
Let me explain that.
On annual premiums we book the earnings consistent with the time in which we booked the premium.
On POJ that's in the first quarter.
But in Gibraltar because they lag by a quarter that shows up primarily in the second quarter.
And then in the third side there -- actually on the benefit side was a little better than normal not so much because of mortality but because there were surrenders that took place primarily around the Aussie dollar which netted against the mortality produced a little better benefit ratio than would be normally assumed.
So if you put the 3 together you're right you need to discount to some degree.
But even after you've done that there is a very strong performance result there one being the factor that Mark highlighted which is that consistent with the original plan.
The costs have come down steadily.
We've now expensed about 80% of the $400 million ballpark that we had originally estimated for the expenses and that's come down nicely.
And similarly we're getting increased gains on the expense savings.
So the combination of those 2 produced about a $50 million swing over the quarter.
And as Mark pointed out those are stable in contrast to the one-timers that you just covered.
So net-net very strong but I wouldn't book the whole thing on a going-forward basis.
LLC</strong> If I take into consideration all the factors that you mentioned it still seems like the earnings were running above $400 million.
Is that a fair assessment? I'm not sure I'd want to stick a number on it.
I would more or less stick with what I just said in terms of how you might want to adjust it.
LLC</strong> And then I have one on non-bank SIFI.
It seems like there's been some increased discussion lately including some comments from Ben Bernanke that language in the Collins Amendment may limit the Feds ability to tailor capital rules to insurance companies and away from a bank methodology.
So I'd just appreciate any thoughts or perspective you might have on that issue.
This is Mark.
I guess the main thought is that that's an issue that's out there.
It's something that does come up when we talk about the consideration of what we consider to be appropriate capital and solvency regimes for an insurance company.
And at this point I would say it's just something that we have to work through.
LLC</strong> I know there's a proposed bill out there to modify that.
Do you see that gaining -- have you seen that gaining any traction? Well there are -- yes there is legislation out there and there also are different opinions about the specific legal interpretation.
The more general issue is a reluctance to reopen Dodd-Frank at all and that's kind of the hurdle that we'd have to get over to start looking at changes.
And I would have to say the outlook for that is highly uncertain.
Our next question comes from the line of Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow-up on Ryan's question question on non-bank SIFI.
So I guess since the last time we spoke you were designated you have decided to contest.
So I was just wondering if you can kind of take us through the process of what actually happens as you contest the designation.
You had given us in the past I think some color around stage 1 stage 2 stage 3.
So what actually happens in this contestation process? Well I guess the short answer is that I can't give you a lot more color around the process.
We are in the works.
Timing-wise probably somewhere around 2 months from late July we will have a final determination.
As you mentioned we have been working on our concerns about the preliminary designation but I can't add a lot more than that in terms of discussion of the process.
I would reiterate that we don't believe that we satisfy the quantitative criteria to be a SIFI as is contemplated in Dodd-Frank and we continue to make that case.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I get that.
I mean I guess I'm trying to figure out if there's a difference between this process and the whole process going through Stage 1 Stage 2 and Stage 3.
Clearly in those stages you presented your arguments and the FSOC decided to make its own decision.
So I'm trying to figure out what's different about this next process that we go through? Well again without getting into a lot of detail we did have a specific preliminary designation to discuss in the context of the last stage of the process so that would have been different.
But otherwise I would add again we've had high-quality discussions around the nature of our business models and the issues that both we and the council think are important.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just moving to the capital position.
If I go back to -- not the beginning of the year but maybe the first quarter call I think you talked about $1.5 billion of sort of redeployable capital.
I think in the quarter you did the $250 million of buyback the roughly $200 million of dividend some capital debt reduction.
So that probably adds up to something like $575 million.
And then you said that the redeployable right now is $1 billion.
So I'm just trying to figure out what was the actual capital generation in the quarter? Because if I just kind of run the math it doesn't seem like it was a very sizable number.
Suneet it's Rob.
First the math that you did I think all adds up.
As we looked at the overall capital capacity on balance sheet I would characterize it as not having changed materially.
What change there was was more of a timing issue than an absolute issue.
What did change is the composition of that capital and the way that you articulated it.
We used our redeployable capital to pay dividends buyback stock and delever and that brought the redeployable component down.
With regard to the overall pie the total capacity remain relatively unchanged as a result of earnings coming in funding our business growth and then the items that you just mentioned.
Research Division</strong> So the strain I guess is what -- is the piece that I'm missing in here the strain from business growth? Yes.
If you look at our-- start with our earnings adjusted for things like NPR and FX remeasurement which are noneconomic you took out those items and you took out financing the growth of our business you would find that that leaves us with a total capacity that's relatively unchanged.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last one on this topic.
If I think about the total capital capacity I guess the $2.5 billion to $3 billion and I back out the redeployable I'd get $1.5 billion to $2 billion of excess capital capacity that's not redeployable.
And I just like to get a sense of what that is because I thought some of that stuff was going to get chewed up by the PRT deals as well as The Hartford Life deal.
But it seems like that number is still pretty sizable in terms of excess capital capacity that cannot be redeployed.
So any detail on that would be helpful.
Yes so couple of thoughts on that.
First recognize that that's a number that cycles through during the course of the year.
So we do as you noted and have used the non-monetizable capital and can absorb risk for writing new business.
So we can also absorb risk if things go bump in the night.
So while it's non-monetizable it doesn't mean it's not usable.
It means that there are different ways in which it can get applied.
And what happens in any given year is that things like DTAs burn off and then get added as a result of activities during the course of the year.
So when we define non-monetizable what we mean by that is that in the course of the next 12 months that's the portion of our capital capacity that exists down in operating subsidiaries that we don't see coming up to the holding company in a way that it would allow us to immediately redeploy it.
And so that's an ongoing process during the course of any given year.
We'll be taking capital out of the subsidiaries but they'll be building capital back up again.
And as a result of that the non-monetizable piece there'll be a component of it.
I don't think you'll ever see it go away although it's reduced over time as a result of writing new business and doing things like pension risk transfer.
Suneet it's Mark.
Maybe just to emphasize one point that Rob made.
The amount of DTA that is eligible that counts as an asset for statutory purposes will roll over.
So as some of that is monetized more we'll meet the test and be accepted as an admitted asset.
So there's a little dynamic there that the first part of what you said is right it does get chewed up.
But the second part is it gets replaced.
Our next question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> So there's a lot going on in the world today.
But a couple of the factors seem to be pretty favorable for potentially driving further activity in the pension markets.
Higher rates should all by itself be helping to reduce pension funding gaps and obviously strong markets should be helping on the asset side.
I just wonder if you can help us understand based on your dialogue with potential customers how much has the macro environment's improving changed the potential outlook I'm assuming for the better for that activity? John it's Charlie.
I think it's fair to say we are continuing to have very robust conversations with many different companies.
And your observation is in fact correct that as interest rates go up that obviously helps with the valuation of their liabilities.
It can help with closing the funding gap which is a good thing.
Another dynamic that's occurring as well which is that as interest rates go up they will hit certain tripwires in that they will invest more in bonds which then creates a portfolio which is better for pension risk transfer.
So I think the environment looks promising.
And as we've said it's a very lumpy business.
These transactions will occur when they occur and that's dependent upon a whole a variety of things including board approvals and funding rates and all sorts of things.
We're having a great many conversations right now with different companies and we'll see what happens.
Research Division</strong> Would you -- Charlie not to put you on the spot but I'll try.
Whether it's true or just an industry comment I'm just wondering if you'd put odds on a relatively large transaction getting done before the end of this year? I'm not asking you to comment on whether PRU would be a winner or not but odds better than 50-50 that a large deal would get done or something different.
Well I'll talk for a moment without answering the question how's that? And that is that I think these deals have long lead times and we are in a variety of conversations.
But there are long lead times and I can't comment about the rest of the industry.
But they're lumpy and they'll occur when they occur.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
I thought I'd try.
Then a quick one for either Mark or Rob.
You guys have been doing a lot on the balance sheet related to your debt and preferreds and hybrids and junior subordinated a lot of activity there.
I know some of the rating agencies view some of these forms of financing slightly differently from debt to capital how much equity credit they get et cetera.
If you look at the more onerous of those agencies where do you stand currently from a debt-to-capital perspective and does it imply any capacity? It's Rob.
So the way we look at it internally is consistent with what we think of the lower -- the major rate rating agencies.
Moody's gives us only a 25% equity credit from the hybrids.
We get full equity credit for the hybrids from Standard &amp; Poor's by way of contrast on the other extreme.
So when we report our financial ratio to you it is only giving ourselves the benefit of that 25% allocation to equity and that's the 24.7% financial ratio that we published for you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First I had a question on Slide 21.
I just want to better understand what the message and the takeaway is from this which shows the international sales trend.
So the red bar on the bottom shows that clearly there's a nice upward trajectory of sales of other products which I guess would be your traditional products that you sold historically.
Should I be thinking about the other bars the U.S.
dollar whole life the cancer whole life and the yen-based bank being the more asset-intensive products that are now going to continue to diminish? Is that a fair characterization or a way to think about those? Yes.
Let me answer your question a little bit differently than the way you posed it if you don't mind Tom.
What we're trying to communicate here are a couple of things.
First before you even get into the colors of the bar if you just look at the size of the bar the first point we're trying to make is that what happened in the second quarter of '12 was unprecedented.
And so the drop that we're looking at here is driven by 2 things that happened during that quarter which will not likely recur.
So it had to do with specifically the Japan businesses.
So during that quarter we saw a 40% increase in Gibraltar sales and an 80% increase in POJ sales.
So we knew that that was not a new stable platform of plateau from which we could further build particularly because we understood why it happened.
It was driven as Mark pointed out in his opening comments by the tax law changes on the cancer whole life product and on the interest rate changes on the dollar-denominated retirement and other dollar products.
And you're right those products are related more to capital market activity and tax treatment than to the more traditional Death Protection.
So when those changes took place it was a spike which will not reoccur.
But the other reason for showing as many quarters is to give you the opportunity to observe that if you completely ignore that quarter and you look at this quarter compared to the quarter and the prior year i.e.
2011 you'll see double-digit growth.
And the reason for that is because there continues to be underneath these 2 specific changes very steady organic growth.
And that's a continuation of what has been going on for a long time.
In fact coming into this quarter we had 15 quarters of consecutive year-over-year increases in sales.
So it was inevitable that there would come a break and I think it was predictable that it would come in this quarter because of that spike that occurred.
So I don't think there's much more of a message that we're trying to give here than that.
It really was limited to that quarter.
I don't think you'll see that kind of volatility again unless there is some external or internal change comparable to what happened at that time.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
But would you say those other -- those 3 products on the top bars would you expect those to continue to diminish or -- I just want to get a better sense for where...
No I don't think they will continue to diminish John (sic) [Tom].
The reason I say it is it had more -- it will diminish depending on what you use as your baseline.
Will it will diminish relative to what it was in the second quarter of '12? Yes maybe.
But will it diminish relative to what it was in the quarters other than that? Not necessarily.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then is it fair to say though -- because then just based on these bars you took a bit of a step back in terms of your traditional products in 2012 probably because you were emphasizing all these other products.
And now that seems to have recovered.
How would you describe the competitive landscape for your traditional Death Protection products now? Is it -- based on the sales this quarter it would appear to be a lot better.
But can you shed some light on that? Sure.
Yes you make 2 key points there John.
One is you're absolutely right the more traditional Death Protection products dropped relatively speaking during that second quarter of '12 when more of the platform was consumed by the focus on the tax driven and interest rate driven activity.
But now that that has returned more to normal you're right these products have now returned to their more historical organic growth rates.
Your second point regarding competition because our primary focus is through our captive agency distribution and because the product focus is primarily on Death Protection and needs-based analysis we tend to be less sensitive to the movement of competitors.
That's less true of course on the bank channel which we've discussed previously.
But that constitutes less particularly in this quarter of our productivity.
So in general I would not say that there's been any major movement on the competition that's affecting us in spite of changes you have seen in prices driven by the changes in the standard reserving rate which has brought about a broader dispersion of prices.
But that's not materially affecting our performance because of our focus on Death Protection and our distribution focus primarily in proprietary distribution.
And next we'll go to the line of Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Just as we look at Slide 25 at your solvency margin ratio interest rates have risen since March 31.
I was wondering if you could describe what the impact to your SMR will be and maybe some characteristics of your investment portfolio and how you characterize or classify your investments.
Sure.
You're exactly right.
The second part of your question having to do with the composition of the portfolio is what influences the sensitivity on the SMR so let me talk you through that.
We have as I believe most of you are aware an extremely conservative portfolio far more so than most of the Japan companies either domestic or foreign-owned.
As a result we have the luxury of being able to define the vast majority about 70% of our general account portfolio as either hold to maturity or hold for reserve.
Consequently that does not need to be mark-to-market.
Only about 20% of our portfolio is assets for sale which is a lot less than I think you'll find in most companies.
Furthermore what we have inside that category tends to be a currency matched; and b short-term duration.
So those 3 facts number one a small part of our portfolio; number two currency matched; and number three short duration means that we're relatively insensitive to movement here in terms of the SMR.
And then of course I'd just take the opportunity to remind you that as Mark pointed out our SMRs are very high compared to really what's expected I think of a AA company or what's going on with the competition.
So we're in a position that even if there is a relative diminution of it it will still leave us in a very strong position.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick follow-up on Gibraltar.
How much longer do you expect the elevated level of policy surrenders to continue? That's a good question.
One we have been watching ourselves because this is relatively unprecedented.
It's linked primarily to the exchange rate and it's focused mostly on the Aussie dollar.
That exchange rate peaked in April.
And when we've looked at the monthly numbers it would suggested that as the yen have strengthened versus of the Aussie dollar the surrender rate has dropped accordingly.
That's what we can observe that you cannot from a quarterly number when we look at the monthly numbers which leads me to believe that if it stays at the current level on the exchange rate that you'll see a surrender rate that's below what we witnessed in the second quarter.
But again going forward the primary point is it will be linked to and largely driven by the exchange rate.
Our next question comes from the line of Joanne Smith with Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but I just wanted to go back to the kind of normalized earnings.
If you look at maybe 209 210 [ph] for the quarter given all of the moving parts that we saw what would you believe to be the sustainable factors during the quarter that increased the run rate of this kind of normalized earnings figure? Is it just the large pension risk transfer transactions The Hartford Life acquisition and the benefits of integration at Star and Edison? Or is it more that I might be missing there? Joanne this is John.
Let me offer a couple of observations about that.
What you're really seeing here is the cumulative effect of the building blocks that we've been talking about really for the last 3 years.
So whether that's the strong organic performance of our existing business which you can see manifested in the fundamentals or whether it's the outsized organic that you mentioned like pension risk transfers or whether it's the M&amp;A in the case of Star/Edison which has really come to fruition or Hartford which is in its early but encouraging phases and you couple that with active capital management and expense management as well and the quality and continuity of leadership all those things are contributing to this.
So it's these same elements that gave us confidence 3 years ago to aspire to a 13% to 14% ROE are the things that are coming to fruition today and are manifested in our results.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then when I look at kind of the normalized ROE John I would say you're kind of at or above the target level for 2013.
How should we think about that? I mean you're obviously not going to give us an update on your targets.
But do you think that the 14% to 14.5% or I think x everything out you came up with 14.9% is that something that's sustainable? I mean there's a lot of obviously favorable market tailwinds that are helping some of these numbers but just kind of your view on that.
Okay.
A couple of observations on that as well.
We believe we're on a good track towards the 2 aspects of our goal: one is achieving that range; and the second is doing it in a way that's sustainable over time.
As you point out well firstly 2 quarters does not a year make.
And then secondly there are certain elements in the first half while they're very real they tend to fluctuate.
And the things that fluctuate at the moment are generally fluctuating in a positive direction like the example of the investment income piece that you -- that was mentioned earlier.
So when we're talking about achieving and sustaining a 13% to 14% ROE we're truly talking about long term and without a reliance upon those fluctuating elements to drive us into that space.
And I think that's the extent of what we'd say.
We're not going to offer anymore specificity around guidance around ROE et cetera et cetera because that's not something we would normally do during the course of the year.
But I think that's the way we would think about it in terms of both achieving getting into that zip code and doing it in a way that's sustainable over time and through different phases and different markets.
And we have time for one final question that will be from the line of Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I just have a couple of big picture questions I guess in terms of how you're thinking about the U.S.
business.
And clearly you've been raising prices in Annuities Individual Life and group so sales trends have been moderating.
In Retirement you've seen steady growth but it's lumpy.
So I guess first question is should we think of the near-term strategy as primarily being focused on maintaining and boosting margins and generating capital as opposed to growth? And then secondly where do you see the attractive growth opportunities in the market currently? Sure.
I guess I'd answer the first part of that question by saying I don't think that increasing margins or maintaining an appropriate level of profitability is mutually exclusive from growth.
So if you look at our businesses I think we are concentrating on making sure that we create shareholder value by selling product with an appropriate risk-adjusted return.
And that hopefully will fall to the bottom line and that will create AOI growth over time.
So it might not be necessarily top line growth but it certainly can be bottom line growth.
And I think you see that in a number of the businesses.
And in terms of growth as we've said just in general as we said in Investor Day we think there are a whole series of macro trends in the U.S.
that play right into our strengths as an insurance company as an asset management company as a retirement company.
And you look at the -- whether it's the 10 000 baby boomers that are retiring a day or the need for lifetime income these are all trends that we have products for or are working on that really fall into or play into our strengths over time.
So we're very excited about the macro trends in the industry.
But the one thing we are absolutely focused on is the profitability of the products we have and that sales -- as Eric and Mark and others have said sales are going to be really result of maintaining a price discipline in all our product lines going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And just I guess one follow-up.
I mean as sales levels come down I would expect kind of the drag from new business on capital would be decreased a little bit.
Does that have a material impact on the amount of capital you generate in the business? Erik it's Rob Falzon.
Yes I would say that obviously we have to consume capital in order to finance business growth as we've talked about to the extent -- and I don't mean to imply that sales are coming down that was your hypothesis coming into it but to the extent that sales moderate relative to an installed book it becomes less capital intensive for us in order to finance that growth.
Research Division</strong> Any comments on kind of order of magnitude or just do you look at that as more of a general rule? I would look at that as a general rule.
I think we've provided you in the past benchmarks for the amount of capital that comes out of our operating subsidiaries on average over a very long period of time and works its up way to the holding company.
I think on average that's probably a good rule of thumb to sustain.
Just remember that it does vary a lot by product.
And ladies and gentlemen today's conference call will be available for replay after 1:30 p.m.
today until midnight August 15.
You may access the AT&amp;T TeleConference replay system by dialing (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 272223.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
And enter the access code of 272223.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the third quarter 2013 earnings teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Eric Durant.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Cynthia.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Representing Prudential on today's call are John Strangfeld CEO; Mark Grier Vice Chairman; Ed Baird Head of International Businesses; Charlie Lowrey Head of Domestic Businesses; Rob Falzon Chief Financial Officer; and Peter Sayre Controller and Principal Accounting Officer.
We will start with prepared comments by John Mark and Rob and then we'll have at your questions.
In order to help you to understand Prudential Financial we will make some forward-looking statements in the following presentation.
It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today.
Additional information regarding factors that could cause such a difference appears in the section titled Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures of our earnings press release for the third quarter of 2013 which can be found on our website at www.investor.prudential.com.
In addition this presentation may include references to adjusted operating income or to earnings per share or EPS or return on equity or ROE which are determined based on adjusted operating income.
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services businesses that excludes certain items.
Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for an income determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP and the excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations.
For a reconciliation of adjusted operating income to the comparable GAAP measure please see our earnings press release on our website.
Additional historical information relating to the company's financial performance is also located on our website.
John? Thank you Eric and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
We appreciate your interest in Prudential.
I'll be brief in order to leave time for Mark and Rob's more expansive comments as well as for your questions.
To sum things up regarding Q3 and in fact year-to-date as well Prudential has never performed better.
In comparison to the third quarter of last year EPS on an adjusted operating income increased 85% this quarter.
Excluding the effect of market-driven and discrete items such as DAC unlocking from the result of each period earnings per share increased by 32% from $1.81 in the third quarter of 2012 to $2.39 in the third quarter of 2013.
And on the same basis our earnings per share for the year-to-date amounted to $6.76.
This is an increase of 37% from $4.95 in the first 3 quarters of 2012.
Our results thus far this year reflect the step-function increase in both the level of earnings and of ROE.
Our focus on the productive deployment of capital which was contemplated in our ROE objective first articulated 3 years ago is clearly paying off.
The successful execution of the Star and Edison acquisitions in Japan the emerging success of the Hartford Life purchase and the addition of the large pension deals we've closed late last year are all contributing meaningfully to this year's results.
We've also realized strong organic growth across our businesses consistent with our strong execution.
Pricing discipline expense and risk management and focus have all served us well in building both current results and future opportunities.
Importantly we've also balanced investments in our business with distribution of capital to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
That said our results also reflect certain items that while very real do tend to fluctuate.
As we said last quarter the things that tend to fluctuate have generally been fluctuating in a positive direction this year.
In particular we benefited from higher-than-expected income from non-component investments especially in Gibraltar and from favorable mortality especially in Individual Life.
All in all then our businesses are performing exceedingly well and we've been helped by fairly strong tailwinds.
We're on a pace to achieve an ROE for the full year that meets or exceeds the top end of our stated ROE objective of 13% to 14% for 2013.
We have a quarter to go to close the books on this year but even then we've never viewed our goal as a 1-year once-and-done objective.
As we've said our goal is to achieve the 13% to 14% ROE in a way that's convincingly sustainable and then prove it out over a cycle.
To us ROE is an outcome not only a number.
And our goal is to achieve and sustain superior performance.
Doing so will be the financial manifestation of our unique business mix the quality of our individual businesses the talent of our people and really good teamwork and execution.
And I have to say that in all of these areas we have never felt better about the company and its prospects.
And with that I'll stop and turn it over to Mark.
Thanks John.
Good morning good afternoon or good evening.
Thank you all for joining us and we appreciate the fact that we're competing with the Twitter story today.
So we're glad you're interested in listening to what we have to say.
I'll take you through the results for the quarter and then I'll turn it over to Rob Falzon who will cover our capital liquidity picture and our guidance for next year.
I'll start with Slide 2 an overview of our financial results for the quarter.
On a reported basis common stock earnings per share amounted to $2.94 for the third quarter based on after-tax adjusted operating income of the Financial Services businesses.
This compares to EPS of $1.59 a year ago.
After adjusting for market-driven and discrete items in both the current quarter and the year-ago quarter EPS was up 32% amounting to $2.39 compared to $1.81.
On that basis pretax earnings for our operating divisions increased 24% for the quarter.
This increase is largely the result of organic growth in the base of account values and assets under management driving higher fees in our U.S.
businesses reflecting both market appreciation and positive net flows over the past year; a greater contribution from investment results in our Retirement business driven largely by the pension risk transfer business we've put on the books late last year; the contribution of the business we acquired from Hartford in January to our Individual Life results; and continued growth of our International Insurance business which also benefited from strong investment results in the current quarter; and cost synergies as we near completion of the Star and Edison integration.
On a GAAP basis we reported net income of $981 million for the current quarter.
This includes the net effect of a charge to increase our embedded derivative liability for annuity living benefits which was driven by our annual actuarial review.
And it also includes a benefit to net income this quarter from the accounting impact of foreign currency remeasurements of non-yen liabilities on the books of our Japanese insurance companies.
The comparison of book value per share excluding accumulated other comprehensive income or AOCI is affected significantly by the accounting geography mismatch from asset liability changes driven by foreign currency frustrations where the impact on non-yen liabilities runs through the income statement while the offsetting impact on the assets is included in AOCI rather than in net income.
After adjusting the numbers to remove the impact of this mismatch book value per share is $60.12 at the end of the third quarter up $1.88 from year end after the payment of 3 quarterly dividends totaling $1.20 per share.
When we evaluate our ROE performance in relation to our goals we also adjust for this accounting geography mismatch which benefited our reported ROE by reducing the denominator.
After removing this benefit along with a net benefit to results from actuarial unlockings and other market-driven and discrete items our annualized ROE for the third quarter would be about 16% reflecting the very strong performance of our businesses in the quarter.
Presented on Slide 3 this year's annual review of actuarial assumptions had a favorable impact of $280 million on pretax adjusted operating income or $0.38 per share.
In our Annuities business the main drivers of the favorable unlocking of $301 million were a reduction in our lapse assumptions and updates for expected benefit utilization based on emerging experience along with some calculation refinements.
The other charges and benefits from the annual review are largely offsetting.
The most significant items were a $108 million charge in Gibraltar Life primarily to strengthen reserves on a block of business that came to us in the Star and Edison acquisitions driven mainly by observed benefit utilization; and also a $45 million benefit in Group Insurance reflecting updates of both life and disability claims reserves based on experienced studies.
Slide 4 shows the remainder of this quarter's lift of market-driven and discrete items included in our results and it is short.
In the Annuities business the performance of our separate account funds reflecting the equity market increase in the quarter caused us to release a portion of our reserve for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits and led to a favorable DAC unlocking resulting in a benefit of $0.21 per share.
Going the other way charges for integration costs in the quarter totaled $0.04 per share.
In total the items I just mentioned including the impact of the annual actuarial review had a favorable impact of $0.55 per share on third quarter results.
Slide 5 presents 2 views of our ROE trend.
The blue bars are as reported based on adjusted operating income and equity excluding AOCI.
This view reflects the variability and results for market-driven and discrete items including the impact of our actuarial reviews in the third quarter of each year as well as the impact on ROE from fluctuations in the denominator due to foreign currency remeasurement.
The gold bars provide a view of our ROE trend that is more indicative of our underlying performance by removing the impact of market-driven and discrete items and removing the impact of the foreign currency remeasurement that affects our book value through net income.
On this basis annualized ROE was 15.4% for the first 9 months of this year compared to 11.6% a year ago.
On a GAAP basis our net income of $981 million for the Financial Services businesses in the third quarter includes amounts characterized as net realized investment losses of $556 million pretax comprised of the items you see on Slide 6.
The $1.7 billion loss from product-related embedded derivatives and hedging was largely driven by reducing our assumed level of lapses on variable annuity contracts based on our annual actuarial review.
While lower assumed lapses contributed to a positive unlocking for our AOI results they produced a charge here because of the capital markets assumptions we are required to use for embedded derivatives under GAAP.
Stepping away from the accounting treatment greater persistency increases the present value of expected cash flows for the book of business under our base capital market assumptions which include a 6% blended long-term annual rate of return as we showed on our Investor Day because the higher fees we collect outweigh the greater costs of the benefits.
However for product embedded derivatives GAAP provides guidelines for capital markets assumptions to be used both to project account value growth and to discount benefit payments extending out decades into the future.
For example under this quarter's GAAP calculation the assumed blended annual long-term rate of return for account value growth is about 1.5% with equities growing at 0.75% annually.
These market inputs when applied together with a greater persistency assumption were the main drivers of a $1.5 billion increase in the embedded derivative liability producing most of the $1.7 billion loss.
Foreign currency remeasurement was a positive item for our GAAP income statement this quarter.
This remeasurement primarily represents changes in the value of non-yen liabilities relating to products denominated in U.S.
dollars and other currencies on the books of our Japanese companies whose functional currency is the yen.
Strengthening of the yen produced a gain in the income statement because it would take less yen to pay off these liabilities.
We consider this noneconomic because the liabilities are matched with assets in the currencies in which they will be settled.
As I mentioned the offsetting change in the yen value of the assets is in AOCI rather than net income.
Impairments and credit losses on investments were small in the quarter.
Moving now to our business results and Slide 7.
I'll start with our U.S.
Retirement Solutions and Investment Management businesses.
Slide 7 shows a view of the results of these businesses and the adjustments we make for market-driven and discrete items to get a view of underlying performance relative to a year ago.
Slide 8 highlights the Annuity business.
After adjusting for unlocking and experienced true-ups Annuity results were $370 million for the quarter an increase of $115 million from a year ago.
Stripping out the impact of the unlockings and other one-off items we've disclosed as we've done on Slide 9 in the gold bars the trend of earnings for the Annuity business has outpaced our account value growth over the past year.
Account values amounted to $147 billion at the end of the quarter up 11% from a year ago.
This increase was driven by market appreciation together with about $4 billion of net flows which mainly occurred last year and in the first quarter of this year.
Our base policy charges on variable annuities are linked to daily account values.
And with average separate account balances up 16% from the year-ago quarter exceeding the point-to-point growth you see here policy charges and fees were up 15% from a year ago.
Our results also benefited from a reduced drag from distribution and other costs which rose less rapidly than revenues and also benefited from a more favorable back amortization rate as our gross profits have improved.
Turning to Slide 10 our gross annuity sales for the quarter were $2.4 billion in line with this year's second quarter but down from $5.9 billion a year ago.
We regard our level of sales as an outcome rather than a target.
And the current level of sales reflects actions we've taken over the past year to adapt our products to the current environment in order to maintain appropriate return prospects and improve our risk profile.
While leaving writer fees unchanged for our living benefit guarantees we reduced the income payout rates at various age bands and eliminated the guaranteed doubling of protected withdrawal value after 12 years when we introduced last February our current living benefit feature called Highest Daily Income or HDI 2.1.
In addition over the past year we've withdrawn our x shares or bonus product.
We have suspended acceptance of subsequent premiums and generations of products offered before 2011.
And we implemented a cap on subsequent purchase payments on more recent HDI products.
In addition to maintain an appropriate balance between the value proposition to customers and compensation to our distribution partners.
Early this year we also reduced the commission rates that we pay.
Slide 11 highlights the Retirement business.
After stripping out market-driven and discrete items which include the impacts of our annual actuarial reviews in each year and a charge in the year-ago quarter to write off intangible assets relating to a business we acquired in 2008 earnings for the Retirement business amounted to $241 million for the current quarter up $89 million from a year ago.
Current quarter results benefited by about $80 million from a greater contribution from net investment results driven largely by spread earnings from the 2 major pension risk transfer transactions that we closed late last year.
The benefit from higher fees driven by account value growth was partly offset by higher expenses.
Total Retirement gross deposits and sales shown on Slide 12 were $10.5 billion for the current quarter compared to $6.4 billion a year ago.
Standalone institutional gross sales amounted to $5 billion in the current quarter compared to $3 billion a year ago.
Current quarter sales included $4.1 billion of stable value wrap products sold to plan sponsors while the year-ago quarter included $2.5 billion of those sales.
Full service gross deposits and sales were $5.5 billion for the quarter including a major case win of $1.3 billion.
This compares to a total of $3.5 billion a year ago.
Net flows remained in the positive column for the third consecutive quarter with strong retention of existing cases.
Total retirement net flows for the current quarter amounted to $3.4 billion.
And account values stood at a record high $312 billion at the end of the quarter up by more than $60 billion from a year ago including about $32 billion from the pension risk transferred transaction late last year.
Slide 13 highlights the Asset Management business.
The Asset Management business reported adjusted operating income of $200 million for the current quarter an increase of $11 million from a year ago.
This increase was driven by higher asset management fees reflecting growth in assets under management net of expenses.
The segment's assets under management amounted to $848 billion at the end of the quarter up 9% from a year ago.
While most of the segment's results come from asset management fees the contribution from what we call other related revenues which encompasses incentive transactions strategic investing and commercial mortgage activities is variable in nature since it reflects changing valuations and timing of transactions.
The contribution from these activities to current quarter results was $47 million down by $24 million from a year ago which partly offsets the growth in earnings that are driven by asset management fees.
Slide 14 shows our U.S.
life insurance businesses including the adjustments for the updates driven by our annual actuarial reviews and The Hartford integration costs.
Slide 15 highlights Individual Life.
After adjusting for market-driven and discrete items Individual Life reported earnings of $145 million for the current quarter up $6 million from a year ago.
The in-force block of business we acquired from Hartford contributed about $32 million.
The business integration remains on track.
We are building a unified distribution system drawing on The Hartford's strength in financial institutions and our solid positioning in the brokerage general agency channel and are well into the process of integrating the product portfolios.
Cost synergies are emerging in line with our expectations.
The contribution from the acquired business was partly offset in the comparison of results by higher distribution costs reflecting the expansion of our third-party distribution system as well as higher current quarter sales and also partially offset by a lower contribution from net investment results.
Individual Life sales on Slide 16 based on annualized new business premiums amounted to $165 million for the current quarter including $53 million from the third-party distribution partners that came to us with The Hartford acquisition.
This compares to total sales of $98 million a year ago.
The current quarter sales increase was mainly driven by universal life products with guaranteed universal life accounting for just over half of our current quarter sales.
Our guaranteed universal life products have had strong demand in third-party distribution channels including the financial institution distributors that came to us with The Hartford acquisition.
We've taken steps to limit concentration and maintain appropriate returns which have driven the sequential quarter declines in overall Individual Life sales that you see this year.
These actions have included a series of price increases most recently in July and October of this year and we are discontinuing The Hartford's legacy guaranteed universal life product as part of our product portfolio transition.
In addition we implemented a cap last May on the amount of premium a client can invest when purchasing a contract.
Because of the time span of the application and underwriting process typically up to 4 months we would expect these actions to have an increasing impact on our reported sales going forward.
Slide 17 highlights Group Insurance.
After adjusting for the reserve refinements reflecting our annual actuarial reviews Group Insurance earnings amounted to $23 million in the current quarter compared to $28 million a year ago.
The decrease reflected higher expenses and a lower contribution from investment results which together more than offset improved claims experience in group life.
Slide 18 presents the results of our International Insurance business.
Once again adjusting for the refinements reflecting our annual actuarial reviews integration costs and a China Pacific sale gain that benefited Gibraltar Life's results in the year-ago quarter.
Slide 19 highlights Life Planner operations.
After adjusting for market-driven and discrete items our Life Planner business reported earnings of $405 million for the quarter up $32 million from a year ago.
The increase was mainly driven by continued business growth.
On a constant dollar basis insurance revenues including premiums policy charges and fees were up by 7% from a year ago.
In addition foreign currency exchange rates which reflect our hedging of yen income at 80 this year versus 85 last year contributed a benefit of $13 million to earnings in comparison to a year ago.
Slide 20 highlights our Gibraltar and other international operations.
After adjusting for the items I mentioned Gibraltar Life reported earnings of $470 million for the current quarter up $107 million from a year ago.
The current quarter benefited from a contribution from investment results about $50 million greater than a year ago.
About half of this increase came from non-coupon investments mainly reflecting strong performance in Japanese real estate-related investments.
Third quarter results also reflected about $60 million of cost savings achieved thus far from the Star and Edison business integrations compared to about $40 million in the year-ago quarter.
The remainder of the increase came mainly from continued business growth and from improved mortality which was about $10 million more favorable than the average contribution of the past 4 quarters.
Current quarter results in Gibraltar also benefited by $11 million in the comparison from foreign currency exchange rates.
Turning now to the sales trend in International Insurance shown on Slide 21.
International Insurance sales on a constant dollar basis were $726 million for the current quarter compared to $941 million a year ago.
Our international sales pattern is affected by market developments seasonality and actions we've taken such as repricings.
The most dramatic impact on the sales pattern for the past 5 quarters is the surge in sales of Gibraltar's yen-based bank-channel single premium whole life product that occurred during the third and fourth quarters of last year reflecting competitor actions earlier in the year which limited the alternatives available to bank customers with substantial funds to invest in life insurance products.
In order to limit our concentration in the product and maintain appropriate returns we implemented crediting rate reductions and reduced commissions effective January 1 of this year and we discontinued sales of the product at the end of September.
A $280 million decline in sales of this product in the current quarter compared to a year ago more than offset an overall increase of $65 million or 11% for the remainder of our product portfolio.
Our sales tend to be seasonally strongest in the first and second quarters due to accelerated sales efforts toward the end of the fiscal year in Japan on March 31 and lump-sum payouts to retiring teachers that become available for investment in life insurance products during the second quarter.
This seasonality effect is the main driver of the sales decline from the second quarter of this year to the current quarter.
Slide 22 breaks out Life Planner sales.
Life Planner sales were $265 million in the current quarter compared to $271 million a year ago.
As you see in the gold portion of the bars sales of our U.S.
dollar whole life and retirement income products in Japan amounted to $37 million in the current quarter down from $46 million a year ago.
Changes in currency exchange rates have made products that are denominated in U.S.
dollars about 25% more expensive to Japanese consumers in yen terms during the current quarter than they were a year ago.
This has dampened demand for these products.
The decline in these sales essentially offset an increase of $10 million or 8% in other products sold by Prudential of Japan.
Current quarter sales in our Life Planner operations outside of Japan were down $7 million from a year ago driven by lower sales in Korea.
Slide 23 shows sales in Gibraltar Life.
Sales in Gibraltar Life were $461 million in the current quarter compared to $670 million a year ago.
Taking a look at the gold portions of the bars you can see a $225 million decline in sales through the bank channel.
This reflects the $280 million decrease in sales of the single premium yen-based product that I mentioned partly offset by $50 million to $55 million greater sales of other products mainly recurring premium death protection policies good business.
Sales by Life Consultants are flat with the year-ago quarter.
Over the past year the Life Consultant count has declined by about 2 400 to roughly 9 300 at the end of the third quarter which is consistent with our expectations as we near completion of the process of implementing minimum production requirements and other Gibraltar standards for the sales force that came to us with the Star and Edison acquisitions.
The impact on sales from the decline in headcount was essentially offset by an increase in productivity both in terms of policies sold per Life Consultant per month and in terms of average premium per sale.
Sales by independent agents which are largely in the small business market are up $17 million from a year ago.
Slide 24 shows the results for Corporate and Other.
Corporate and Other operations reported a loss of $312 million for the current quarter.
This compares to a $320 million loss a year ago after adjusting for market-driven and discrete items.
The decrease in the loss reflects lower expenses in the current quarter.
And now I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks Mark.
I'd like to give you an update on some key items under the heading of financial strength and flexibility and then address guidance for 2014.
Starting on Slide 25.
We continue to manage our insurance companies to levels consistent with what we believe are AA standards.
For Prudential Insurance we manage to a 400% RBC ratio which we believe gives us some cushion against our AA objective.
We began the year with an RBC ratio above 450%.
While we don't perform a quarterly bottoms-up RBC calculation we estimate that our RBC ratio continues to be above 450% at Prudential Insurance after giving effects to The Hartford transaction and other activities in the first 9 months of the year.
Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar Life reported strong solvency margins of 728% and 899% respectively as of June 30.
These are comfortably above our 600% to 700% targets.
Looking at the overall capital position for the Financial Services businesses on Slide 26 we calculate our on balance sheet capital capacity by comparing the statutory capital position of Prudential Insurance to our 400% RBC ratio target and then add capital capacity held at the parent company and other subsidiaries.
At the end of last year prior to funding the Hartford Life acquisition our on balance sheet capital capacity was roughly $3 billion of which $1.5 billion to $2 billion was readily deployable.
Through the first 9 months of this year we funded The Hartford acquisition declared 3 quarterly common stock dividends of $0.40 each for a total of about $560 million and repurchased $500 million of our common stock totaling roughly $1.8 billion of capital deployment and returns of capital.
These capital uses were more than offset by excess capital generated within our businesses resulting in available on balance sheet capital capacity of about $3.5 billion at September 30 including about $1.5 billion that we consider readily deployable.
As you know we announced a new $1 billion repurchase authorization in June which extends through June 30 of next year.
We executed $250 million of share repurchases during the third quarter under this authorization.
Turning to the cash position of the parent company.
Cash and short-term investments net of outstanding commercial paper amounted to about $4.5 billion at the end of the third quarter.
This reflects senior debt issuance of $1 billion as well as $500 million of senior debt that matured during the quarter.
Our recent issuance prefunded $350 million of debt that will mature in 2014.
The cash in excess of our targeted $1.3 billion liquidity cushion is available to repay maturing debt fund operating needs or redeploy over time.
Now I'd like to talk about our earnings guidance for 2014.
Let's start by reviewing the key assumptions and considerations that underpin our guidance as summarized on Slide 27.
First to level set.
Through the first 9 months of 2013 our earnings per share excluding items we identified as market-driven and discrete was $6.76.
Recall that throughout the year as we discussed our results we called out additional items that tend to fluctuate and were in the aggregate tailwinds to results including excess returns on our non-coupon investments and favorable mortality in relation to average expectations.
Adjusting for these items as if they were roughly in line with midpoint expectations or historical averages provides a run rate of approximately $6.50 per share for the first 9 months or about $8.65 per share on an annualized basis.
We believe this provides an appropriate starting point for our 2014 guidance.
Our guidance assumes a 2013 ending S&amp;P 500 level of 1 760 which is near to today's S&amp;P and then 6% growth for 2014.
Our international insurance business nondollar earnings are hedged and therefore locked in at JPY 82 and KRW 1 150 to the U.S.
dollar.
Interest rates were assumed to follow a yield curve based on current rates.
Lastly we expect an effective tax rate of approximately 28%.
Pulling all of this together our 2014 earnings guidance range for our Financial Services businesses on an adjusted operating income basis is $8.75 to $9.25 per share.
Now I'll turn it back to John.
Thank you Rob.
Thank you Mark.
And we'd now like to open it up to questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And we will go to the line of Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question just on in the quarter maybe the below the line charge the $1.7 billion.
You talked about it primarily related to lapses.
And I think back at the Investor Day in June when you walked through all the cash flows and MCV scenarios you talked about lowering the lapse assumptions for those that were outside of the surrender charge period from 10% in 2012 to 9%.
So I'm wondering if that's what this charge is related to or if you've done something else in terms of refining assumptions maybe inside surrender charge period? Chris it's Rob Falzon.
No that's on point.
What we did is we further updated that base lapse assumption.
We brought it down from -- brought it from 9% down to 7%.
We also tinkered with the dynamic lapse assumption and the sensitivity of customer behavior to the in-the-money-ness of their policy and the combination of those 2 are the primary drivers to the $1.7 billion that you're looking at.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the dynamic lapse assumption that moved from 5 4 to about where? Well that's a very difficult thing to calibrate because it's a slope so it sort of depends on where on the curve you are.
But the order of magnitude of change would be sort of in the same range as what you're looking at on the base lapse assumption.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess regarding variable annuities.
I mean you've sort of stabilized here that the $2.4 billion $2.5 billion range.
We did see a competitor to a reinsurance arrangement.
I'm just wondering your thoughts given the distribution and how strong of a distribution channel you guys have if that's something you would consider given the demand still appears to be there kind of across the industry for VA products.
Sure.
Chris this as Charlie.
We think that those kind of transactions are all about diversifying risk.
And we review our risk management strategies for our living benefit guarantees on an ongoing basis.
And while we've looked at reinsurance and we'll continue to look at Prudential reinsurance transactions up until this point they haven't been as compelling to us.
So we approach the issues in a slightly different way.
First we lowered sales to an appropriate level relative to our overall business mix so we're down about 60% from year-over-year.
Second we lowered the risk profile of our existing VA product as Mark described.
And third we've diversified and are continuing to diversify our product range into other products with different or complementary risk profiles.
So for an example we launched our PDI product earlier this year which has no equity risk because it's based on fixed income.
So we'll continue to look for ways to add products to diversify risk further as well as continue to look at reinsurance where it might make sense both to our existing book and on a prospective basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One last quick one then I'll get back in the queue.
Just Mark you guys you accepted the non-bank SIFI designation.
So wondering if you can give us any kind of additional comments in terms of maybe the decision why not to move ahead with legal action and then any other kind of updated thoughts or developments here over the past couple of months? Yes.
The decision not to pursue this issue in court was a business judgment that was made by management and the board.
And we believe it's the best decision for the company.
We by the way I would say have a fundamental difference of opinion with respect to the liquidity basis for designation.
However we also believe that moving on is the right thing for us to do and that we will now continue to play a constructive role in the development of things like capital standards and the supervisory framework and so we're moving on with it.
In terms of where we stand our supervisory regulatory and capital regimes are all evolving.
We'll be fully cooperative and responsive with respect to the supervision by the Federal Reserve and we'll seek opportunities to provide constructive input on issues that are important like capital standards.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
First I wanted to again follow-up on the lapse assumption change and the discussion of GAAP versus economics.
The returns that were assumed under GAAP that's what came out of your stochastic modeling? Steven it's Rob Falzon.
No on the -- our -- unless we're talking about the GMWB to be clear.
Our GMWB falls under FAS 157/133.
Under that accounting we use risk neutral accounting for it so it's not stochastic modeling.
It's actually a market-neutral view of that liability that uses market rates for returns as opposed to best estimates for return.
So by way of example Mark highlighted them in his talking points upfront that's the calculation that has equities earning 75 basis points fixed income earning 2.25 over the life for a blended return on the account values of 1.5%.
So it's not a stochastic modeling of expected account values but rather the risk-neutral view of that.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'll take this up Neal and where those numbers come from I guess.
Quickly just looking at the guidance just a couple of questions.
Is share repurchase assumed in this? We don't provide guidance on share repurchases specifically Steven.
I think as you know our board authorized $1 billion of stock buybacks in June of this year.
That extends from June of next year and out of that $1 billion we implemented $0.25 billion in the third quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one more if I may.
The Japanese consumption tax how much do you think that's going to affect earnings for 2014? This is Ed Baird responding.
Not by a lot because the consumption tax is applicable to third party.
And third party is a smaller portion of our distribution than it is for some other companies that you may be monitoring on this.
So we don't anticipate any material impact next year.
Our next question comes from the line of Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just to get some of the annuity lapses [ph] I understand this is a GAAP charge but any implications for your statutory results either for this quarter or for year end cash flow testing? Nigel it's Rob.
It's a good question.
There is a statutory impact as a result of the charge that we took.
However that impact is entirely offset within our PrucoRe entity where these writers reside by the gains that we have from the macro interest rate hedge we have within that entity.
So as a result of that there will be no capital capacity impact as a result of this assumption update.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
Second just in looking at the results.
Obviously one of the key areas of the upside was the non-coupon investments at Gibraltar.
So I was just hoping to get some color regarding the size of the equity in real estate portfolio housed in Japan? And if we go back longer over the time frame just beyond the last 4 quarters what's sort of like a normalized return you would expect to generate from those investments? Nigel it's Eric.
Let me deal with the normalized return aspect of your question.
The truth is we don't know what a normal return there is.
So let me just give you some numbers.
In all of last year the contribution of income on non-coupon investments at Gibraltar was $97 million.
For the year-to-date through September -- and in the third quarter by the way it was $71 million.
For the year-to-date through September it was $176 million.
I think you're on your own in coming up with what you would consider a normal level of income from those investments to be.
As for the size of the portfolio basically are 3 different pieces here.
There are equities that we own that generate dividend income but the equities themselves are not mark-to-market.
There is directly-owned real estate and then there are fund investments generally in the form of a limited partnership.
And the vast majority of the growth from 2012 to so far in 2013 has come from the fund investments and reflects a very favorable market conditions both equities and real estate in Japan.
Research Division</strong> And if you were to put those 3 buckets together what will be -- can you provide the aggregate size or is that something you haven't disclosed? The aggregate size at Gibraltar I don't think is a very meaningful number frankly but I'll answer the question.
It's about $3 million.
Our next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So just another question on first the VA charge just wondering how you're thinking of the charge.
Is it more because you've underestimated the economic liability? Or it seems like it's more just because of very conservative market assumptions embedded in U.S.
GAAP.
And then if the market does perform better than what's embedded in the charge would some of that charge reverse over time? So that's the first question.
And then secondly for Charlie on the disability the loss that you show if we adjust for the actuarial assumption change I think was around 96% which is worse than where it was before.
So maybe just talk about what you're seeing in the disability business what drove the deterioration there and just progress on your repricing initiatives.
So Jimmy it's Rob.
I'll answer the first question and turn it over to Charlie.
In terms of our view of assumption updates there's an accounting outcome and that's programmatic and I think we've described for you how that math is done and you could place your own judgments as to how conservative that is.
We gave you the reinvestment rates.
They result in particularly large claims way out in the future when the account values grow at those very modest levels.
And then those claims are discounted back at a LIBOR curve or the swap curve at a very low rate which reflects today's rates.
When we look at our own expected case modeling for purposes of our anticipated cash flows as a result of the assumption update we believe there's been a significant increase in the present value of our cash flows associated with this book of business.
And so that's kind of our economic lens on that.
In terms of the second part of your question which is the reversion yes to the extent that through the 1 33 it's going to always be marked at market through the swap curve; to the extent that we actually realize better returns than are forecasted will result in reversions going toward us at points in the future.
So just to be clear the economics are better when lapses go down but the accounting is worse.
It's a point we made on Investor Day and your question is right on point.
Charlie? Okay.
Well let me answer Jimmy's second question which has to do with disability and the benefit ratios.
So the disability ratio this quarter was -- on a normalized basis was 96% versus the year-ago of 96.5%.
So we've come down slightly.
It is worse than it was last quarter which was 93.2%.
Now we said the process wasn't going to be linear and that we're going to kind of grind the ratio back down is the words we've been using and that's exactly what we're doing.
But if you look at incidents severity and termination for a moment third quarter to third quarter where we did see improvement incidents decreased severity was slightly higher but terminations increased.
And I'll come back to termination in a second because that's an important part of the equation.
Third quarter and second quarter we have both incidents and severity both increase somewhat severity more than incidents which more than offset the increase in terminations.
So you did have a little bit of a backstep there.
But I think the issue and the important issues we've been working really hard on claims management.
And the terminations in both cases have gone up.
So we're dealing with the problem.
We're about 1/3 of the way through it at this point.
We're repricing certain cases.
We're letting others lapse and we're working on the terminations themselves which are showing material improvement.
So we'll get there but it isn't going to be linear.
But if you look on a sort of 4-quarter rolling average I think you'll see improvement as we go forward.
Our next question will come from the line of Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the International business if you can talk a little bit about your outlook for sales? And are you expecting growth to reaccelerate in 2014 as some of the noise from the tough comps in the single premium sales subsides? Yes.
Let me explain a little bit about what happened in this quarter and then might lay a foundation from which you can drive some of your own extrapolations.
So the overall drop was driven as Mark pointed out primarily by what happened in the bank.
And that was a targeted reduction.
The single premium product which dominated last year much of the bank distribution of the roughly $1.4 billion last year about $900 million of it was single premium.
That product can work pretty well in a flat or rising interest rate environment but in a dropping interest rate environment it's not a product we want to be in.
And that's why as you'll recall over the earlier course of the year we put in a series of constraints which culminated in ultimately our shutting the product down.
So that's a big number that has dropped out of the overall production.
If you then switch over to the -- and I think by the way within bank channel you will see growth over time but it will take time for that recurring premium growth to make up for the loss in the single premium.
So that drop was precipitous and intended whereas the growth equally intended would be more gradual.
If you look over on the Life Consultant side the flat sales is actually extremely good news for the reason that Mark pointed out.
We were able to achieve essentially the same sales in this quarter as we did this time last year through Life Consultant but with 2 400 fewer salespeople which allows us to reduce agencies real estate et cetera.
So that's about a 20% reduction in the headcount which was fully made up for about equally between productivity measured in number of sales and the average premium.
Those 2 are very healthy signs for this business going forward.
I anticipate that the headcount the reduction our rate will slow down gradually stabilize.
And as a result we'll follow precisely the pattern we followed a decade ago when we took Kyoei now Gibraltar to the same pattern.
And if you look at the Life Planner that was down a little bit but I'm not so much concerned about that because of where the drop came from.
As you well know 3 factors drive sales.
The headcount which in the case here continues to be pretty healthy at around 4%.
That's probably as good as we can continue that in light of the emphasis on quality.
The productivity actually rose slightly.
So the only place where there was a drop which produced the overall drop in Life Planner sales was in the average premium.
And that dropped relatively substantially by about 8%.
I'm not too concerned about that.
I view that as episodic not in any way indicative.
And the reason I say that is if you look back over the last 4 or 5 years a lot of our sales growth was driven by on average about a 4% to 5% increase year-by-year in the average premium.
So typically what we have had and what I anticipate recurring again in the future is you get about a 4% growth in headcount you get maybe a 4% or 5% growth in the average premium you get a smidgen out of productivity and that gets you to the double-digit which has characterized the historic pattern and I would expect us to return to that in the future.
I hope that's somewhat helpful.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then you mentioned some of the sales of U.S.
dollar products have declined a bit given the movements in the currency.
So are you seeing customers shift to yen-denominated products? And then can you just talk about how you're positioned in the yen-denominated market and whether you earn the same margins on yen-denominated products as you do on the dollar-denominated? Yes.
The yen-denominated product at least on the retirement income side is very common product in the small business market which is a significant market for our life planners particularly some of our more experienced and successful life planners.
The dollar-denominated one is used more traditionally in the individual market for the purposes evidenced by its name retirement income.
So you get a number of factors here.
Part of it is the currency factor.
But it's difficult to isolate that because there has also been rate increases on both currency-based products over the last year 1.5 years.
So it's a little hard to know precisely what might be driving it.
But I will point out that the dollar-denominated retirement income has been the lead product in Life Planners specifically in POJ for probably 5 6 years now.
And over that period of time you will have seen that the currency rate has fluctuated rather dramatically.
So I wouldn't attribute too much significance to just a single quarter's movement in the currency.
I suspect you will see this retain its position as a lead product for POJ regardless of currency movements.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any comment just on the relative margin between yen and dollar-denominated? They tend not to -- over time over a cycle of movements on the interest rates they tend to be priced in relatively the same region so it has a lot more to do with what's going on in at any one particular time in the capital market than it does necessarily what we're targeting in our pricing.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Finkelstein with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Rob you talked in your presentation about spending $1.8 billion between Hartford buybacks dividends et cetera and total available capital grew by about $500 million so that gets you to kind of $2.3 billion if you will of implied capital generations which annualizes to somewhere around $3 billion.
And I guess my first question is is that the right way to think about capital generation going forward? Were there things in this particular first 9 months that kind of would influence that one way or the other? What is your outlook on '14? Well Mark let me try to answer your question without giving an outlook on '14 and tell you how I sort of think about the framework for capital capacity and capital generation.
Start with the net income of the business.
So if you look through -- and adjust that for the noneconomic things.
So we always start with our capacity that we had at the end of last year that was around $3 billion.
We had net income before FX remeasurement and NPR of about $2.2 billion if you did that calculation.
And then deduct from that the capital deployment things that I called out to you which was the combination of dividends the stock repurchases and The Hartford acquisition.
As a result of that you had the difference between those 2 is about $0.5 billion worth of positive capital net generation.
There are a number of other things that run through for the first 9 months of the year.
However all those other things wash each other out.
And so when you look at where we were at the end of last year and where we are as of September it's about that $0.5 billion difference between what we generate in earnings and what we redeployed in the 3 ways that I described.
There are times when we have other things moving through capital capacity but that's not creating a lot of noise in this particular year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe just moving to guidance a little bit.
You just -- you kind of framed out $8.65 as a reasonable starting point.
The low end of the range is $8.75.
And I guess what I'm interested in is there -- are there any businesses that as we look out to '14 where if you kind of eliminate kind of the non-coupon investments or favorable mortality or kind of some of the non-kind-of-trendable stuff putting that to the side are there any of the businesses that you're expecting kind of pressured earnings relative to what we've seen in '13 kind of in a sense net earnings to go down if you will? Well in our guidance we're not providing anything specific at a business level Mark so I actually can't respond to your question directly.
Just to be clear the starting number that I gave you we did eliminate the excess non-coupon and the excess mortality.
And so that's out of the numbers on an enterprise level basis.
But the guidance we're providing is at an enterprise level without bringing it down any further.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One more if I just may.
What was the actual statutory charge on lapse? I think you alluded to it saying it was offset by the macro hedge but what was the actual impact? So if you look at the -- recall that our account -- statutory accounting for this particular product follows what we call a modified GAAP so it's not traditional stat.
And so if you look at the change in the hedge target that would have been about $1.4 billion.
Research Division</strong> And that was fully offset by macro? I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> And that was fully offset by the macro hedge? That's the reserve charge.
When you look at the capital implications of that you have to tax effect it.
And then we have to add to that some additional risk capital that we had to put in.
So the net capital number absent that reserve charge that's what ran through the P&amp;L in the statutory books would have been about roughly $1 billion.
And yes it was $1.1 billion and it was entirely offset by the gains that we had on the macro hedge.
Research Division</strong> In a rising equity and interest rate environment? I'm just confused about how the macro hedge would have offset that? It's a cumulative gain on the macro hedge not just a quarter's gain.
So it was the gain that we had in there that we never count as part of our capital capacity.
And generally you have -- it's a protection against rising interest rates so it gains as rates rise.
It's the famous under hedge.
Our next question will come from the line of Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> The Individual Annuity's core ROA was up to about 102 basis points in the quarter.
If the equity market kind of follows the path in your 2014 guidance assumption should we think about that as a sustainable type of margin going forward? I think so.
Because if you -- this is Charlie by the way.
If you look at the drivers of that it was really an increased margin from increasing fees and less increasing expenses.
And so that drove the ROA along with a lower take [ph] factor.
So the combination of that and if you extrapolate out our assumption should be that that's a sustainable margin going forward.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then on statutory cash flow testing as we head into the end of the year I guess last year you added a pretty substantial amount for your long-term care business I guess relative to its modest size.
With interest rate up in 2013 could we see some reversal of that reserve add from last year? Ryan it's Rob.
I'm not going to speculate on what interest rates will do in the future.
What I will tell you is that when you look at the -- I think I can give you the rates that we set our AAT at last year and then you can make your own forecast as to what that may do in the future.
You've just got to give me 1 second to run that down.
I would say the rates on -- that we set at the time that we set up the reserve for long-term care were significantly below today's rates.
I'll have to -- rather than scamp around now and try to find it I can follow-up with you and give you that number.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And I guess -- I'll follow-up.
Actually let me just follow-up Ryan when we set the rates -- as of September where we set the rates a year ago versus today we're about 56 basis points higher than when the LRR was established last year.
Specific answer to your question.
There are a lot of moving parts in this but the gist of your point is that the directional impact of higher rates is good.
But again there are a lot of moving parts.
Our next question comes from the line of Seth Weiss from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> And just to follow-up on the run rate and annuities I understand that you don't give sales targets in annuities.
If just thinking about that ROA is sustainable it's fair to say that we're assuming that today's level of sales is a good base level is that correct? I think what we'd say there is that we're comfortable with the level of sales we have today and sort of leave it at that right? We wanted to reduce the level of sales and we did because we think about a number of different aspects when we think about level of sales.
One is the product and making sure it's profitable and we've taken steps in that direction.
Second is to ensure that it still fulfills the customer need and it appears to be doing so.
And the third is the overall percentage of business mix.
And Mark and John talked a lot about business mix overall.
And that can be a governing factor.
So between those 3 variables we come up with what we like to think of as a level of sales which we'd be comfortable with and we think we're comfortable with the level of sales we have now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And just a follow-up question in terms of the share repurchase authorization and understanding that you're not going to give any specific buyback guidance.
With you no longer formally challenging the SIFI designation from a process standpoint is there anything different in this quarter from last quarter in terms of being able to go into the market and repurchase shares? Well capital planning broadly will be part of the supervision process with the Federal Reserve yes.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of this quarter even though there's no formal restriction yet any action will need to have a discussion with the Fed is that correct? I would characterize it more the way I just said it which is pretty general and that is that capital planning is one of the issues that will be part of our supervisory process.
I don't want to be more specific than that.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Kenneth Lee filling in for Eric Berg.
I just have a question on pension transfers.
We're seeing an environment of rising equity rates.
Equity markets is presumably helping out pension funding levels for corporations.
So just curious if on balance you guys are seeing more or less interest among corporate clients for pension transfers? Sure.
It's Charlie.
Clearly the funding ratios have gotten better.
If you look at the latest Mercer study you see that the average funding ratio is probably around 91% or so with interest rates and equity markets rising.
But I think it's fair to break the market down into 3 different segments.
And the first is what we call 0 to $1 billion maybe 0 to $2 billion.
And that's mainly a cash market.
And there's always a certain number of these transactions that are done year in and year out.
And we have seen a slight uptick in activity here but this is pretty much business as usual.
And there are lots of competitors in this space especially in the 0 to $1 billion range so I'd say a little bit more here but more or less business as usual.
Then you get to $2 billion to $4 billion range there's definitely more activity in this range.
There are more conversations taking place with clients and there's a lot more consultant activity here as well.
And this is either a cash or at the upper end of the range kind of an in-kind market so there are less competitors here but we're definitely having more conversations in this range.
And then finally you get to the jumbo range which is what we characterize as $4 billion and above.
And here what I would say is that we're having the same number of conversations but the intensity of those conversations and specificity of those conversations has increased.
Now as we've always said these will be episodic and they have a very long lead time so conversations are absolutely happening.
And here there are far few players in the market.
So I think you can segment it into 3 different areas but in general I think there are more conversations taking place and at the upper end of the market the intensity has increased.
Our last question will come from the line of Joanne Smith with Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
The first one is on the Full Service Retirement business.
I noticed that you had a large case win during the quarter.
And I do recall you expressing some disinterest in this business going forward given the competition and the pressure on fees.
So I'm wondering if you've had either a change of heart or if conditions have gotten better? Okay.
We have not had a change of heart in terms of profitability.
I think the conditions have gotten better.
I think your -- and you recall -- your recollection is correct in that 2 or 3 years ago we expressed some concern over the pricing in the industry and we pulled back and in fact had negative lows for a number of quarters and that I think reflects the discipline we showed.
But what we're seeing in this market it's interesting is more RFP activity in part because we think some of the HR departments are less focused on health care going forward.
They've kind of looked at that and now are refocused on their plans.
So we see more RFP activity which is we think real.
In other words not as many check bids in the marketplace and so there's a little more plan turnover.
What I'd also say is that we've seen some price stability in the marketplace.
Pricing was going down for a period of time it seems to have stopped as plan sponsors realize they can only squeeze so much out of a rock before they start losing in service.
And so we have -- what we've seen is that we are not necessarily the low bid and we are still winning some plans because they've gone back to looking at service and quality.
Now you can't be way out of line but you can -- you don't have to necessarily be the lowest price in order to win the business.
Service and quality are absolutely factors that are coming back into play.
So we're not going to win every case.
We still have our price discipline but there are cases that we are winning and the pipeline looks pretty good going forward.
Research Division</strong> And are you talking about the large case market? Large and mid-case market.
Research Division</strong> Large and mid-case.
Okay.
And then just for Mark I've been reading a little bit about the language coming out of Washington concerning the Volcker Rule.
And it sounds like it's going to be a lot more tougher than maybe some Wall Street executives think.
I'm wondering have you been able to assess what you've been hearing in Washington about how the Volcker Rule could potentially impact life insurers especially their prospective hedging activity? Well the short answer to that is no.
This is still very much evolving and there's a lot of input flying toward Washington about the consequences of a number of aspects of the Volcker Rule.
And we don't have a very good picture at this point of what that might mean for us.
However hedging activities are core to our business.
And these are not proprietary trading type activities that would be the target at least of the spirit of the Volcker Rule.
We use derivatives to reduce risk not to increase risk.
Research Division</strong> Mark do they understand the whole issue of the derivatives liability? Because it seems to me that the Feds don't understand the life insurance business and the whole complexity that we've been discussing on this call about the VA charge I think it would really confuse the Fed.
Well certainly the complexity and lack of transparency combined with volatility and size of the embedded derivative liability in the Annuity business is important.
I would say that we have opportunities to work hard on explaining this and focusing on the economics versus the accounting and working with the regulators to get pointed in the right direction around a sensible economic solution to thinking about risk and capital.
And today's conference call will be available for replay after 2:00 p.m.
today until midnight November 14.
You may access the AT&amp;T TeleConference replay system by dialing (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 272227.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Prudential Financial Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Eric Durant.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Cynthia.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Representing Prudential today are John Strangfeld CEO; Mark Grier Vice Chairman; Charlie Lowrey head of our U.S.
businesses; Ed Baird head of our International Businesses; Bob Falzon Chief Financial Officer; and Peter Sayre Controller and Principal Accounting Officer.
We'll start with prepared comments and then we'll answer your questions.
In order to help you to understand Prudential Financial we will make some forward-looking statements in the following presentation.
It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today.
Additional information regarding factors that could cause such a difference appears in the section titled Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures of our earnings press release for the fourth quarter of 2013 which can be found on our website at www.investor.prudential.com.
In addition this presentation may include references to adjusted operating income or to earnings per share or EPS or return on equity or ROE which are determined based on adjusted operating income.
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services businesses that exclude certain items.
Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for an income determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP and the excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations.
For a reconciliation of adjusted operating income to the comparable GAAP measure please see our earnings press release on our website.
Additional historical information relating to the company's financial performance is also included on our website.
John? Thank you Eric.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
Now that we've closed the books on 2013 I'd like to kick things off with some high-level comments regarding the year as a whole.
First earnings.
Earnings per share were at $9.67 compared to $6.40 per share for 2012 based on adjusted operating income of the Financial Services businesses.
This is an increase of 51%.
Excluding the significant items we disclose each quarter such as DAC unlockings and business integration costs the EPS increase would be 33%.
Our results reflect strong organic growth across our businesses coupled with pricing discipline and effective expense and risk management.
In addition the successful execution of the Star and Edison acquisitions in Japan the emerging success of The Hartford Life purchase and the addition of the large pension risk transfer deals we closed in late 2012 all contributed meaningfully to this year's earnings.
And while our businesses are performing exceedingly well we've also been helped by healthy tailwinds.
As we have said recently the things that tend to fluctuate generally fluctuated in a positive direction in 2013.
In particular we benefited from strong income from non-coupon investments especially in our Retirement business in the Gibraltar; from favorable mortality especially in Individual Life; and from good case experience in Retirement.
Turning to return on equity.
It was in 2010 that we set out an ROE goal of 13% to 14% for 2013.
We believed then as we do now that achieving and sustaining the 13% to 14% represents superior performance relative to our peers.
As you can see we exceeded the top end of our stated ROE objective.
This reflected our strong underlying business performance the noteworthy step-function changes made possible by M&amp;A and outsized organic as well as the tailwinds I mentioned earlier.
That said 2013 is behind us and we're looking forward.
We've never hit our goal as a 1-year once-and-done objective.
On the contrary our goal is to sustain an ROE of 13% to 14% over a full cycle.
And we believe achievability of that is made possible by the quality and mix of businesses our approach to capital management and most importantly the quality of our people.
I'll close with a few comments on Prudential's financial strength.
The capital position of our U.S.
and Japanese insurance companies continue to meet the high standards we managed them to we believe AA as you will hear from Rob Falzon shortly.
We also have the capacity to remain strongly capitalized even in stressed environments.
We've lowered our ratio of capital debt to total capitalization within our targeted range and diversification of our risk profile has been a priority.
The pension risk transfer transactions added significant longevity risk to our profile other examples include an innovative annuities product that offers retirement income solutions without linkage to equity markets and greater emphasis on non-guaranteed universal life products in Individual Life.
And finally the quality of our investment portfolio has never been better.
With this strong financial position we are able over time to deploy capital in a way that supports a healthy blend of normal organic growth outsized organic such as pension risk transfer M&amp;A such as Star and Edison and Hartford and returns to shareholders such as the $750 million of share repurchases and $800 million of common stock dividends in 2013.
We cannot tell you the precise composition of those elements in any specific timeframe but we think over the long haul it has been balanced and appropriately supportive of both our strategic and our financial objectives.
And with that I'd like to turn it over to Mark.
Thank you John.
Good morning good evening or good afternoon whatever the case may be.
Thank you for joining our call today.
I'll take you through our results for the quarter and then I'll turn it over to Rob Falzon who will cover our capital and liquidity picture.
I'll start with an overview of our financial results for the quarter shown on Slide 2.
On a reported basis common stock earnings per share amounted to $2.20 for the fourth quarter based on after-tax adjusted operating income of the Financial Services businesses.
This compares to EPS of $1.76 a year ago.
After adjusting for market-driven and discrete items in both the current quarter and the year-ago quarter EPS was up 31% amounting to $2.22 compared to $1.69.
On that basis pretax earnings for our operating divisions increased by 41% for the quarter.
Nearly 1/2 of this increase came from organic growth in the base of account values and assets under management driving higher fees in our U.S.
businesses.
In addition lower expenses in several businesses reflect non-recurring costs we incurred a year ago.
The remainder of the increase came mainly from a greater contribution from investment results in our retirement business driven largely by the pension risk transfer business we put on the books late in 2012 and bolstered by exceptionally strong current quarter returns from non-coupon investments; the contribution of the business we acquired from Hartford through our Individual Life results; and finally by continued growth of our international Insurance business which also benefited from lower expenses including cost synergies as the Star and Edison integration is now essentially complete.
On a GAAP basis we reported a net loss of $427 million for the current quarter.
This reflects the accounting impact of foreign currency remeasurement of non-yen liabilities on the books of our Japanese insurance companies reflects losses on sales of lower-yielding securities from portfolio repositioning and reflects negative mark-to-market on derivatives we used in duration management driven by rising interest rates.
The comparison of book value per share excluding accumulated other comprehensive income or AOCI is affected significantly by the geography mismatch from asset and liability changes due to foreign currency fluctuations where the impact on non-yen liabilities runs through the income statement while the offsetting impact on the assets is included in AOCI rather than net income.
After adjusting the numbers to remove the impact of this mismatch book value per share is $59.99 at year end up $1.91 from a year ago after payment of dividends totaling $1.73 per share.
As we've told you we also evaluate our ROE performance in relation to our goals after adjusting for this accounting geography mismatch which benefited our reported ROE by reducing the denominator.
After removing this benefit along with the net benefits to results for market-driven and discrete items our ROE for the year 2013 would be about 15% reflecting solid underlying performance across our businesses with tailwinds including a strong contribution from non-coupon investment results favorable life mortality and favorable retirement case experience.
Slide 3 presents a rundown of the short list of market-driven and discrete items included in our results for the quarter.
In the Annuities business improving fixed income returns for our separate account funds and the equity market increase in the quarter caused us to release a portion of our reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits and led to a favorable DAC unlocking resulting in a benefit of $0.14 per share.
Going the other way based on an internal review we strengthened reserves in our International Insurance Life Planner business for a group of policies that came to us in an acquisition a number of years ago.
In Gibraltar Life we recorded reserve true-ups mainly in connection with an update of a policy administration system that is now essentially complete.
Together these reserve refinements amounted to a charge of $0.14 per share.
In addition charges for integration costs in the quarter totaled $0.02 per share.
In total the items I just mentioned had a net unfavorable impact of just $0.02 per share on fourth quarter results.
During the year-ago quarter market-driven and discrete items produced a net benefit of $0.07 per share.
In addition results for the year-ago quarter included expenses that we estimated to be above a baseline level for items such as bond start-up costs and business process improvements with the negative impact of about $0.14 per share about 1/2 of which was offset by a favorable catch-up in our effective tax rate for the quarter.
The outsized expenses in the year-ago quarter contributed to favorable current-quarter expense variances in some of our businesses which I will cover in a few minutes.
On Slide 4 you see a view of our ROE trend with the underlying earnings performance.
In order to show a trend that is indicative of our business results the earnings per share and ROE we displayed here are based on after-tax adjusted operating income excluding the market-driven and discrete items we've identified in our earnings releases.
In addition we've excluded the impact on ROE of foreign currency remeasurement that affects our book value through net income.
Our earnings per share on this basis grew at a compound rate of about 20% over this period roughly the same as our reported EPS and drove the ROE expansion.
While rising equity markets and the tailwinds in 2013 that I mentioned contributed to our results the main drivers of this progression were: Continued organic growth the successful integration of the Star and Edison businesses we acquired in 2011 the pension risk transfer transactions we closed in late 2012 and the contribution of the Individual Life business we acquired from Hartford in early 2013.
Turning to Slide 5.
On a GAAP basis the net loss of $427 million for the Financial Services businesses in the fourth quarter includes amounts characterized as net realized investment losses of $2.4 billion pretax comprised of the items you see here.
Foreign currency remeasurement losses primarily represent changes in the value of non-yen liabilities relating to products denominated in U.S.
dollars and other currencies on the books of our Japanese companies where the functional currency is the yen.
The yen weakened in the fourth quarter causing us to record a loss in the income statement because it would take more yen to pay off these foreign currency liabilities.
We consider this noneconomic because the liabilities are matched with assets in the currencies in which they will be settled.
The income statement loss results from the accounting geography mismatch that I mentioned.
Product-related embedded derivatives and hedging activity had a negative impact of $193 million in the quarter.
The current quarter pretax loss also included $342 million from negative mark-to-market on derivatives mainly related to asset liability duration management and largely driven by rising interest rates.
The realized losses of $573 million in the quarter for general investment portfolio activities were driven largely by bond sales.
We took advantage of market conditions to reposition our general account investments and the interest rate-driven losses on the securities we sold allowed us to monetize tax benefits.
Impairments and credit losses on investments were $48 million in the quarter.
Moving to our business results and starting with Slide 6.
Slide 6 shows our U.S.
Retirement Solutions and Investment Management businesses with a view of the results of these businesses and the adjustments we would make for market-driven and discrete items to get a view of underlying performance relative to a year ago.
Slide 7 highlights annuities.
After adjusting for market-driven and discrete items which include unlockings and experienced true-ups in each year and a software write-off in the year-ago quarter annuity results were $384 million for the quarter an increase of $128 million from a year ago.
Stripping out the impact of market-driven and discrete items as we've done on Slide 8 in the gold bars the trend of earnings from the Annuities business had outpaced our account value growth over the past year.
Account values passed the $150 billion milestone reaching $154 billion at year-end up 14% from a year ago.
The increase was mainly driven by market appreciation with gross sales for each of the past 3 quarters at just under $2.5 billion.
The rising account values drove a 16% increase in policy charges and fees compared to the year-ago quarter and have reduced our estimate of the perspective cost of guaranteed death and income benefits associated with our contracts.
In addition the improvement to our gross profits have contributed to a more favorable DAC amortization rate.
Current-quarter results also benefited from lower expenses reflecting the inclusion in the year-ago quarter of $17 million of costs that we estimated to be above a baseline level for items including business process improvements in areas such as technology and back-office functions.
Shown on Slide 9 our gross annuity sales for the quarter were $2.4 billion in line with this year's second and third quarters but down from $3.8 billion a year ago.
We regard our level of sales as an outcome rather than a target and we've taken a number of actions over the past year to adapt our products to the current environment in order to maintain appropriate return prospects and improve our risk profile.
With the introduction last February of our current living benefit feature called Highest Daily Income or HDI 2.1 we reduced the income payout rates at various age bands and eliminated the guaranteed doubling of protected withdrawal value after 12 years while leaving writer charges unchanged.
In addition we have withdrawn our x shares or bonus products we have suspended acceptance of subsequent premiums in generations of products offered before 2011 and we've implemented a cap on subsequent purchase payments on more recent HDI products.
We've also reduced the commissions we pay.
We've also taken steps to enhance our product portfolio allowing us to broaden the choices we can offer to retirement-focused clients and their advisers while diversifying our risk exposure.
We have brought to the market a product we call Prudential Defined Income or PDI which directs a client's entire investment to a multi-sector fixed income investment portfolio.
PDI provides a guaranteed lifetime income amount which is determined by applying an income payout rate based on the client's age at time of purchase to the premium the client pays.
The payout percentage grows at a contractual roll-up rate until lifetime withdrawals begin.
The product design allowed us to change both the income payout rate and the roll-up rate for new business on a monthly basis enabling us to keep pricing in sync with changing market conditions.
PDI has begun to meaningfully contribute to our sales mix accounting for about $450 million or just under 20% of gross sales for the quarter growing from about $250 million in the third quarter as more investment professionals have become familiar with the product's value proposition and additional distributors have signed on to include it in their platforms.
Slide 10 highlights Retirement.
The Retirement business reported record-high adjusted operating income of $295 million for the current quarter.
This compares to $147 million a year ago after adjusting for a $78 million benefit included in the year-ago results from the recovery under a settlement of losses we have recorded in 2007.
Excluding this recovery item earnings were up $148 million from a year ago.
Third quarter results benefited by $112 million from a greater contribution from net investment results.
This includes about $55 million of returns that we would consider above our average expectations on non-coupon asset classes.
The remainder of the increase came mainly from higher fees driven by account value growth and the greater contribution from case experience reflecting the pension risk transfer business that came on the books in late 2012.
Turning to Slide 11.
Total retirement gross deposits and sales were $9.9 billion for the current quarter compared to $43 billion a year ago which included $33.6 billion for the GM and Verizon pension risk transfer transactions.
Standalone institutional gross sales amounted to $4.1 billion in the current quarter compared to $5.6 billion a year ago excluding the GM and Verizon transactions.
Third quarter sales included $3.2 billion of stable value wrap products while the year-ago quarter included $5.3 billion of those sales.
We are beginning to see greater competition in the market for these products with a decrease in the number of wrap providers.
Full service gross deposits in sales were $5.8 billion for the quarter with 5 case sales of over $100 million including a major case win of $1.2 billion.
This compares to a total of $3.9 billion a year ago.
Net flows were positive for the quarter.
Total retirement net flows for the quarter amounted to $1.4 billion and account value stood at a record high $322.9 billion at year-end up $33 billion from a year ago.
Slide 12 highlights asset management.
The asset management business reported adjusted operating income of $209 million for the current quarter compared to $185 million a year ago.
Results for the year-ago quarter included a $41 million benefit from the sale of a real estate-related investment that you see here as a market-driven and discrete item.
The absence of this year-ago benefit led to a $32 million lower contribution in the current quarter from what we call other related revenues which encompasses incentive transaction strategic investing and commercial mortgage activities.
While most of the segment's results come from asset management fees the contribution from these activities is variable in nature since it reflects changing valuations and the timing of transaction.
The increase in earnings for the asset management business was mainly driven by higher asset management fees reflecting growth in assets under management.
The segment's assets under management amounted to $870 billion at year end up 5% from a year ago reflecting about $24 billion of net positive institutional and retail flows over the past year.
Results also benefited from lower expenses associated with asset management activities reflecting costs we incurred a year ago that we estimated to be in excess of a baseline level including those associated with the launch of the closed-end mutual fund.
Turning to Slide 13.
Here are the results of our U.S.
Individual Life and Group Insurance businesses showing the adjustments to Individual Life results for integration and transaction costs related to The Hartford acquisition and an adjustment to the group insurance results a year ago for an increase in legal reserves.
Slide 14 highlights Individual Life.
After adjusting for market-driven and discrete items Individual Life reported earnings of $165 million for the current quarter up $51 million from a year ago.
The increase was driven by the contribution of the in-force block of business we acquired from Hartford.
The business integration is well on track.
We are now benefiting from a unified distribution system drawing on Hartford's strength in financial institutions and our solid positioning in the brokerage general agency channel.
As planned we transitioned to an integrated product portfolio as of the beginning of this year and cost synergies are continuing to emerge in line with our expectations.
Mortality was favorable in comparison to our average expectations both in the current quarter for the acquired Hartford business as well as the legacy Prudential business and in the year-ago quarter.
Including reserve requirements this contributed about $30 million to current-quarter results.
Moving to Slide 15.
Individual Life sales based on annualized new business premiums amounted to $166 million for the current quarter including $69 million from the third-party distribution partners that came to us with The Hartford acquisition.
This compares to total sales of $144 million a year ago.
Guaranteed universal life sales for the quarter amounted to roughly $80 million essentially unchanged from a year ago when we did not yet include the Hartford distribution system.
We've taken actions to limit concentration in these products and to maintain appropriate returns including a series of price increases most recently this past October.
And we've implemented a cap on the amount of premium a client can invest when purchasing a contract.
These actions have contributed to the decline in our overall sales level from the first 2 quarters of 2013.
Current-quarter sales of universal life without secondary guarantees shown in the gold bars contributed $27 million to current-quarter sales up $20 million from a year ago.
This type of product has been popular among clients of the distributors who came to us with The Hartford acquisition.
And we've carried the best features of The Hartford product portfolio into our integrated product portfolio through our Prudential Founders Plus product that we launched a few weeks ago.
Slide 16 highlights group insurance.
Group insurance earnings amounted to $58 million in the current quarter compared to $8 million a year ago after adjusting for the charge to increase legal reserves.
The $50 million increase reflected improved claims experience in group life with a lower claim count in the current quarter and in group disability where we had a greater benefit from claim resolutions.
Turning to Slide 17.
Slide 17 shows the results of our International Insurance business adjusting for reserve refinements in the current quarter and for integration costs.
Slide 18 highlights our Life Planner operations.
After adjusting for market-driven and discrete items our Life Planner business reported earnings of $381 million for the quarter up $49 million from a year ago.
The increase was mainly driven by continued business growth.
On a constant dollar basis insurance revenues including premiums policy charges and fees were up by 7% from a year ago.
Foreign currency exchange rates which reflect our hedging of yen income at JPY 80 for 2013 versus JPY 85 in 2012 contributed a benefit of $11 million to earnings in comparison to a year ago.
Slide 19 highlights Gibraltar Life.
After adjusting for the items I mentioned Gibraltar Life reported earnings of $378 million for the current quarter up $53 million from a year ago.
The current quarter benefited from a contribution from investment results about $20 million greater than a year ago with the increase mainly driven by our yen-based fixed income portfolio.
Third quarter results also reflected lower expenses including additional cost savings from the Star and Edison business integrations.
With the integration process now essentially complete the $250 million of annual cost saves that we had targeted has been substantially achieved on an annualized run rate basis.
Current-quarter results for Gibraltar also benefited by $10 million in the comparison from foreign currency exchange rates.
Shown on Slide 20 International Insurance sales on a constant dollar basis were $742 million for the current quarter compared to $1.1 billion a year ago.
Our international sales pattern is affected by: Market developments; seasonality which favors the first and second quarters; and by actions we've taken such as repricings.
Gibraltar's yen-based Bank Channel Single Premium Whole Life product contributed $419 million to sales in the year-ago quarter marking the crest of a sale surge that followed market developments earlier in 2012.
In order to limit our concentration in the product and maintain appropriate returns we implemented crediting rate reductions and reduced commissions effective at the beginning of 2013.
And we recently discontinued sales of this product.
The decline in sales of this product in the current quarter compared to a year ago more than offset an overall increase of $76 million or 12% for the remainder of our international insurance product portfolio.
Moving on to Slide 21.
Life Planner sales were $314 million in the current quarter up $38 million or 14% from $276 million a year ago.
As you see in the dark blue bars more than 1/2 of the increase came from Japanese yen-based products including a retirement income product where a pending change in commission rates contributed to accelerated sales.
Sales of U.S.
dollar-denominated whole life and retirement income products shown in the gold bars are essentially flat from a year ago.
Changes in currency rates have made products that are denominated in U.S.
dollars more expensive to Japanese consumers in yen terms making yen-based products relatively more attractive.
Fourth quarter sales in our Life Planner operations outside of Japan were up $14 million from a year ago.
The increase came mainly from Brazil where we are growing our Life Planner force and from Korea.
Slide 22 presents the sales trend in Gibraltar.
Sales from Gibraltar Life were $428 million in the current quarter compared to $785 million a year ago.
Taking a look at the gold portions of the bars you can see a $344 million decline in sales through the bank channel.
This reflects a $395 million decrease in sales of the single premium yen-based product that I mentioned with the current quarter including a small amount of residual sales.
Sales of other products through banks increased by $51 million mainly driven by recurring premium death protection policy.
Sales by life consultants are down $21 million from the year-ago quarter.
Over the past year the life consultant count has declined by about 2 000 to roughly 9 300 life consultants at year end which is consistent with our expectations as we implemented minimum production requirements and other Prudential standards for the sales force that came to us with the Star and Edison acquisition.
The impact of this decline in headcount was largely offset by an increase in productivity in terms of policies sold per life consultant per month contributing to more cost effective distribution.
Sales by independent agents which are mainly in the small business market are up by $8 million from a year ago.
Slide 23 shows corporate and other.
Corporate and other operations reported a loss of $397 million for the current quarter.
This compares to a $303 million loss a year ago after adjusting for market-driven and discrete items which included charges to increase our reported liabilities for employee benefits and to write off bond issue costs.
The increase in the loss reflects higher expenses in the current quarter including nonlinear items such as compensation programs that are based on our performance for the year.
This result includes the impact of a one-time special recognition program covering our broad employee population excluding senior management.
The impact of this program amounted to $0.09 per share in the quarter.
Now I'll turn it over to Rob Falzon.
Thank you Mark.
I'd like to give you an update on some key items under the heading of Financial Strength and Flexibility.
Starting on Slide 24.
We continue to manage our insurance companies to levels of capital that we believe are consistent with AA standards.
For Prudential Insurance we manage to a 400% RBC ratio which we believe gives us some cushion against our AA objective.
We began the year with an RBC ratio of 450% a little above.
While statutory results for 2013 are not yet final we estimate that RBC for Prudential Insurance as of year-end 2013 will continue to be above 450%.
In Japan Prudential Japan as Gibraltar Life reported strong solvency margins of 757% and 980% respectively as of their most recent reporting date September 30 2013.
These are comfortably above our 600% to 700% targets and we expect that our Japanese companies will continue to report strong solvency margins relative to their targets as of the end of their current fiscal year which ends March 31 of this year.
Looking at the overall capital position for the Financial Services businesses on Slide 25.
We calculate our on-balance sheet capital capacity by comparing the statutory capital position of Prudential Insurance to our 400% RBC ratio target and then add capital capacity held at the parent company and other subsidiaries.
At the end of 2012 prior to funding the Hartford Life acquisition our on-balance sheet capital capacity was roughly $3 billion of which $1.5 billion to $2 billion was readily deployable.
During the year we funded The Hartford acquisition; declared 4 quarterly common stock dividends totaling about $800 million including a dividend of $0.53 a share in the fourth quarter that represented a 33% increase; and repurchased $750 million of common stock totaling $2.3 billion of capital deployment and returns of capital.
These capital uses were more than offset by excess capital generated within our businesses primarily from operating earnings.
The net result is that we ended the year with on-balance sheet capital capacity of about $3.5 billion including about $1.5 billion that we consider to be readily deployable consistent with where we stood at the end of the third quarter.
Turning to the cash position of the parent company.
Cash and short-term investments net of outstanding commercial paper amounted to about $4.2 billion as of year end.
The cash in excess of our targeted $1.3 billion liquidity cushion is available through repayment or in debt to fund operating needs and to redeploying over time.
As you may have seen in November we issued $1.5 billion of trust securities without bringing debt onto our balance sheet or cash into the parent company.
This transaction enhances our financial flexibility by providing a discretionary source of funds that can be accessed at any time over the next 10 years regardless of capital market conditions.
Now I'll turn it back over to John.
Thank you Rob.
Thank you Mark.
And we'd like to open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First question I have goes to the book value per share and using the adjusted metric for foreign currency it seems like it's a little flat.
And I know you've spent some time in the past talking about the sensitivities coming from the embedded derivatives portfolios but not boss [ph] at the end of the day how do we see that number growing? What would lead to that? You look at 2013 really being a record year in terms of earnings and yet book value remains flat.
Yaron it's Rob Falzon let me try to respond to that.
First let me put into perspective sort of that movement in book value.
So adjusting for the FX remeasurement as we do when we report book value the number grew year-over-year by just under 3.5%.
Now there are a couple of notable noneconomic GAAP charges that don't help in the growth of our book value.
Notably this quarter and for the year I would say that if you looked at the NPR there was a fairly dramatic decline in that from the beginning of the year to the end of the year about $2.50 a share.
If you adjust simply for that change in NPR we would have grown book value by close to 7% -- a little over 7.5% from year-end last year to year-end this year.
Furthermore as you know we paid dividends and absent having paid those dividends our growth rate and book value per share would have been close to around 10.5%.
So I think if you look at the economic book value from year-end last year to year-end this year it actually represents a very healthy growth rate.
We have very little control over GAAP accounting.
And so I think what I can hold out for you is that the NPR that sits on the balance sheet is not a very material number today although obviously that can move in different directions.
We continue to look at the growth of book value x FX remeasurement and look to net out some of these noneconomic impacts on our book value.
There are other non-GAAP measures that enter into there which would support an even higher growth than that but those are the ones that are obvious and we adjust for those economically when we evaluate that growth rate.
This is Mark.
Let me just add that as we use the term noneconomic you should be thinking that over time this will come back.
And it's hard to predict exactly when but as Rob uses the term noneconomic we sort of think of it as things that will wash out over time.
It may be over a long time but we anticipate that those things will not be biased one way or the other in the longer run.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then switching gears to the individual annuities sales do you have any target in mind regarding the new PDI product what percentage of sales you want it to be or what percentage of account value? It's a good question and the answer is not really but let me explain that.
I think one of the strategies we've had with annuities is to -- is a diversification strategy.
And if you look at what we've done and what we've filed over the past quarter we're filing a new HD products we've come out with PDI we filed for a non-guaranteed product.
So we're really going from a one-product shop to a multi-product shop and that's to diversify risk over time.
So we're very pleased with the take-up of PDI which represented about 20% of sales in the fourth quarter.
And we would expect that might grow a little bit more over time.
We'll wait and see as we gain traction and more distributors.
But it's part of a larger strategy which is to diversify the product mix over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And does that diversification add to rising interest rate risk at least on the on an accounting basis? No we don't think so.
So specifically with PDI which is a fixed income product the duration of the assets are less than the duration of the liabilities.
So when interest rates rise we'll get a better yield on assets over time.
And the present value of which should be greater than any value degradation in the bond portfolio.
So in this particular product we don't think so.
And as we go forward with non-guaranteed products and other products we think that the diversification of all these products when put together will lower the risk profile of the Annuities business overall.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First question is on Japan.
Can you comment a little bit if we peel back the onion whether or not the quarter's results being a bit weaker sequentially is related at all to margins that you're seeing on any of the single premium products and how that will compare to the traditional products? Whether you're seeing any differentiation there or are we really just seeing the seasonally higher expenses that should largely reverse as you head into 1Q? That's my first question.
Tom this is Ed Baird.
Your second option is the winning option.
There really is nothing material going on in terms of a shift in the margins of the products.
It really has to do with the seasonality and that's one of the reasons we try to deemphasize the merits of sequential comparisons and look more at the year-over-year comparison where I'm sure you've noticed the results are far more positive.
There were a number of sort of one-off positives in the third quarter and some one-off negatives in the fourth quarter which when combined made for a more dramatic comparison.
But no I don't see anything changing in terms of the margins of the products.
If anything there may be a slight strengthening taking place.
For example you mentioned the bank products.
As you know that's a product that is more susceptible particularly the single premium on its margins to what's going on in interest rates.
And that's one of the reasons we started almost a year ago to lower the crediting rate to lower the commissions and ultimately ended up shutting down the product because we weren't comfortable with the margins in that product were going to satisfy in our current environment our target ROEs.
So no there's no material change taking place it's more a matter of the seasonality quarter-to-quarter.
Research Division</strong> So Ed suffice to say and this is going to be kind of a crude way to calculate it but I just want to understand directionally if I took 3Q and 4Q added them divide it by 2 that's roughly speaking what we should expect on a trend rate here? Well I want to be careful about giving you any kind of forecasting methodology particularly something as appealingly simple as the one you've just provided.
But I do you think you're in the right direction by saying that some of what transpired in the third quarter was probably overly positive in particular areas like the non-coupon investment whereas we pointed out at that time I think the returns in that quarter were about $69 million.
In this quarter it's at $33 million.
We took those 2 define the average my hunch is an 89-er [ph].
But on that specific point probably this quarter it's closer to indicative than the third quarter.
That's just one of the factors but as you know that was a relatively material factor in terms of explaining some of the differences Q-over-Q.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then just one other question on if you can comment at all on emerging regulations whether it's non-bank SIFI G-SIFI Comm Frame and whether or not the things that are emerging on that changes your view on which businesses you want to emphasize going forward in particular variable annuities any changes or altering of views there? This as Mark.
As you know there are a lot of moving parts in the regulatory arena.
You listed the big ones.
And I would say that we have an agenda that's independent of regulation around issues like diversification that Charlie discussed and the strength of our balance sheet and enhancing some of our risk management capabilities for example.
And I believe that the things that are high on our list of priorities are also probably complementary to the kinds of things that regulators would be interested in.
But I wouldn't say that we at this point have targeted any specific products for regulatory reasons.
As I've said before we believe that we're well run that our risk and capital measurement processes are robust and will stand up to the scrutiny of the various regulators that we have to deal with.
So there's a context maybe that's a little more local but that's probably also aligned.
Next we'll go to the line of Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back to the Annuity business for a second specifically on Slide 8.
And you made a comment in your prepared remarks that the growth rate in fees has been much stronger than the growth rate in account value.
And I just wanted to drill down into that a little bit more try to understand what the underlying drivers are.
Sure.
I think part of this is a scale issue.
So in other words as we have grown the business the fees have grown and therefore the margins have grown.
I also think that we have been very focused on expenses as well.
And therefore as a result the margins have grown and our return on assets are remained I think relatively high at about a hundred about 1 0 1.
Right? 1.01%.
So that's also affected a little bit by the K factor coming down.
So I think it's partly scale I think it's partly a focus on expenses and partly focused on -- or a result of the K factor as well.
Research Division</strong> Is there another phenomenon playing here which is I believe you charge your writer fees based on the protected amount and with your highest daily feature that protected amount in theory will go up pretty consistently.
So is that playing in here as well or are those fees taken below the line to offset the cost of hedging? Suneet it's Mark.
I was going to mention that as a marginal impact that methodology applies to the relatively more recent products that we've sold.
So that may be in there somewhere but it wouldn't be among the biggest items.
As Charlie said there's operating leverage in this business.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then as we think about the operating leverage going forward and your sales -- your flows I guess for the past couple of quarters being fairly close to 0 I guess a couple hundred million should we still expect that this business will produce pretty strong earnings growth absent whatever happens in the equity market? We can't make forward-looking statements but I think what we can say is that we're extremely pleased with the profitability of that which we are selling now.
And all things being equal that should lead to growth in earnings going forward.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just my other question I guess for Mark is on the pension risk transfer business.
You've obviously done some deals over the past couple of years and I think you've funded them with essentially internal capital.
Based on your capital position today if another Verizon-type deal comes along of that size do you think you'd be able to fund that with internal capital? I'll let Rob answer that.
Yes.
Suneet it's Rob.
Yes we feel we're -- the numbers I threw in front I think we have adequate capacity in order to do similarly sized pension risk transfer or transactions on a prospective basis without going outside.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And that pertains to Verizon.
If something even bigger GM size came along would that still apply? We would have the capacity to do a similarly sized transaction yes.
Our next question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I have just a couple of quick ones.
On the group results Charlie I know in the prepared remarks that Mark indicated that mortality and morbidity experience had improved but I do believe that was a year-over-year comment.
I'm more interested in whether you think as a result of the repricing efforts that the current quarter results are more indicative of a sustainable recovery there? Yes John it's Charlie.
I would say that you need to be careful there.
That if you look at fourth quarter results and we'll talk about life and then if you want to talk about disability we can do that.
But in terms of life there's a high degree of seasonality here.
So if you look at our benefit ratio this quarter of 86.3% that's below the range of 88% to 92%.
But if you look back to 2012 we were at 86% as well.
So the fourth quarter usually is the best quarter for us and the first quarter tends to be far worse than that just by virtue of what happens.
So I'd be careful and not project forward in that fashion.
Research Division</strong> Yes I should have mentioned.
So taking into account the seasonality of the business maybe it's just an overall question as to where are you relative to your targets against sort of repricing and recovery of margins overall for this business? Let's take the quarter out of it.
Okay.
Fair enough.
I think what I'd say is we're pleased with the process but we're 2 years into a multiyear process multiyear being defined as kind of 4-ish years right? So if you look at it from that perspective I think there's a way to go but we're pleased with the process.
The only other thing I'd say is that it isn't going to be linear right? There will be ups and downs but if you look at a 4-quarter trend I think both in disability and to a certain extent life you see a positive trend.
Research Division</strong> And then Mark just a question on the corporate expenses in 4Q I think you indicated that $0.09 was essentially this one-time special risk [ph] recognition-related comp.
I'm just curious why didn't you call that out in the press release last night? I mean my sense is the stock is pressured today at least in part because of a perception that earnings power had sort of declined a bit.
I think if you make the adjustment for this item it really changes perception.
John this is John.
Let me just respond to further embellishing upon what it was.
The journey we've taken from a 10% ROE in 2010 to 14%-plus in 2013 has been made possible by a whole lot of people management but also many folks in the rank-and-file.
And that broad-based group of rank-and-file are people who do not participate in our long-term comp programs or other types of equity programs.
And so what we concluded and what the board was supportive of is we needed to do something specific to recognize the efforts of these men and women who have been so extraordinary over the course of this journey.
That prompted us to do an accrual in the fourth quarter.
And it also -- and the order of magnitude of that as Mark referenced is around $0.09.
The specifics of that actually haven't even been announced to the employees themselves so we're a little bashful about how much we say about that but we concluded we should make a reference to that today.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And like I said I'm certainly not questioning whether it's deserved or not.
Your results over the last couple of years have been terrific.
I'm just trying to understand why it wasn't necessarily called out.
Because again I just think it changes the perception of your quarterly results overall.
This is Mark.
I think it does in that respect particularly relative to headlines and we appreciate those comments.
We're just in a situation where we have a little more communication that we need to work through and we're in that process but your point is well taken.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And last one real quick for Ed just -- and I may have these numbers wrong.
If I exclude the bank channel and maybe that's the problem I shouldn't exclude the whole bank channel for Gibraltar it looks like sales on a year-over-year basis fell.
Am I looking at that right or should I not be excluding the whole bank channel? No you're absolutely right John.
First you can do it in a 2-step process.
One exclude the bank for the reasons we discussed which is that we shut off the single premium yen product for the reasons of the margins that we talked about.
And unfortunately even with that when you cut that out the bank sales went up because they shifted over to the recurring premium.
So if you cut out and I think this is maybe inferrable somewhat from I don't know what slide page -- is it Slide 22? What you'll see is that part of the sales that have been going to the lower-margin single premium shifted over to the higher-margin recurring premium whole life so that's the first step.
The second step is exactly as you've said to look at the purer Life Consultant business.
And it's completely appropriate to drill down as you're starting to because if you look at the service number the drop in sales is around 18% or 19%.
But we actually feel pretty good about that because -- excuse me the drop in the sales is more like 9% or 10% and that's good because the headcount dropped by around 18% or 19%.
In other words what we've got is an 18% drop in headcount only about half that drop about 9% in sales.
And the reason it didn't drop as much is because the productivity has gone up by about 13% which is exactly what we're after.
This is a model you recall we followed with Kyoei so successful 10 years ago it's the same model we're following here.
We will continue to put in place mechanisms that require people to produce at the level that we want.
And until then you'll see drops in headcount.
I would suggest that we may be approaching that stability point because this is a quarter in which sequentially we roughly stabilized and had a slight increase in headcount.
And our next question comes from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Mark on the non-bank SIFI topic would you agree that the insurers are gaining traction no argument that the capital requirements of insurers were different from the banks and when we might ultimately get some clarity on that issue? Well on the question on when we may get clarity I'd say it's very much work in process and I wouldn't forecast that.
I have felt all along that the conversations around capital have generally been constructive.
And I do think that the insurance industry is at least being listened to and we continue to believe that when the dust settles we will have a capital regime that works.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Switching gears to International do you get the sense here that we might begin to see a rebound in International sales given that the bank sales channel has likely bottomed here? Let me break that down into a couple of pieces for your.
The Life Planner sales as you know have continued to grow very steadily throughout this period.
Getting growth in the low-double digits in spite of the fact that you get a lower growth rate on the headcount that's been a trend that's been going on for some years now and I have no reason to believe there'll be a shift there.
The trend on the Life Consultant is exactly as we just reviewed.
What we're seeing is a flat to in this quarter slight drop in sales but that's the result of a significant drop in the headcount that's being offset partially in some cases fully by a steady improvement in productivity.
We'll see that trend stabilize.
And at some point I would be hopeful that we will experience exactly what we experienced with Kyoei which has been stable higher producing therefore a higher-profit producing distribution system in Life Consultant.
So those 2 trends I think are fairly stable and somewhat predictable.
The bank channel is the one that's unpredictable.
I think we'll continue to experience volatility there as an ongoing feature because we're not targeting revenue growth there we're targeting bottom line growth.
And that distribution system is more susceptible to the -- responding to competitors.
So we will continue to do the kind of thing we've done it this past year.
Last year we were comfortable.
I mentioned last year -- excuse me in 2012 we were comfortable with the margins we were getting in the beginning with the single premium.
As the competitor actions and the market movements made that less profitable we then took actions to correct that.
We're quite willing to absorb the reduction in sales in order to preserve our profitability.
Our next question comes from the line of Seth Weiss with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Last quarter you commented that capital planning will be part of the supervisory process with the Fed.
In that light could you just describe what conversation if any you had with the Federal Reserve prior to executing the share repurchase this quarter? We're not going to comment on any Prudential-specific regulatory conversations or issues.
Again we've commented numerous times on our general views on capital regime and the kind of issues we think are important and I'm happy to talk about that but we're not going to comment on our specific relationship with the Fed.
And we have time for one final question and that will be from the line of Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> With the pension closeouts have you seen the pipeline increase as plan funded statuses improved? And I guess related to that what do you think may be the biggest factor holding back more jumbo transactions from occurring right now? Erik this is Charlie.
I think I would divide the market into 3 parts.
And the first part is really 0 to $2 billion.
And there that's kind of the cash market.
And we've seen that increase slightly over the past year.
Now that's a very competitive market; there are lots of people who play in that market.
But we've seen slightly more transactions than we have in the past in 2013 and we have no reason to think that that will slow down.
The second part will be sort of the $2 billion to $4 billion range so that's what we call the mid-cap range and there's definitely more activity in this range defined as a lot more conversations taking place with clients and a lot more consultant activity.
This is more -- it could be a cash market it could be an in-kind market but there are a limited number of competitors in this market or a more limited number of competitors.
But there are more conversations taking place.
And then you have the jumbo market which we would define as $4 billion and up.
And we're having a lot of conversations there.
I'd say in many ways the same conversations we've been having for the past 1 year 1.5 years with a variety of different clients.
But as you correctly point out with funding ratios having increased substantially this past year -- average funding ratios for corporations are now somewhere in the 90s -- the intensity and specificity of some of those conversations have gotten higher or have increased.
So again these will be episodic there.
They take a long time to do.
To your point there are a lot of constituencies that have to agree to this so it has to go through HR it has to go through the board it has go through senior management.
So they're a long time in planning.
They also take time in planning in terms of repositioning of the portfolios.
But there are transactions which we are talking to a variety of planned sponsors about and they will be episodic but we think over time some of them will occur.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful color.
And maybe just if I could just ask one more on just the International business.
I guess how do you think about your current businesses and strategies in faster growth international markets? You would I guess have to include Brazil and Malaysia? And kind of what's your strategy for investing in these businesses and when do you believe they could become a meaningful contributor to results? Let me break that down for you into a couple of timeframes.
We continue to have tremendous growth out of our existing businesses as we just reviewed in particular Japan and secondarily would be Korea.
If you look out more in the medium term I'd bring up as an example Brazil which you mentioned.
So let me provide you a little bit of specifics there.
In fact of the -- if you look at the chart of the $14 million in growth year-over-year that came out of the Other countries $10 million of that $14 million came out of Brazil.
And in sales I'm talking about excuse me.
I'll focus on sales and then we'll talk a little bit about profitability after that because sales obviously are the primary leading indicator of this.
So that puts them up quarter-over-quarter almost 60%.
And that quarter is not an anomaly.
Brazil for the year is up around 60%.
What's particularly encouraging about that is it's coming from all 3 of the healthy drivers so the headcount is up around 35% and the rest of that growth is attributed to average premium and productivity.
So last year we saw a growth of roughly from 600 to almost 800 in the number of life planners.
They have now broken into that range where they're covering their fixed costs and they're now starting to produce a small profit.
So in the immediate future I would not see them materially contributing to AOI.
But if you extrapolate out into sort of a mid-range term in the 3 to 5 year I can see them starting to be a material contributor to the profitability.
And I think that is the kind of growth that will be sustainable for a very long time.
It's an enormous market with tremendous intrinsic secular growth that's available to it and we have an extraordinary position in that marketplace.
And then in the long term would be markets like the Malaysia one that we pointed out to you places like China and India but I would position them to be somewhat further out on the spectrum.
But what it gives us and what our plan is is to have a steady sort of 3-staged growth where we get the profit coming out of our significant mature markets we get some kicking in in that midterm range and then others that hold potential more in mid-term long-term future.
That's the strategy that we employ as we look at the markets.
And ladies and gentlemen today's conference call will be available for replay after 1:30 p.m.
until midnight February 13.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system by dialing (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 314706.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the first quarter 2014 earnings teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Eric Durant.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Cynthia.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us.
Representing Prudential on today's call are John Strangfeld CEO; Mark Grier Vice Chairman; Charlie Lowrey Head of International Businesses; Steve Pelletier Head of Domestic Businesses; Rob Falzon Chief Financial Officer; Rob Axel Controller and Principal Accounting Officer.
In order to help you to understand Prudential Financial we will make some forward-looking statements in the following presentation.
It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today.
Additional information regarding factors that could cause such a difference appears in the section titled Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures of our earnings press release for the first quarter of 2014 which can be found on our website at www.investor.prudential.com.
In addition this presentation may include references to adjusted operating income or to earnings per share or EPS or return on equity or ROE which are determined based on adjusted operating income.
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services businesses that excludes certain items.
Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP and the excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations.
For a reconciliation of adjusted operating income to the comparable GAAP measure please see our earnings press release on our website.
Additional historical information relating to the company's financial performance is also located on our website.
I'll forego the repeat.
On to John.
Thank you Eric.
Good morning everyone thanks for joining us.
And we'd like to acknowledge also today we have Charlie Lowrey in a different role as Head of International and we welcome Steve Pelletier in his new role as head of the U.S.
Before I hand it over Mark and Rob for more specifics I'd like to kick things off with some macro comments.
We are very pleased with the results for the first quarter and we believe we're off to a good start to achieve our goals for 2014.
Our annuities retirement and asset management businesses have benefited from sustained growth and account values of asset under management.
Returns and risk profile in our annuities operation continue to migrate towards our objectives for this business as the sustained period of favorable equity markets and a gradual shift in the composition of our block have driven improvement.
We're very comfortable with the risk profile as it stands today and we're also comfortable with the expected profitability of the products that we are selling.
Our Retirement business had its best ever quarter.
Outstanding results were driven by improved investment spreads in both Institutional Investment Products and Full Service retirement even excluding a higher than expected contribution from non-component investments.
Higher fees also contributed to earnings growth this quarter.
And although we recorded no pension risk transfer transactions this quarter we continue to believe that PRT is an attractive opportunity that will develop further over time.
Asset Management achieved its growth in earnings entirely on the strength of growth in asset management fees reflecting growth in assets under management.
Other related revenue was down slightly from a year ago and contributed less than 20% of adjusted operating income for the quarter.
So as assets management earnings have increased we believe it's quality of earnings have improved as well.
In our domestic insurance operations we see underlying improvement even though adjusted operating income is lower than a year ago.
After 6 consecutive quarters of mortality more favorable than expected individual insurance had less favorable experience this quarter.
Our integration of Hartford continues to progress well and our distribution capabilities are broader and deeper than before as a result.
We believe our product portfolio now fully integrated is well diversified and poised to achieve appropriate returns.
Lower earnings in Group Insurance reflected a less favorable result to disability attributable to an adverse fluctuation in claims.
Disability remains a work in progress and while the business has improved its improvement will not be linear.
Getting this business right will take more time but we are confident we will get there.
Finally International Insurance excluding the few significant items Mark will review with you recorded modestly higher earnings with hindrance from currency translation.
The Life Planner earnings continue to benefit from business growth but the benefit in that growth was partially offset by less favorable mortality and foreign currency translation.
The business itself is still humming along producing very attractive returns.
Gibraltar's results reflected lower expenses as well as modest business growth.
Gibraltar has now completed the integration of Star and Edison and the expense savings we plan for are now in the till.
Within Gibraltar's captive agency system we've raised performance standards and the sales productivity of our life consultants is now in line with that of Gibraltar's agents prior to the acquisition of Star and Edison.
Over time the number of life consultants will stabilize and then grow and that will give the business a boost.
So overall we feel very good about our quarter and where we're going.
And with that I'll turn it over to Mark.
Mark over to you.
Thanks John.
Good morning good afternoon or good evening.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
I'll take you through our results for the quarter and then I'll turn it over to Rob Falzon who will cover our capital and liquidity picture.
So starting with Slide 2 I'll begin with an overview of our financial results for the quarter.
On a reported basis common stock earnings per share amounted to $2.40 for the first quarter based on after-tax adjusted operating income of the Financial Services businesses.
This compares to EPS of $2.27 a year ago.
After adjusting for market-driven and discrete items in both the current quarter and the year-ago quarter EPS was up 16% amounting to $2.46 this quarter compared to $2.12.
On that basis pretax earnings for our operating divisions increased by 17% for the quarter.
This is largely the result of 3 things.
First a greater contribution from investment results reflecting exceptionally strong current quarter returns from non-coupon investments including our Fosun venture as well as actions we've taken to reposition the portfolios for our pension risk transfer business and Prudential retirement.
Secondly higher fees driven by growth and account values and assets under management in our annuities retirement and asset management businesses.
And third continued growth of our International Insurance business which also benefited from lower expenses.
On a GAAP basis we reported net income of $1.2 billion for the current quarter compared to a loss of $735 million a year ago.
The loss in the year-ago quarter reflected the accounting impact of foreign currency remeasurement of non-yen liabilities on the books of our Japanese insurance company driven by a weakening yen.
In the current quarter the impact from this remeasurement was less significant because the yen was relatively stable in relation to the U.S.
dollar and to other non-yen currencies in which we offer insurance products in Japan.
The comparison of book value per share excluding accumulated other comprehensive income or AOCI is affected by the accounting presentation mismatch from asset liability changes driven by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
The impact of these fluctuations on non-yen liabilities of our Japanese insurance companies runs through the income statement while the offsetting impact on the corresponding assets which are currency-matched with the liabilities is included in AOCI rather than in net income.
After adjusting the numbers to remove the impact of this mismatch book value per share is $61.74 at the end of the first quarter up $1.75 from year end after payment of a quarterly dividend of $0.53 per share.
As we've told you we also evaluate our ROE performance after adjusting for this accounting presentation mismatch which benefited our reported ROE by reducing the denominator.
After removing this benefit along with the impact on results for market-driven and discrete items our annualized ROE for the first quarter would be about 16% reflecting continued solid business performance with a tailwind from non-coupon investment results.
Slide 3 presents a rundown of market-driven and discrete items included in our results for the quarter.
In the Annuities business we strengthened our reserves for guaranteed minimum debt and income benefits and adjusted DAC mainly due to a decline in interest rates from year end and resulting in a charge of $0.03 per share.
In Individual Life we absorbed integration costs of about $0.01 per share related to the Hartford Life acquisition.
And in our International Insurance Life Planner business we recorded refinements to reserves and related items mainly in Korea amounting to a charge of $0.02 per share.
In total the items I just mentioned had a net unfavorable impact of $0.06 per share on first quarter results.
During the year-ago quarter market-driven and discrete items produced a net benefit of $0.15 per share mainly driven by a favorable reserve and DAC update in the Annuities business and a gain in Gibraltar Life from the sale of our remaining indirect investment in China Pacific Group.
Slide 4 shows net realized gains and losses.
On a GAAP basis our net income of $1.2 billion includes the items you see here which were essentially offsetting in the current quarter.
Product-related embedded derivatives and hedging activities had a negative impact of $657 million driven by mark-to-market on our GAAP liabilities for variable annuity living benefits reflecting the decline in interest rates in the quarter.
Going the other way mark-to-market on derivatives mainly related to asset liability duration management resulted in a $275 million pretax gain also largely driven by the decline in interest rates.
General portfolio activities resulted in net pretax gains of $180 million and impairments and credit losses on investments were $37 million for the quarter.
As I mentioned earlier foreign currency remeasurement had a relatively modest impact for the quarter resulting in a pretax gain of $231 million.
Moving down to our business results.
I'll start with our U.S.
Retirement Solutions and Investment Management businesses shown on Slide 5.
Here's a view of the results of these businesses and the adjustments we would make for market-driven and discrete items to get a view of underlying performance relative to a year ago.
Slide 6 highlights Individual Annuities.
After adjusting from reserve and DAC updates which were mainly driven by a decline in interest rates in the current quarter and favorable equity market performance relative to our assumptions a year ago Annuities results were $409 million for the quarter an increase of $99 million from a year ago.
Slide 7 presents a view of the earnings trend for the Annuities business where the results reflected in the gold bars exclude the impact of market-driven and discrete items.
Most of our earnings in the Annuities business come from base contract charges linked to daily account values.
On a point-to-point basis as you see here account values of $155 billion at the end of the first quarter are up 9% from a year ago mainly driven by market appreciation.
However the increase in average account values compared to the year-ago quarter was 11% outstripping the point-to-point increase and driving growth of $71 million or 12% in policy charges and fee income.
Our results have also benefited from a reduced drag from charges for benefit costs and base amortization as the rising account values have lowered the perspective costs of guaranteed death and income benefits associated with our contracts and the improvements to our gross profits have contributed to a more favorable back amortization rate.
Slide 8 shows annuity sales.
Our gross annuity sales for the quarter were $2.3 billion in line with the past few quarters but down from $4.2 billion a year ago.
In late February of last year we implemented a number of changes to our highest daily income product including reduction of income payout rates at various age bands and elimination of the guaranteed doubling of protected withdrawal value after 12 years while leaving the writer charges unchanged.
Nearly all of the sales in the year-ago quarter were of the earlier version of the product including some level of accelerated purchases in advance of the product change.
We continue to take actions to adopt our products in order to maintain appropriate return prospects and improve our risk profile.
As part of this process we've taken steps to enhance our product portfolio allowing us to broaden the choices we can offer to retirement-focused clients and their advisers while diversifying our risk exposure.
Sales of our Prudential Defined Income or PDI product shown in the light blue bars have begun to meaningfully contribute to our sales mix accounting for about $460 million or roughly 20% of gross sales for the quarter bringing cumulative PDI sales to over $1.2 billion.
PDI directs a client's entire investment to a separate account fixed income portfolio which we manage and which provides a guaranteed lifetime income amount.
This income level is scaled relative to the premium paid based on the client's age at purchase.
The payout percentage grows at a contractual roll-up rate until lifetime withdrawals begin.
One of the key features of PDI from a risk management and return perspective is our ability built into the product design to change both the income payout rate and the roll-up rate for new business on a monthly basis enabling us to keep pricing in sync with changing market conditions.
We've also built this pricing flexibility into the current generation of our highest daily living benefit feature called HDI 3.0 which we introduced in February of this year.
HDI 3.0 allows us to change the roll-up rate for the protected value that determines the basis for lifetime income and to change the withdrawal percentages for various age bands as often as monthly for new business.
The new product also requires allocation of 10% of each purchase payment to a general account fixed bucket called a secure value account that helps provide account value stability through changing market conditions.
Shown on Slide 9 the Retirement business reported record-high adjusted operating income of $364 million for the current quarter an increase of $136 million from a year ago.
Current quarter results benefited by $123 million from a greater contribution from net investment results.
This includes about $80 million of returns that we would consider above our average expectations on non-coupon asset classes.
The exceptionally high returns on these asset classes in the current quarter which also benefited the results of several other businesses were largely driven by strong performance from private equity investment funds.
Net investment results and retirement also benefited by approximately $30 million from actions we've taken to reposition the portfolios supporting our pension risk transfer business.
The remainder of the increase in Retirement results came mainly from higher fees driven by account value growth.
Turning to Slide 10.
Total retirement gross deposits and sales were $10.3 billion for the current quarter compared to $9.5 billion a year ago.
Full service gross deposits and sales were $8.6 billion for the quarter with 5 case sales of over $100 million including a major case win of $2.6 billion.
This compares to total of $5.7 billion a year ago.
We are not seeing major changes in the Full Service market and attractive large case opportunities are lumpy.
Full service net flows amounted to $2.6 billion for the quarter.
Standalone institutional gross sales were $1.7 billion in the current quarter compared to $3.8 billion a year ago.
Current quarter sales included $1.4 billion of stable value rep products while the year-ago quarter included $3.7 billion of those products sales.
Greater competition is emerging in the market for these products with an increase in the number of rep providers.
Our standalone institutional business had net outflows of $1.3 billion for the quarter including benefit payments on pension risk transfer cases and withdrawals by stable value rep clients seeking provider diversification.
Total retirement net flows for the current quarter amounted to $1.3 billion and account value stood at a record high $327.8 billion at the end of the quarter up $28 billion from a year ago.
Slide 11 highlights the Asset Management business.
The Asset Management business reported adjusted operating income of $193 million for the current quarter compared to $169 million a year ago.
The $24 million increase in earnings was mainly driven by higher asset management fees reflecting growth in assets under management.
The segment's assets under management amounted to $891 billion at the end of the first quarter up 6% from a year ago reflecting market appreciation together with about $17 billion of institutional and retail net flows over the past year.
On Slide 12 you see the results of our U.S.
Individual Life and Group Insurance businesses showing the adjustments to Individual Life results for integration costs related to the Hartford acquisition.
Slide 13 highlights Individual Life.
After adjusting for integration costs Individual Life reported earnings of $133 million for the current quarter compared to $145 million a year ago.
The decrease in earnings was driven by less favorable claims experience in the current quarter.
The contribution the current quarter results for mortality experience together with reserve updates was about $20 million less favorable than our average expectations.
This compares to a mortality contribution about $15 million more favorable than our average expectations in the year-ago quarter.
The impact of less favorable claims experience in the current quarter was partly offset by a greater contribution from net investment results including about $15 million of returns that we would consider above our average expectation on non-coupon asset classes.
Turning to Slide 14.
Individual Life sales based on annualized new business premiums amounted to $122 million for the current quarter.
This compares to total sales of $216 million a year ago.
The decrease was mainly driven by an $88 million decline in sales of guaranteed universal life insurance products shown in the dark blue bars.
We've taken actions over the past year to limit concentration in these products and to maintain appropriate returns including a series of price increases.
In addition we discontinued substantially all sales of the legacy Hartford products at the beginning of this year as we introduced our integrated Individual Life product portfolio representing a major milestone in the business integration which remains well on track.
As we expected these changes caused some acceleration of sales of the legacy products in the second half of last year.
Term insurance sales in the light blue bars were down $8 million from a year ago reflecting price reductions by several competitors.
Sales of universal life without secondary guarantees shown in the gold bars contributed $25 million or about 20% of our overall sales for the current quarter.
These products which offer relatively low protection costs and are more investment growth oriented than secondary guarantee universal life have been popular among clients and the distributers who came to us with the Hartford acquisition.
We've incorporated the best features of the Hartford product and the Prudential founders plus product included in our integrated product portfolio allowing us to broaden the choices we can offer to life insurance customers while diversifying our risks.
Shown on Slide 15 Group Insurance earnings amounted to $6 million in the current quarter compared to $9 million a year ago.
The unfavorable impact on results of an adverse fluctuation in Group Disability claims experience and higher expenses at a year ago was largely offset by a greater contribution from net investment results including about $15 million of current quarter returns that we would consider above our average expectations on non-coupon asset classes.
Slide 16 shows Group Insurance sales trends.
Most of our group insurance sales are recorded in the first quarter based on calendar year effective dates.
Group insurance sales based on annualized new business premiums amounted to $170 million in the current quarter down from $193 million a year ago.
The sales decline reflects our focus on restoring appropriate returns in this business.
Turning to the International Insurance division on Slide 17.
Here are the results of our International Insurance business.
Adjusting for the current quarter refinements of reserves and related items in the Life Planner business and for the China Pacific gain and Star/Edison integration costs in Gibraltar Life a year ago.
Slide 18 highlights the Life Planner operations.
After adjusting for the charges I mentioned our Life Planner business reported earnings of $435 million for the quarter up $13 million from a year ago.
Results continue to benefit from sustained business growth.
On a constant dollar basis insurance revenues including premiums policy charges and fees were up 6% from a year ago.
The benefit from business growth was partly offset by less favorable claims experienced including reserves update in comparison to a strong year-ago quarter.
We estimate that the negative impact on the comparison and results was about $15 million.
In addition foreign currency exchange rates which reflect our hedging of yen income at JPY 82 this year versus JPY 80 last year had a negative impact of $6 million on earnings in comparison to a year ago.
Slide 19 highlights Gibraltar Life.
Gibraltar Life reported earnings of $418 million for the current quarter up $26 million from a year ago after adjusting for the items I mentioned.
The current quarter benefited from business growth and from lower expenses than a year ago including some nonlinear items such as employee benefit costs.
Both the current quarter and the year-ago quarter benefited from strong investment results with income from non-coupon asset classes contributing about $50 million to results in each period.
Foreign currency exchange rates had a negative impact of $9 million in the comparison of Gibraltar's results to a year ago.
Slide 20 shows the International Insurance sales trend.
International Insurance sales on a constant dollar basis were $772 million for the current quarter compared to $841 million a year ago.
Market developments along with repricings and other actions taken by us and by our competitors have produced volatility on our quarterly sales results.
The impact of these factors over the past 2 years has been especially dramatic and distorts quarter-over-quarter comparison.
Over that period our international sales pattern has been affected by changes in the Japanese tax code resulting in a surge of business market sales for our cancer whole life product in early 2012; by repricing of our U.S.
dollar products in mid-2012 along with weakening of the yen in relation to the U.S.
dollar since then which made our U.S.
dollar products more expensive in yen terms to Japanese consumers; by product repricings by us and our competitors in reaction to changes in Japanese statutory reserve interest rates effective of April 2013 which accelerated sales of some of our products into the early part of last year; and also by opportunistic sales of over $1 billion of a yen-based single premium bank channel product at Gibraltar followed by the discontinuation of that product late last year as we increased emphasis on recurring premium death protection products.
The comparison of overall first quarter international sales to a year ago was most significantly affected by the discontinued single premium bank channel products and going back 2 years ago by that product along with cancer whole life.
If you adjust first quarter sales to exclude cancer whole life shown in the light blue bars and the discontinued product shown in the brown bars current quarter sales are up 5% from a year ago and increased at a compound growth rate at 6% from 2 years ago.
Slide 21 shows Life Planner sales.
Life Planner sales were $369 million in the current quarter compared to $365 million a year ago.
Life Planner sales are typically strongest in the first quarter which is the end of the Japanese fiscal year driving sales of some products that are popular in the business market and March is the end -- is the close of the sales conference qualification period at Prudential of Japan.
Sales in Japan for the current quarter amounted to $270 million down slightly from a year ago.
The comparison of current quarter sales to a year ago is affected by purchases in advance of a repricing of a number of our Japanese yen-based products in April of last year and by the weakening of the Japanese yen over the past year which makes our U.S.
dollar products more expensive in yen terms to Japanese consumers.
Sales outside of Japan were up by $8 million or 9% from a year ago.
Looking back over 2 years the comparison of first quarter sales is most significantly affected by sales of our cancer whole life product in advance of a 2012 tax law change in Japan that made the product less attractive in the business market and by accelerated purchases of our U.S.
dollar products in advance of a June 2012 repricing at Prudential of Japan.
Slide 22 presents the Gibraltar Life sales trend.
Sales from Gibraltar Life were $403 million in the current quarter compared to $476 million a year ago.
Taking a look at Gibraltar's sales by distribution channel you can see a $63 million decline in first quarter sales through the bank channel shown in the gold bars compared to a year ago when the discontinued single premium product that I mentioned contributed sales of $107 million.
Sales of other products through the bank channel increased by $44 million from a year ago driven by the recurring premium death protection products that we are emphasizing.
Sales through independent agents shown in the light blue bars are up by $20 million from a year ago mainly driven by retirement and investment focused products in the business market.
Sales by life consultants in the dark blue bars are down $30 million from the year-ago quarter.
Similar to Japanese Life Planner sales the comparison is affected by accelerated purchases of a number of our Japanese yen-based products in advance of our repricing in April of last year.
In addition our Life Consultant count has declined by about 1 450 or 14% from a year ago as we implemented minimum production requirements and other Prudential standards for the sales force that came to us with the Star and Edison acquisition.
Looking back 2 years the comparison of first quarter sales is most significantly affected by the discontinued single premium bank channel products and by our active management of the sales force.
Current quarter Life Consultant sales are at roughly the same level as 2 years ago but with about 30% fewer agents now onboard as we've taken steps to build a more cost effective and productive proprietary distribution channel.
On Slide 23 Corporate and Other operations reported a loss of $342 million for the current quarter.
This compares to a $303 million loss a year ago after adjusting for a write-off of bond issue costs.
The increase in the loss reflects higher expenses in the current quarter including nonlinear items such as corporate advertising and a lower pension credit.
The benefit of lower interest expense reflecting our refinancing of high coupon debt last year was a partial offset.
And now I'll turn it over to Rob Falzon.
Thanks Mark.
I'll provide an update on some key items under the heading of financial strength and flexibility with just a few slides.
Starting on Slide 24.
We continue to manage our insurance companies to levels of capital that we believe are consistent with AA standards.
As of year end Prudential Insurance reported an RBC ratio of 456% with total adjusted capital or TAC of $13.9 billion.
While we don't perform a quarterly bottoms up RBC calculation we estimate that our RBC ratio as of the end of the first quarter has not changed materially since year end and is above our 400% target which we believe gives us a cushion against our AA objective.
In Japan Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar Life reported strong solvency margins of 772% and 937% respectively as of their most recent reporting date which is December 31 2013.
These are comfortably above their 600% to 700% targets.
Our Japanese insurance companies will soon report solvency margins as of their March 31 fiscal year end.
And while the calculations are not yet final we expect them to continue to be in a strong position relative to their targets.
Looking now at the overall capital position for the Financial Services businesses on Slide 25.
We calculate our on-balance sheet capital capacity by comparing the statutory capital position of Prudential Insurance to our 400% RBC ratio target and then add capital capacity held at the parent company and at other subsidiaries.
As of year end we estimated that our on balance sheet capital capacity was about $3.5 billion including about $1.5 billion that we consider readily deployable.
Taking into account our results for the quarter our quarterly common stock dividend of $0.53 a share or about $250 million and share repurchases also of about $250 million we estimate our on balance sheet capital capacity was over $4 billion at the end of the first quarter.
A portion of that we consider to be readily deployable has not changed materially since year end.
Turning to the cash position of the parent company.
Cash and short-term investments net of outstanding commercial paper amounted to $3.2 billion as of the end of the first quarter.
The cash in excess of our targeted $1.3 billion liquidity cushion is available to repay maturing debt to fund operating needs and to redeploy over time.
Now I'll turn it back over to John.
Great.
Thank you Rob.
Thank you Mark.
And with that we'd like to open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A question for Mark.
Met on their call last week talked about regulators getting a better understanding of separate accounts and that really regardless of what happens with the Collins Amendment it's possible for them to either not assess capital charges or at least not assess significant capital charges for the nonguaranteed portion of separate accounts.
So wondering if that's the message or sense that you guys are getting as well.
Yes it is.
And I think I'd make an even broader statement about the insight that regulators are gaining into the whole solvency model and capital world of insurance.
The issue around nonguaranteed separate accounts is specific and relates to the line of sight to the capital of the company and I think that point as well as others are being discussed constructively and often.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a question for John.
You've talked about the 13% to 14% ROE target is sort of I believe sort of a through-the-cycle return so there will be periods where you're clearly above that as we've seen more recently in periods that are below.
But how should we think about -- what's a reasonable sort of standard deviation from this average? Well I guess the way I look at it Chris is it's less about an average and more about something we think we can achieve through the cycle absent a tail event.
So maybe just to put in a little more context we've talked about this '13 and '14 aspiration since 2010.
Obviously it's no longer a goal it's reality.
And in fact our run rate in '13 and again in Q1 of '14 is better than that.
And we think this is something -- we don't think of it as an average we'd rather think it was something we think we can achieve through the cycle absent as I say tail-type events.
And by maintaining that through the cycle represents superior performance relative to peers and relative I think to most balance-sheet-oriented financial institution.
So we're sticking with the '13 '14.
We think its superior it's not a once-and-done phenomena it's a focus on sustainability over time.
And that's how we're thinking about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you had some leadership changes take place post Ed's departure earlier in April.
Just wondering if there's anything we should take from that in terms of potential changes in strategy or if Charlie or Steve if they've kind of assessed their businesses if there's any incremental changes? Well I'll just offer 1 or 2 macro comments on this.
This is very classic Pru of carefully thought through orderly change planned over a long period of time.
So you've seen nothing in this transition that's reflective of anything other than the intense focus that we always apply to talent management and to success in planning.
And we're feeling very very good about these transitions.
Clearly any new leader in a role takes a fresh look at things and that's the way to think about it.
But we're feeling very good about where we are and where we're headed in the I think quality continuity and stability in the leadership team.
Our next question comes from the line of Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First question on Gibraltar.
You've done a great job of improving the consultant productivity.
So are they still seeing those relatively large declines in the number of consultants down another 5% 6% on a sequential basis? I know you mentioned in your comments that you expect that number to eventually stabilize and then grow.
Hoping we can get some color on when that's likely to happen.
Sure Nigel.
This is Charlie.
So let's just -- let me take that in a couple of different ways.
So the Life Consultant account was down about 14% year-over-year.
And that really does reflect as you said a continuation of the active management of the Star and Edison sales force enforcing validation requirements and doing a variety of other things.
But a couple of comments on that: The second derivative of the decrease is derivating in other words is decreasing.
In other words the rate of decrease is decreasing.
So this quarter we went down by 14%.
Last quarter we went down by 18% and the quarter before that we went down by 20%.
So it is coming down.
Now in terms of productivity we're back up to where we were before we acquired Star and Edison.
So we're back up at sort of 3.5 policies per month level.
So productivity is where it was.
And so I think what you'll see going forward what you'd expect is the percent change in sales will reflect now the percent change in the Life Consultant account going forward.
And that's exactly what we see is happening and that's exactly what happened with TOA.
So if we go back about a decade to TOA TOA took 4 years to actively manage their sales force to where wanted it to be.
And the sales force was reduced over that period of time by roughly 40% rough justice.
Now we're 3 years into the Star/Edison process and we're down rough justice about 30%.
So we have a ways to go.
We're entering into the bottoming-out phase.
But I think you'll probably see that later this year or the beginning of next year somewhere in that time frame as we finalize the process.
But this is a sort of textbook -- sort of what we did with TOA and we're doing exactly the same thing here.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful.
Second question on group insurance being that the repricing tools several years but results don't seem to be getting better.
Is perhaps the price increases that you've been pushing through have been insufficient and that you need another round of rate hike beyond your original expectations or is it more just a matter of timing that the actions that you take are just going to take more time to be evident in the results? Nigel this is Steve Pelletier.
The results in group insurance this quarter are driven purely in the disability business and purely through claim severity in the disability business.
When we look at what we've done over the past couple of years and are continuing to do in the business in terms of repricing in terms of lapsation of unprofitable business in terms of claims incidents and in terms of effectiveness of managing claims we don't see any reason to lack confidence in the path of recovery that the business is on.
Having said that as Charlie has emphasized in the past that path is not going to be a linear one.
It can have ups and downs as we saw this quarter in relation to claim severity.
But we think that the price increases we've engineered in the past couple of years and that we continue to increase are at the appropriate level.
Our next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So first a question on the stable value business.
Your sales flows slowed down there.
And you mentioned a little bit you're seeing a little bit more competition.
So just if you could elaborate on that and whether you're seeing competition from public companies mutuals? And then secondly on FSA very strong flows during the large case I think about $2.6 billion in there.
But maybe talk about competitive trends in that market as well and what your view is in terms of pricing conditions in the Full Service market.
Jimmy Steve again.
I will take your questions in kind of reverse order the points you mentioned.
First of all Full Service.
No we don't see any change in our view of competitive dynamics in the marketplace or in our business strategy in relation to those dynamics.
We're obviously pleased by the first quarter sales and flows.
However I'd emphasize that that contained one very large case a $2.6 billion case a public entity on the West Coast.
We said before that we're selective in relation to these large cases.
Selective does not mean we can't compete though when we like the characteristics of the case as we did in this instance.
But I don't think that's anything that we can count on going forward.
As Mark said they are inherently lumpy.
In IOSD you are seeing a slowing of sales and that's fully expected on our part.
Our sales performance the last few years in the business reflected our stepping into a void in the marketplace.
And now the competitive circumstances are changing.
Having grown the book the way we did we are now facing concentration limits at some counterparties as we would expect to.
Also as you mentioned new competition that is coming Jimmy both from banks and insurance companies.
So I'd emphasize that there's a range of new competitors in that market.
As of right now we have not seen the entrance of that new competition and new capacity depress margins in the market.
But obviously we've got our eyes closely on that.
We're not -- it would stand to reason that increased competition could do that as we've done so to date but we got our eyes on it.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe one more on the Individual Life business.
Hartford had showed a decent amount of universal life with secondary guarantees.
You obviously pulled their product off the shelf and you've incorporated some of the features of their product into yours.
How comfortable -- as you looked at the Hartford block more how comfortable are you with the pricing in that -- in the block that you acquired? We feel solid about the block of business in terms of its profitability in terms of its risk profile.
The pulling of the product of the Hartford product from the shelf is simply reflective of our integrated product design strategy and it just reflects further integration progress following the acquisition.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> One quick follow-up on the Group business.
The -- so just looking at the earnings trajectory and so the loss ratio on Group Disability do you need to take another round of rate and repricing for that group disability block? We continue to repress the business as it comes up for repricing Tom.
So that's not a course of activity that ends.
We are about 60% of the way through repricing the block of business that was on the books a few years year ago.
We expect to make significant further progress regarding the remainder at the beginning of next year.
Most of this business reprices at January 1 of the year and then the remainder would occur during the course of 2015.
So this is not a process we're done with but it's a process that has been progressing as expected.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one for Mark.
The -- any thoughts on the dual bills that are running through the house and the senate focused on the Collins Amendment and whether that's significant from your end? Well there's certainly a qualitative significance in the broad-based support for clarifying the original Collins Amendment as it relates to capital standards for non-bank SIFIs.
And I think there's a compelling message in the fact that a number of legislators on both sides of the aisle and in both houses of Congress have stepped up to endorse or co-sponsor these bills.
I'm not going to comment on the prospects for passing the bills because that's deeper water that I'm willing to swim in.
I'm not quite sure how all that stuff is going to work.
But I think there's a very clear message in the formulation and the positioning of these bills in both parties and in both houses.
Research Division</strong> And Mark just a follow-up on that.
Is it important from your end that this does get passed and clarified in terms of the ultimate rule setting? Or do you believe that it -- even without these getting past that ultimately it's going to get to a place that you all would be comfortable with? I do believe that this will ultimately get to a place that we'll be comfortable with.
The Collins Amendment as originally drafted or passed and as interpreted by some is actually an obstacle to implementing Dodd-Frank and achieving the objectives of the bill relative to stability and financial strength.
And I think that's clear and I think we will ultimately find a solution either through this kind of legislation or through a more direct administrative solution.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one follow-up on retirement.
The margins there were quite strong even after stripping out what you've defined as favorable investment income.
Can you describe what's really driving it? I saw crediting rest rates were down by a fair amount is it really just spreads? Spreads are a contribution to it but also I mean I think you're seeing when you take a look at for example the Full Service part of the business you look at our ability to generate greater contributions through a lot of the work we've done in that part of the business.
Greater implementation of auto enrollment activities auto escalation features in plans.
So that has helped as well.
In the meantime withdrawals stay at a relatively consistent percentage of unplanned balances.
So that has also been a contributor.
Research Division</strong> So just operating leverage in the business continues to flow through is that a fair description? I think that would be a good characterization of it yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a question to start on annuities and the ROA.
If I look at Slide 7 of your deck it looks like the year-over-year improvement in ROAs was pretty significant from 87 basis points to I guess 105.
And I know on the last call we talked about some of the dynamics or drivers that are causing this to occur.
But I just want to get a sense order of magnitude.
How much of that improvement would you say is related to the whole K factor adjustments that you make on a quarterly basis? I'd say a very significant portion of this today.
This is Steve.
When you look at the scale of economies in the business those remain in place the business has effectively managed expenses from a general administrative standpoint.
But the lowering of the K factor has been significantly driven by outsized equity market performance of certainly the past year but over the past few years.
As you all know our projections for equity market group are more modest.
And so then it would only stand to reason that if markets performed in line with those expectations any further expansion of the ROA would be at a much more modest rate.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I guess -- I don't know if we can do this externally but if you wanted to look at this annuity ROA maybe on a statutory basis where I'm guessing that we would eliminate a lot of the noise around DAC and K factors.
What would that improvement sort of look like order of magnitude? We won't be able to address that today Suneet.
I haven't even looked at that.
We report annuity results on a GAAP basis and we've got multiple legal entities here.
It would be difficult to do in a way that would be very meaningful.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fair.
And I guess my second question is on unbaked civvies.
As we think about some of the commentary we've heard from AIG and MetLife it sounds like both companies are spending a fair amount of time both in terms of investments of dollars and investments of people in terms of improving their financial systems to be able to give the Fed what it wants in the manner in which it wants it and the time in which it wants it.
And I guess we've not really heard or at least have not heard the same sort of commentary from Prudential.
And I'm just kind of curious how you think your systems and everything are positioned to kind of handle what could be some sort of new stress tests if this whole non-bank civvy thing goes in a way that's similar to what -- to the direction it's been going in.
Yes this is Mark I'll start off and then I'll ask Rob to comment as well.
I guess the beginning starting point is that we're going through a lot of the same thing.
The supervisory environment is evolving with the Federal Reserve and we're working on the same kinds of questions about reporting and interfaces and the capabilities that we need to be effectively supervised by the feds.
So it's work in process for us.
Let me comment briefly on stress test.
We've shared with you our capital protection plan.
And we go around the track on stress testing frequently here that there will be challenges to align exactly what we do what exactly what's expected.
But we feel like that's an area in which we've refined our capabilities going back really to the beginning of the financial crisis in ways that are pretty constructive and helpful.
The point of that isn't that we won't have to do some things differently but that we're coming into this with a lot of work already done around the things that we understand and also around the quality and credibility of the work we do in stress testing.
The things that we understand as they affect our capital insolvency issues.
Let me ask Rob to comment briefly and maybe a little more specifically on the capability issue and what's going on there.
Suneet I'd make a couple of observations.
One yes we are going to make similar investments and are making similar investments in both talent and systems.
I would observe that we're starting with a very strong foundation in each deliver off of.
And so that's extraordinarily helpful.
Second as Mark mentioned from a stress testing specifically standpoint we have done stress testing over a long period of time.
We've done that both within a statutory framework and we've done that in the context of our capital protection framework as well.
For us it's a matter of migrating that over to a framework that is more Fed-centric than that which we've used.
And we expect that that will occur over an extended period of time.
We are confident that we both can execute on this and that we have an ability to meet any reasonable standards that may be put up with respect to both the process of testing and the results of that testing.
Research Division</strong> And should we think about that migration to Fed standards as sort of a -- from a statutory framework to more of a GAAP framework? I think that is absolutely one component of it.
If you look at how we historically have been regulated obviously the statutory framework is critical to us.
Although we have translated that historically into GAAP.
But yes the Fed is a GAAP regulator not a stat regulator and that would be one component of the migration.
Yes.
Just one comment on that.
The standard language of the regulation of -- internationally the regulation of large financial institutions is in a consolidated framework.
And the only place for us that consolidated numbers live is in the GAAP world.
We don't have a consolidated statutory view.
But I would emphasize that we also have to pay a lot of attention to what our specific individual legal entities look like and the bottoms-up issues related to capital and liquidity and stress.
So we're going to have to bring together both dimensions.
But as Rob said the consolidated GAAP world is generally the starting point for looking at large financial institutions in any regulatory setting as it's been historically and as standards have emerged now.
I think I'll add one more comment Suneet which is when I described that migration I would say that migration is coming from both sides.
The existing stress testing framework that the Fed has used is very bank-centric.
So it's not only GAAP it's bank-centric.
And so there's an acknowledgment that we need to move off something that's historically been entity level and statutory.
And the Fed will need to look -- migrate its own stress testing away from those things that are appropriate to banks to those that are more appropriate to the insurance industry.
Our next question comes from the line of Erik Bass with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I guess could you first provide an update on your outlook for pension closeout activity.
I know John you mention that in your opening remarks.
And I guess is there a sticking point that's preventing larger deals from getting done right now or is it just a function of the long tail transaction process? Sure sure.
Let me ask Steve Pelletier to speak to that.
Steve? Thanks John.
Erik we still feel very positive about the prospects for development of the pension risk transfer markets.
Funding levels are up so are TBGC premiums.
And revise mortality tables continue to sharpen every one's attention on longevity risk.
So we continue to feel that that bodes well for both the ability and propensity of planned sponsors to transact.
These things take time to work their way through the system both within plan sponsors and then on discussion with potential counterparties like ourselves.
But we still feel the basis for development is there.
Charlie last quarter talked about segmentation of the market from a size standpoint.
I would add to that segmentation in the market from both a funded basis in which we're actually taking on the assets and on the part of the market where we're talking about pure longevity reinsurance.
Look that in either way both by size or by type of business we are in a number of active discussions.
We continue to feel that we will participate in the various segments of that market in particular in the large segment that really plays to our strengths and our ability to develop customized solutions.
But these transactions as well as large full-service cases these transactions are inherently lumpy and we'll see how they emerge.
But the prospects for development of the market are still solid.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if I could ask just one follow-up on the annuities business where you've highlighted again how the earnings has outpaced AUM growth.
I'm just wondered how much operating leverage do you have left in this business and can earnings growth continue to exceed AUM? Again assuming there that the markets follow your normal assumptions not the outsized returns we've had over the past couple of years.
I think Eric just to echo earlier comments there can be further progress from the operating leverage that's kind of inherent in the business but that progress is going to be much more moderate if markets perform more in line with our more moderate expectations.
And we have time for one final question and that will be from the line of Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> If we look at the FX drag rate for this quarter can you help us think about the forward impact of what with the rolling Japanese yen hedge program looks like for the next couple of years? Well we don't disclose the forward rates beyond the current year.
We will talk about next year's translation rate at some point before the end of this year.
But just a reminder of that the hedging program is rigorous and structured.
It's not discretionary we don't try to anticipate moves in exchange rates we put in place a rolling hedge over 3 years.
What that basically means is that at any point in time the next 12 months are fully hedged the 12 months after that are about 2/3 of the way hedged and the 12 months after that are about 1/3 of the way hedged.
The hedging transactions are executed in forward markets.
So you ought to pay attention to the difference between spot and forward if you really want to try to hone in on this number.
But basically if rates stabilize where they are after 3 years it will have fully worked its way through our translation and we'll be translating at a yen rate that's where the current market is.
So a long way of saying it depends on how the market moves but we do smooth it out as a result of our hedging translations.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And to follow-up on that.
As -- since you discontinued the yen-based bank channel single premium whole life product is it fair to assume that the overall portion of U.S.
dollar earnings would actually increase in Japan? And can you give us a sense of what the business mix kind of denomination look like? We can't give you a specific mix but there has been a proportion of obviously dollar-based sales.
That's been the best-selling products in POJ for quite some time.
With the diminution in the bank products the single premium yen denominated whole life the interesting part is that we are beginning to sell other products as Mark said in that particular channel.
So the recurring premium whole life has come in as we are selling more of now.
And that's right down the center of the fairway of what we want to sell.
So it's much more mortality-based and we like that product.
In terms of the multicurrency product we're not selling as much in the dollar-based product for a couple of reasons: one interest rates have come down; and two yen has depreciated against the dollar.
So that product has diminished slightly against some of the other currency products that we sell.
Keep in mind that the in-force is large.
And so the impact of any particular product activities in any particular year isn't going to move the needle very much.
Those yen-denominated single premium products which had fairly thin margins anyway didn't swing earnings very much in favor of yen.
And any particular year's activities will have a modest impact on mix.
Yaron it's Eric.
Without addressing what changes might occur in the future rough justice today about half of the earnings in Japan are yen-denominated.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one more question on the annuity space.
So clearly you're successful in growing the PDI product which is an income-oriented product.
I think one of your competitors was talking last week about maybe shifting into a more of an investment-oriented product.
Do you see a more attractive opportunity in the income protection side or do you see some opportunities in investment growth as well in the annuities? First of all just to address one fact point in your question.
We did launch an investment-only product at the end of April.
But now let me place that in context.
Our strategy in the annuities business is based on helping clients achieve secure retirement income.
And doing so through a range of products that diversifies and mitigates our risk we feel very confident about the profitability and risk profile of all the products that currently populate that strategy.
HDI as we've redesigned it as Mark spoke about; PDI which you mentioned; and now going forward the investment-only product as well.
So we think the range of these products is important to fulfilling that strategy of helping achieve secure retirement income.
And ladies and gentlemen today's conference call will be available for replay after 1:30 p.m.
today until midnight May 15.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system by dialing (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 314090.
International participants dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the second quarter 2014 earnings teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's teleconference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Eric Durant.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Cynthia.
Thank you for joining our call.
We hope we're not interrupting your summer vacation.
Representing Prudential today are John Strangfeld CEO; Mark Grier Vice Chairman; Rob Falzon Chief Financial Officer; Charlie Lowrey Head of International Businesses; Steve Pelletier Head of Domestic Businesses; and Rob Axel Controller and Principal Accounting Officer.
In order to help you to understand Prudential Financial we will make some forward-looking statements in the following presentation.
It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today.
Additional information regarding factors that could cause such a difference appears in the section titled Forward-looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures of our earnings press release for the second quarter of 2014 which can be found on our website at www.investor.prudential.com.
In addition this presentation may include references to adjusted operating income or to earnings per share or EPS; or return on equity or ROE; which are determined based on adjusted operating income.
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services businesses that exclude certain items.
Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for an income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles GAAP and the excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations.
For a reconciliation of adjusted operating income to the comparable GAAP measure please see our earnings press release on our website.
Additional historical information related to the company's financial performance is also located on our website.
Over to you John.
Thank you Eric.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
The central message today is that we had strong results in the second quarter and we are on pace to achieve our goals for the year.
While we've clearly benefited from some tailwinds including strong investment results and favorable mortality business fundamentals are the main driver of our improving results.
We think it's significant that each of our divisions produced higher earnings than a year ago.
Mark and Rob will review the quarter in greater detail in a few minutes but here are a few highlights.
Our Asset Management business achieved its 27th consecutive quarter of positive institutional flows.
Also retail flows were positive.
Sustained growth in assets under management is driving growth in asset management fees and in operating income.
Our Annuities business has benefited from a sustained period of favorable equity markets which has driven higher earnings improved returns and a lower risk profile.
We are very comfortable with the expected profitability as well as the risks of the products we are selling today.
Over time we expect the risk profile of this business to improve as the composition of our block gradually shifts to products with less equity market exposure.
Retirement continued to produce outstanding results largely because of strong investment spreads including a contribution from non-coupon investments that was modestly higher than our average expectation.
Although we recorded no pension risk transfer transactions in the second quarter we completed 3 PRT deals in July including a landmark longevity reinsurance transaction which will hit our books in the third quarter.
We continue to believe that PRT both funded transactions like GM and Verizon as well as those where we solely reinsure longevity risk is an attractive business opportunity for Prudential.
Individual Life Insurance and Group Insurance both achieved higher adjusted operating income this quarter.
In Individual Life the Hartford integration continues on track and expense synergies contributed to the positive earnings result this quarter.
In Group Insurance experience was more favorable than a year ago in both life and disability.
We are confident that Group Insurance is on the right track but improvement will not be linear.
Finally International Insurance recorded solid results in the face of difficult sales comparisons and currency headwinds.
Life Planner results benefited from sustained business growth and improved claims experience.
Gibraltar's earnings topped $500 million for the first time modestly above the strong result a year ago and a seasonally strong second quarter.
Productivity in the Life Consultant channel is back to pre-acquisition levels and the rate of decline in agents is slowing.
And over time we expect the number of life consultants to stabilize and then to grow and that will give the business a further boost.
So overall we feel very good about our quarter and our business trends.
And with that Mark over to you.
Thank you John and thank you Eric.
Good morning good afternoon or good evening.
And thank you all for joining our earnings call today.
I'll take you through our results for the quarter.
And then I'll turn it over to Rob Falzon who will cover our capital and liquidity picture.
Using Slide 2 I'll start with an overview of our financial results for the quarter.
On a reported basis common stock earnings per share amounted to $2.49 for the second quarter based on after-tax adjusted operating income of the Financial Services businesses.
This compares to EPS of $2.30 a year ago.
After adjusting for market-driven and discrete items in both the current quarter and the year-ago quarter EPS was up by 12% amounting to $2.51 compared to $2.24 a year ago.
This is largely the result of 4 things: first higher fees mainly driven by growth in account values and assets under management in our Annuities and Asset Management businesses; second improved claims experience in our Group Insurance business; third continued growth of our International Insurance business; and fourth lower net expenses in several of our businesses.
On a GAAP basis we reported net income of just over $1 billion for the current quarter compared to a loss of $517 million a year ago.
The loss in the year-ago quarter reflected the accounting impact of foreign currency remeasurement of non-yen liabilities on the books of our Japanese insurance companies which was driven by weakening of the yen as well as negative mark to market on derivatives we use in duration management driven by rising interest rates.
In the current quarter the yen was relatively stable in relation to the U.S.
dollar and other currencies in which we offer insurance products in Japan and the impact of interest rate changes on our duration management derivatives was more moderate.
As a result our current quarter GAAP net income is fairly consistent with our after-tax adjusted operating income.
We consider the foreign currency remeasurement that affects our net income to be essentially an accounting presentation mismatch because we hold currency-matched assets to support the non-yen liabilities of our Japanese insurance companies.
And the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations on the liabilities runs through the income statement while the offsetting impact on the assets is included in accumulated other comprehensive income or AOCI.
Book value per share excluding AOCI and after adjusting the numbers to remove the impact of this mismatch amounted to $63.67 at the end of the second quarter up by $3.68 from year-end after the payment of 2 quarterly dividends totaling $1.06 per share.
We also evaluate our ROE performance after adjusting for this accounting presentation mismatch which benefited our reported ROE by reducing the denominator.
After removing this benefit along with the impact on results from market-driven and discrete items our annualized return on equity for the first half of the year would be about 16%.
This reflects solid underlying performance across our businesses with a tailwind from strong non-coupon investment results particularly in the first quarter and some seasonality that favors the first half in International Insurance.
On Slide 3 we have a very short list of market-driven and discrete items included in our results for the current quarter with a net unfavorable impact of $0.02 per share.
In the Annuities business the impact of a decline in interest rates in the quarter exceeded the benefit of favorable performance of equities and our market-driven adjustments.
We strengthened our reserves for guaranteed minimum debt and income benefits and adjusted DAC resulting in a net charge of about $0.01 per share.
And in Individual Life we absorbed integration costs of about $0.01 per share related to the Hartford Life acquisition.
During the year-ago quarter market-driven and discrete items produced a net benefit of $0.06 per share mainly driven by a favorable reserve and DAC update in the Annuities business.
Turning to Slide 4.
On a GAAP basis our net income of just over $1 billion in the current quarter includes amounts characterized as realized investment losses of $273 million pretax comprised of the items that you see on this slide.
Product-related embedded derivatives and hedging activities had a negative impact of $365 million driven by a mark-to-market on our GAAP liabilities for variable annuity living benefits reflecting the decline in interest rates in the quarter.
Foreign currency remeasurement resulted in a pretax loss of $231 million for the current quarter.
This reverses a gain of the same amount that we had in the first quarter.
Impairments and credit losses on investments were $27 million for the quarter.
Going the other way general portfolio activities mainly in our International Insurance operations resulted in next -- net pretax gains of $199 million.
And mark-to-market on derivatives mainly related to asset and liability duration management resulted in a $151 million pretax gain also largely driven by the decline in interest rates.
Moving now to our business results and starting on Slide 5.
Slide 5 shows our U.S.
Retirement Solutions and Investment Management businesses.
This is a view of the results of these businesses showing the adjustments to results for the Annuities business that we would make from market unlockings and experience true-ups.
Slide 6 highlights the Annuities business.
After adjusting for reserve and DAC updates Annuities earned $394 million for the quarter an increase of $69 million from a year ago.
Turning to Slide 7.
Most of our operating earnings in the Annuities business come from base contract charges linked to account values.
At the end of the second quarter account values were just under $160 billion with market appreciation driving a 13% increase from a year ago.
The resulting increase in fee income was the leading cause of the earnings growth from the year-ago quarter.
In addition the rising account values have lowered the prospective costs of guaranteed death and income benefits associated with our contracts and have contributed to a more favorable DAC amortization rate resulting in a reduced drag from charges for benefit costs and base amortization.
These developments have contributed to a higher margin for the business compounding the increase in fees to produce a 21% increase in earnings from the year-ago quarter.
Slide 8 presents Individual Annuity sales.
Our gross annuity sales for the quarter were $2.7 billion up roughly $200 million from a year ago.
As you see on this slide the mix of our sales has changed significantly reflecting our strategy to broaden the choices we can offer to retirement-focused clients and their advisors while diversifying our risk exposure.
Sales of our Prudential-defined income or PDI product shown in the light blue portions of the pie charts amounted to $530 million in the quarter or about 20% of overall sales.
PDI directs a client's entire investment to a separate account fixed-income portfolio that we manage and the product provides a guaranteed lifetime income amount which is determined by applying an income payout rate based on the client's age at the time of purchase to the premium pay.
The payout percentage grows at a contractual roll-up rate until lifetime withdrawals begin.
The design of PDI allows us to change both the income payout rates and the roll-up rate for new business on a monthly basis enabling us to keep pricing in sync with changing market conditions.
For example a purchaser of PDI today would receive a 50-basis-point lower roll-up rate and a lower initial payout rate than in the first quarter since our current pricing gives effect to recent interest rate declines.
Sales of our highest daily suite [ph] or HDI products shown in the dark blue portion of the pie charts accounted for $1.9 billion of our current quarter sales compared to $2.1 billion a year ago.
Substantially all of the current quarter sales represent our current-generation product HDI 3.0 which we introduced in February of this year.
Similarly to PDI HDI 3.0 allows us to change key pricing elements including the roll-up rate for the protected withdrawal value that determines the base for lifetime income and withdrawal percentages for various age bands as often as monthly for new business.
The remainder of our current quarter sales about $300 million represents Annuities without living benefit guarantees.
To further broaden our product portfolio and enhance the solutions we can offer to client focused on tax-deferred asset growth potential in April we introduced our Prudential Premier investment variable annuity product which does not offer these guarantees and unbundles guaranteed minimum death benefits as an optional add-on.
Slide 9 highlights Retirement.
The Retirement business reported adjusted operating income of $286 million for the current quarter an increase of $7 million from a year ago.
The increase came mainly from a greater contribution from net investment results.
Current quarter results benefited by approximately $30 million from actions we've taken mainly in the second half of last year to reposition the portfolios supporting our pension risk transfer business essentially migrating a portion of the portfolio from public fixed-income investments to private fixed income and commercial mortgages consistent with our asset and liability management strategy for this business.
This benefit was largely offset by lower income from non-coupon asset classes compared to a year ago.
Returns on these investments exceeded our average expectations by about $10 million in the current quarter and exceeded our expectations by about $35 million in the year-ago quarter.
Shown on Slide 10 total retirement gross deposits and sales were $6.6 billion for the current quarter compared to $8.1 billion a year ago.
Full Service gross deposits and sales were $5.5 billion for the quarter compared to $3.7 billion a year ago.
Attractive large case opportunities in the full service market are lumpy leading to a variable sales pattern from one quarter to another.
For example during the first quarter of this year we closed 5 case sales of over $100 million each including a major case win for $2.6 billion while current quarter new sales plans included only one case over $100 million and the year-ago quarter had no case sales of that size.
We had net outflows of $1.5 billion in Full Service Retirement for the current quarter reflecting elevated plan lapses including the impact of client merger and acquisition activity.
Stand-alone Institutional gross sales were $2.1 billion in the current quarter compared to $4.4 billion a year ago.
Current quarter sales included $1.1 billion of stable value wrap products while the year-ago quarter included $3.5 billion of those sales.
Taking advantage of a market opportunity over the past several years we have grown the book of this fee-based business to over $70 billion.
We are now seeing greater competition in the market for these products with an increase in the number of wrap providers.
Our stand-alone Institutional business had net outflows of $2.5 billion for the quarter including withdrawals by stable value wrap clients seeking provider diversification.
In addition ongoing benefit payments on pension risk transfer cases reduced account values.
Total Retirement account values amounted to $330.5 billion at the end of the second quarter up by $29 billion from a year ago.
Slide 11 highlights Asset Management.
The Asset Management business reported adjusted operating income of $200 million for the current quarter compared to $172 million a year ago.
The $28 million increase in earnings was mainly driven by higher asset management fees net of expenses reflecting growth in assets under management.
The segment's assets under management amounted to $921 billion at the end of the second quarter including $547 billion managed for institutional and retail clients.
This represents a 16% increase in third-party assets under management from a year ago driven by market appreciation along with about $15 billion of positive net flows over the past year.
Current quarter results also benefited from an $11 million greater contribution from the segment's other activities.
Slide 12 presents the results of our U.S.
Individual Life and Group Insurance businesses showing the adjustments to Individual Life results for integration costs relating to the Hartford acquisition.
Slide 13 highlights Individual Life.
After adjusting for integration costs Individual Life reported earnings of $166 million for the current quarter compared to $152 million a year ago.
The increase in earnings reflects a greater contribution from net investment results mainly driven by portfolio growth and lower expenses.
The integration of the business we acquired from Hartford is well on track and on a run rate basis the current quarter benefited from realization of about 3/4 of our targeted $90 million of annual cost saves.
Claims experience was favorable both in the current quarter and the year-ago quarter.
The contribution to current quarter results from mortality experience together with reserve updates was about $15 million more favorable than our average expectation.
Shown on Slide 14 Individual Life sales based on annualized new business premiums amounted to $103 million for the current quarter.
This compares to sales of $184 million a year ago.
The decrease was mainly driven by a $75 million decline in sales of guaranteed universal life insurance products shown in the dark blue bars.
This sales decline reflects actions we've taken to limit concentration in these products and to maintain appropriate returns including a series of price increases.
In addition a number of competitors have taken steps to make their products relatively more attractive and several companies have recently entered or increased their presence in the guaranteed universal life market.
Term insurance sales in the light blue bars were down by $7 million from a year ago reflecting price reductions by several competitors.
In July we announced pricing changes on several of our guaranteed universal life and term insurance products allowing us to enhance our competitive position where we see opportunities to offer attractive value propositions with appropriate expected returns.
Slide 15 highlights Group Insurance.
Group Insurance earnings amounted to $46 million in the current quarter compared to $22 million a year ago.
The increase was driven by more favorable claims experience both in disability and life.
This is presented on Slide 16.
In Group Disability favorable current quarter claims experience drove an improvement of 9 percentage points in the benefit ratio compared to the year-ago quarter.
This contrasts to an adverse fluctuation in the first quarter.
While we've enhanced our claims management capabilities and are continuing to make progress in repricing cases as they renew experience will vary from one quarter to another and improvements won't be linear.
Slide 17 presents the International Insurance division.
Slide 18 highlights our Life Planner business.
Our Life Planner business reported earnings of $382 million for the quarter up $14 million from a year ago.
Results continue to benefit from sustained business growth.
On a constant-dollar basis insurance revenues including premiums policy charges and fees were up by 5% from a year ago.
In addition the current quarter benefited by about $20 million in comparison to a year ago from improved claims experience.
We estimate that the mortality contribution to current quarter results was about $10 million more favorable than our average expectations.
Higher expenses driven mainly by technology and distribution costs partly offset the benefits of business growth and improved claims experience.
In addition foreign currency exchange rates which reflect our hedging of the yen income at JPY 82 this year versus JPY 80 last year had a negative impact of $3 million on earnings in comparison to a year ago.
Slide 19 highlights Gibraltar Life.
Gibraltar Life reported earnings of $502 million for the current quarter up $14 million from a year ago after adjusting for integration costs.
The current quarter benefited from lower net expenses than a year ago including some nonlinear items such as fixed asset sales and technology costs.
The current quarter also benefited from a greater contribution from net investment results mainly driven by improved spread on fixed-income investments.
Going the other way policy benefits experience including mortality and surrenders was less favorable than in the year-ago quarter.
While mortality was somewhat more favorable than a year ago with a current quarter contribution about $10 million greater than our average expectations the year-ago quarter benefited by about $30 million from gains on an elevated level of surrenders of non-yen fixed annuities.
In addition foreign currency exchange rates had a negative impact of $11 million in the comparison of results to a year ago.
Turning to Slide 20.
International Insurance sales on a constant-dollar basis were $769 million for the current quarter compared to $827 million a year ago.
This is a product view of our sales.
Our sales pattern has been affected by actions we've taken including changes in our product lineup and commission rates.
In addition the seasonal sales trend favors the first quarter for our Japanese Life Planner business and the second quarter for Gibraltar Life.
Our yen-based single-premium bank channel product which we discontinued late last year after opportunistic sales of over $1 billion contributed $62 million to sales of Gibraltar Life in the year-ago quarter with minor residual sales through the fourth quarter of last year as you can see in the brown bars.
In December of [indiscernible] we've reduced commission rates on the yen-based retirement income products sold by our Prudential of Japan Life Planners in order to limit concentration.
This product shown in the gold bars contributed $29 million to current quarter sales down $28 million from a year ago.
Sales of all other products including those denominated in U.S.
dollars increased by $32 million in the current quarter from a year ago.
This includes a $10 million increase in sales of our U.S.
dollar-denominated whole life and retirement income products shown in the light blue bars.
Slide 21 shows Life Planner sales.
Life Planner sales were $290 million in the current quarter compared to $277 million a year ago.
Sales by our Life Planners in Japan were $185 million in the current quarter down by $21 million from a year ago.
In the gold bars you can see the $28 million decline in sales of the yen-based retirement income product affected by our change in commission rates that I mentioned.
This more than offset an increase of $7 million or 5% in sales of other products shown in the dark blue bars.
Sales outside of Japan in the light blue bars were up by $34 million from a year ago mainly driven by increases in Korea and Brazil.
Slide 22 shows Gibraltar sales.
Sales from Gibraltar Life were $479 million in the current quarter compared to $550 million a year ago.
Sales by Life Consultants in the dark blue bars amounted to $232 million for the current quarter down $24 million or 9% from the year-ago quarter.
Our Life Consultant count has declined by about 1 100 or 11% from a year ago as we implemented minimum production requirements and other quality standards for the sales force that came to us with the Star and Edison acquisitions.
In addition the sales comparison is affected by accelerated purchases of a number of our Japanese yen-based products in advance of price increases in April of last year which resulted in sales that were reported in the second quarter of last year.
Sales through the bank channel shown in the gold bars amounted to $167 million for the current quarter down $51 million from a year ago.
This decrease reflects the $62 million of sales of the discontinued single-premium product in the year-ago quarter that I mentioned partly offset by an $11 million increase in sales of other products.
We are emphasizing recurring-premium Death Protection products and life insurance policies with premium-paying periods of 10 years or longer comprised about 1/3 of overall current quarter sales in the bank channel compared to just over 10% a year ago.
Sales through independent agents shown in the light blue bars amounted to $80 million in the current quarter up modestly from a year ago.
Moving to Slide 23.
Corporate and Other operations reported a loss of $341 million for the current quarter.
This compares to a $331 million loss a year ago after adjusting for a write-off of bond issue costs.
The increase in the loss reflects higher net expenses in the current quarter including the impact of a lower pension credit.
The benefit of lower interest expense reflecting our refinancing of high coupon debt last year was a partial offset.
Now I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks Mark.
I'm going to provide you an update on some key items under the heading of Financial Strength and Flexibility.
Starting on Slide 24.
We continue to manage our insurance companies to levels of capital that we believe are consistent with AA standards.
As of year-end Prudential Insurance reported an RBC ratio of 456% with total adjusted capital or TAC of $13.9 billion.
While we don't perform a quarterly bottoms-up RBC calculation we estimate that our RBC ratio continues to be well above our 400% target at Prudential Insurance after giving effect to the results for the first half of the year.
In Japan Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar Life reported strong solvency margins of 777% and 955% respectively as of March 31 their fiscal year-end.
These reported solvency margins are also well above our targets.
Looking at the overall capital position for the Financial Services businesses on Slide 25.
We calculate our on-balance sheet capital capacity by comparing the statutory capital position of Prudential Insurance to our preset RBC ratio target and then add capital capacity held at the parent and other subsidiaries.
As of year-end we estimated that our on-balance sheet capital capacity was about $3.5 billion including about $1.5 billion that we considered readily deployable.
During the first half of this year we've returned about $1 billion to shareholders.
These returns came in the form of quarterly common stock dividends of $0.53 per share in each quarter for a total of about $500 million and a repurchase of $500 million of our common stock.
The net results of these returns of capital and the capital generated by our businesses in excess of their organic growth needs left us with available on-balance sheet capital capacity of over $5 billion including about $1.5 billion that we consider readily deployable.
Our $500 million of share repurchases in the first half of the year including $250 million in the second quarter completed the $1 billion of repurchases authorized under the program that ended on June 30 of this year.
As you know we announced a new $1 billion repurchase authorization in June which extends through June 30 of next year.
Turning to the cash position of the parent company.
Cash and short-term investments net of outstanding commercial paper amounted to $4.1 billion as of the end of the second quarter.
The cash in excess of our targeted $1.3 billion liquidity cushion is available to repay maturing operating debt to fund operating needs and to deploy over time for strategic and capital management purposes.
Now I'll turn it back over to John Thank you Rob.
And we would like to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Erik Bass with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping that you could provide some more details on the economics of the BT longevity swap transaction.
And how should we think about the earnings contribution? Also how do returns for longevity swaps compare to those for pension closeouts? Erik this is Steve.
I'd be glad to address that.
The returns on both longevity transactions and funded transactions are very much consistent with our corporate ROE objectives.
In regard to looking at longevity deals vis-à-vis funded deals I'd point to 2 key distinctions.
First would be the relative capital intensivity [ph] of these transactions.
Obviously every deal is different and you need to account for that.
But if you were going to use a general rule of thumb that said that longevity deals are about 1/5 as capital intensive per dollar of notional amount as funded deals that would be pretty accurate.
The key distinction there obviously being that in longevity reinsurance we're not taking on the assets and therefore not taking on the credit risk that characterizes funded deals.
The second point I would make is the emergence of earnings.
The longevity reinsurance and funded transactions are highly complementary in this regard.
So from both a strategic and a financial aspect being active in both sides of the market in that regard is very attractive to us.
Funded deals the earnings level -- the annual earnings level gradually decreases over time.
In longevity reinsurance transactions the earnings emergence gradually increases over time.
So those are the 2 key distinctions I would make.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
So I guess is the right way to think about then kind of a ballpark maybe 1% to 2% of the amount swapped is a reasonable estimate for kind of the required capital? Yes I think that would be fair.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess one follow-up is that we've seen a number of longevity swap transactions in the U.K.
but very little activity in the U.S.
And what do you think is driving this? And is there any reason that longevity swaps wouldn't become more prevalent in the U.S.
over time? I think the longevity market may well develop in the U.S.
Certainly the U.K.
has been the leader in that.
We also look for potential emergence of the longevity market in Canada and the U.S.
may well follow.
But no question that for us and for the market in general the U.K.
has been the main leader in longevity reinsurance activity.
Our next question will come from the line of Jimmy Bhullar with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First on the earnings overall.
Obviously the $2.49 number was pretty strong.
You mentioned in the release the DAC unlocking in Individual Annuity also the Hartford Life integration costs.
But wondering if you could just highlight some of the other items whether they were seasonal or related to mortality morbidity or non-coupon income that might have inflated the reported earnings numbers.
And how do we think about earnings going from third -- second quarter to the third quarter? And I think Mark you mentioned some of those in your remarks but if you could just highlight those.
And then secondly on the Life Planner business.
The Life Planner count was down this quarter and it slowed -- the growth in that has slowed over the last few years.
Can you still grow sales in the Life Planner business in Japan if your Life Planner count growth remains sluggish and remains in the sort of low-single-digit range? Sure.
Jimmy let me -- this is Charlie.
Let me take the second one first and then we'll get back to you on the first one.
Let me go through the Life Planner count in Japan and then I might just comment on the rest of the Life Planner count as well.
But in Japan when you think about Life Planners there are really 3 ins and outs to the business and you really have to peel back the onion and look at them.
So first there are the recruits and the terminations how many people do you actually recruit during a quarter and how many people leave for a variety of reasons.
And that was about normal.
The second is as you know we take Life Planners and some Life Planners choose to become sales managers.
And the sales manager's job is to recruit develop and retain Life Planners.
And so over time and in different quarters you'll get a number of different Life Planners who choose to become sales managers.
In this particular quarter we had more Life Planners who want to become sales managers.
That is actually a good thing for the future because we expect the increase in sales managers over time to help with Life Planner recruiting in the future.
So that actually bodes well in the long term.
The third area is when Life Planners go to the bank channel.
And here these are the secondies [ph] we actually introduce into the bank channel.
And here what we do is we take lower-performing LPs or Life Planners and give them the opportunity to become secondies [ph] in the bank channel.
And as you know we only hire 2 or 3 applicants out of every 100.
We're extremely finicky about who we actually choose to become a Life Planner.
And we train them incredibly well to perform 3 different tasks and that's to prospect present and to close.
But if an LP fails an LP usually fails because he or she can't prospect.
That's the toughest part of the job.
But in banks they don't need to prospect.
So as secondies [ph] to the bank they can perform really well over time.
And that's what's happened in this particular quarter as well is we had more LPs go to become secondies [ph] in the bank channel.
So as a result Japan was down some.
If these folks hadn't transferred the growth rate would have been about the long-term average that POJ has which is sort of 1% to 2%.
But the growth rate isn't unlikely to materially accelerate in terms of hiring LPs because of the number of LPs we have and also our maniacal focus on quality.
We're not going to change the quality of our hiring.
But I think the long-term average has been sort of 1% to 2%.
It'll probably be that way in the future as we go forward.
And that's really Japan.
In Brazil it's a slightly different story.
You have -- Brazil's up a lot about 25%.
So we have over 800 Life Planners.
And there we expect in some of our other markets we would grow Life Planners at a more rapid rate.
Jimmy it's Eric.
Let me just take...
Research Division</strong> And actually just one follow-up on that.
The sales have exceeded -- sales growth has done better than the Life Planner count has done recently.
So can you keep that up? And do you see further improvements in that business especially in Japan? I think you may see some improvement probably not on the productivity side because Life Planners already are at a very high level of productivity.
On the premium side over time what we've seen is that there has been a sort of constant -- and this is over time.
It'll vary from year to year quarter to quarter.
But there has been an increase in premium over time.
Not going to be huge but it will add to the growth rate that you would expect on the Life Planner side.
Jimmy it's Eric.
Let me have at your first question.
We had a number of favorable items in the second quarter that may not be trend-able and that amounted to about $100 million altogether pretax.
They would include in the Retirement segment non-coupon investment income about $10 million higher than our average expectation.
We had favorable mortality in Individual Life in the Life Planner businesses and in Gibraltar again with experience being more favorable than our average expectation.
The amounts there are $15 million $10 million and $11 million respectively.
We had favorable seasonality at Gibraltar as Mark mentioned that we estimate was about $30 million in comparison to the first quarter and all else the same in comparison to the third quarter.
And we had a favorable level of net expenses in Gibraltar of about $20 million.
So again all else the same you would expect the expenses to be about $20 million higher in the third quarter than in the second quarter.
Again the sum of all these items is about $100 million.
It's actually $96 million or about $0.12 a share.
Next we'll go to the line of Tom Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just first a quick one on the Retirement business.
Just given the visibility that John mentioned to open the call on the deals that have been booked so far in 3Q in terms of the PRT and the longevity deal do you have visibility that flows will be meaningfully positive in 3Q? That was my first question.
I wouldn't look to characterize our overall Retirement flows in the third quarter Tom the way that for example the longevity reinsurance deal for BT will show up as it will show up in our flows and in our account values but it won't show up on our balance sheet given the fact that we're not holding assets vis-à-vis that deal.
I would also point out that while we're very pleased about the kind of multiple transaction count in the month of July we think it reflects a good pace of activity and good pace of our profile in that industry.
The other 2 transactions while we're very happy about them they were significantly smaller.
One was a longevity deal for about $1.7 billion and the other was a funded deal for approximately $350 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And also just to follow up on the Full Service side.
Just given some of the items you laid out on the large cases that went away this quarter or lapsed this quarter would you expect some improvement there? Or is it just hard to tell given the lumpiness of that business? I think it is as you say Tom inherently lumpy.
The -- what we saw in this quarter was actually on the Full Service side some pretty good flow in terms of transaction count and number of deals we closed.
However only one of them was above the $100 million mark that we use to characterize large transactions and that one just barely while we had 4 lapses that we'd characterize as large and a significant portion of that was driven by M&amp;A activity in other words our clients being acquired and the business being merged away from us to the other provider.
And that's obviously inherently difficult to predict.
But we're -- while we still see this as a very very competitive business and we do not see that there's any near-term change in the -- in those competitive dynamics we're pleased with the degree of activity that we see in this business.
We're pleased with the condition of our pipeline.
I think that's reflective of the investments we've made in the business so that is encouraging.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last one for me if I could shift gears to Japan.
The -- just I guess more of a broad industry question.
We're seeing this with peers too that the sales environment seems to be becoming more challenging.
I'm not sure if that's a function of the currency-related products that were sold and now those have become less attractive or has the competition just intensified.
Can you give a bit more color with what's going on whether it's on the sales front or the recruiting side? Sure.
I'll take the recruiting first.
We don't see in -- we don't see a lot greater competition there because we recruit a very different kind of individual.
So what we look for are generally people who haven't been in the insurance industry before but have sales experience that want to do something different that want to be more in charge of their own compensation structure.
And as a result we continue to recruit a fair number of people.
By a fair number of people meaning the level that we want.
So on the recruitment side we don't see a lot of competition in the vein in which we operate.
In terms of products I would almost say the same thing.
There is a fair amount of competition.
There's a lot of competition for individual products in the third sector.
And in the first sector if you say just life insurance and savings we concentrate on Death Protection.
That is the core of what we do and we see less and less people in the death protection market.
In other words a lot of people are moving over into savings products and savings products are more competitive in terms of pricing.
But in terms of traditional life insurance in which we operate we -- first of all we compete as much on service as we do on pricing.
And second of all we are able to hold our prices.
So we still feel pretty good about the margins we're getting and the products that we're selling.
We have tapped the brake on certain products as Mark talked about whether it's the yen retirement income product or in the bank channel the single-premium yen-denominated whole life.
We obviously slammed on the brakes there but that was our doing for specific purposes.
Much have had to do with business mix as opposed to profitability.
So on the profitability side we still feel very good about what we offer but more importantly how we offer it.
We -- it's a very different kind of sale.
We have a needs-based selling process that we started in Japan 25 years ago and we still adhere to that.
So our core is Death Protection.
Our core is leads-based [ph] selling and our core is quality recruits.
And we're continuing with that strategy.
Our next question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> A question on Gibraltar and I know upfront in the prepared remarks you talked about over time the life consultant count there starting to stabilize.
But as you've implemented these higher production standards particularly for the Edison and Star consultants are -- where in the ballgame are you? Are you in the late innings there in terms of stabilizing that agent count? Should we expect that to fall significantly from here still or no? Yes.
I think you will still see it fall a little bit.
I'd say we're in late innings but we may have some extended innings.
So let me just expand on that.
In terms of the life consultant count the rate of decreasing is decreasing if you will.
So we're down 11% this quarter.
We were down 14% last quarter 18% the previous quarter and 20% the quarter before that so 20% 18% 14% 11%.
You can do the math.
It's going to continue to come down and we'll bottom out at some point probably late this year first half of next year.
But it's going exactly as we thought.
But interestingly in terms of the metrics we're doing well.
So in other words the things that we hoped would happen and expected to happen frankly are.
So John talked about productivity.
Productivity has gone back to the pre-acquisition levels as we had expected it would.
13-month persistency has increased from 89 -- sort of 89.5% back up to 91%.
That's not quite up to the level we had before pre-acquisition but we're getting back to that level.
And finally the policy -- policies are increasing in size.
In other words the in-force face amount has stayed relatively constant but the number of policies has decreased slightly.
And what that means it gets back to my previous comment which is this really makes sense given the focus on Death Protection as opposed to Star/Edison which was really pushing more savings products.
So our focus is Death Protection.
You're seeing that in the metrics coming out and you're seeing us again focus on quality of life consultants.
So numbers will continue to come down for a little while but they are as you can see in the bottoming-out phase.
And again that will probably happen in the next -- by the end of the year first half of next year something like that.
But this is going all -- along exactly as we planned.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful Charlie.
And then a question on the Annuities segment.
On a core basis excluding some of these discrete items it looks like the pretax ROA for that segment continues to run right around 100 basis points.
Maybe it's slightly higher than that.
So other than equity market performance is there any reason why that level of ROA for the business should shift from current levels? Would the shift over time for instance toward the PDI product alter this return profile? John it's Steve.
Equity markets will continue to be the major impact on the ROA going forward the equity markets in relation to our expectations.
The business is at scale.
The business is able to add business flows and account values without significant increase in expenses so the ROA will continue to benefit from that.
The -- in regard to the differentiation between PDI and HDI those would not make a hugely significant impact on the ROA.
There is a differentiation in fee basis between the 2 types of business but if you're looking at the overall book of business the -- that would not have a material impact on ROA.
Yes.
John also remember the mix of the in-force.
Yes remember the mix of the in-force.
PDI is still small.
Research Division</strong> Yes understood.
And then if I could sneak one last one in for you.
Maybe a little bit more philosophical for you on capital management.
I know you've talked in the past about wanting to be a consistent buyer of your shares over time.
And clearly since you reintroduced the buyback $250 million quarter has been right on.
I'm wondering how you square that with the fact that your first half results are arguably the best first half -- best 6-month period Prudential has ever had yet your stock is down 6% year-to-date against the overall market which is up 4% and you're underperforming most of your peers.
So I'm just curious why you wouldn't advance the pace of your buybacks when your stock is underperforming the way it is.
John it's Rob.
I think the simple answer to that question is that we do not use stock buybacks to express a view on the relevant value of [indiscernible].
Rather what we do is we look at buybacks as a deployment of excess capital that we generate on an annual basis and we had sort of a waterfall that we've described and how we like to redeploy that.
Obviously it's first to finance the internal growth of our businesses; secondly to provide for inorganic growth like our PRT business for M&amp;A; and also to provide a return to our shareholders.
And we do that through the combination of the dividend and the stock buybacks.
So not influenced by perception of relevant value of the stock in terms of the priority of how we would distribute that capital.
Research Division</strong> No I guess I'd just -- I'd ask you guys to consider it.
There are times when investors will be more interested in building positions in your stock than at other times and I think this would be one of those times.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Mark can you update us on what you view as the prospects for passage in the House of the bill to create a separate capital standard for the non-bank SIFI insurers? Well handicapping the political process is not my cup of tea.
I will point out that there's a lot of momentum significant sponsorship from both sides of the aisle and endorsements of the idea from a lot of different places not just confined to Congress.
But I can't tell you what's involved in making this happen and how that might play out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On a related issue the treatment of corporate bond investments for life insurers without the ability to apply ratings from the rating agency seems to be something that needs to be addressed over time.
Do you have any ideas on how that could be taken care of? Well let me start and then I'll hand it over to Rob.
There are approaches to this credit evaluation and link of solvency and capital that reflect the things that we think are important particularly the probability of default and loss given default.
And I'll let Rob add some comments to that.
Yes.
So first and foremost we expect that credit quality-sensitive capital construct for insurers would have to evolve.
It would be imprudent for something other than that to manifest itself in sort of whatever regulatory outcome occurs here.
With respect to the reliance on the rating agencies there is a number of ways to do a workaround around that.
Specifically within our own organization we have internal ratings for all of our privates including both the corporate bonds and the mortgages that we underwrite.
And on the public side we have mechanisms for being able to back into equivalent ratings without having to have to rely on the rating agency ratings themselves.
And I suspect other institutions can get to the same place as well.
So we don't view the lack of our reliance -- or the lack of the ability to rely specifically on the rating agencies to be -- as being an impediment to having a credit-sensitive metric ultimately put in place.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that should be able to have a workaround related to -- for the regulators treating all bond investments the same regardless of rating at least from an external rating standpoint? We certainly would think so.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions going back to the BP [ph] pension -- longevity deal excuse me.
First I'm flashing [ph] on Met's [ph] Investor Day and former CEO talking about problems in the U.K.
with regards to regulation in that marketplace.
It has become -- it had become significantly more difficult significantly more conservative.
Is that something that has not occurred on the longevity side? Steven it's Steve Pelletier.
I'd make a couple of comments.
First of all remember that in longevity we are focusing purely on just that on longevity reinsurance and not taking on the assets.
Second I'd emphasize the point that in these transactions both the BT deal and the other longevity deal that I mentioned we are operating strictly on an offshore basis.
And that is a key distinction there.
The regulatory picture is very different for us given that posture.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then just one more quick one on the accounting for the longevity deal.
I think you said that it was going to be in your flows but -- the $27 billion I assume but not on the -- not in your balance sheet.
How will this be reflected in the earnings statement? Is it a premium and an associated loss? Or any ideas? It's Rob.
Essentially you'll see a net fee coming through each quarter representing the -- sort of the risk premium fee being applied.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Plus whatever the payments are I guess.
Or is that netted out? Well the payments will be in exchange of the premium payments and then any benefit payment outflows that we need to make in accordance with fulfilling our obligation.
We'll take our final question from the line of Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just had one question that I'm hoping you can elaborate on something that perhaps we've touched on in the past in this forum which is the changing mortality tables or the changing lifespan tables that are coming in the pension area.
While I realize that that's not going to affect company's cash immediately as they restate their liabilities upward it's going to have the effect of all else the same increasing underfunded-ness as the Society of Actuaries table is instituted I guess at the end of this year.
My question is what's your best sense of how plan sponsors will respond? Will they adjust to this change by just putting more cash into their plan? Or will they say "We've had enough of this underfunded-ness " and they'll do more pension risk transfers? How will the typical CFO or Treasurer respond to this change in mortality table? Eric it's Steve.
I assume there will be some degree of response that covers both the bases you mentioned.
But we certainly do look for the new mortality tables to across -- pretty much on an overall basis increase propensity to transactions.
We think that aside from funding levels there are a couple of -- as we highlighted on Investor Day there are a couple of fundamental things going on in the marketplace in terms of how plan sponsors look at this liability.
One is the new mortality tables and the other is PBGC premium.
And so we think that the ongoing trends on both those fronts will increase propensity to transact.
And this highlights longevity risk and one of the big motives for transacting is the pure risk dimension.
And this kind of puts it right in front of everybody again.
And ladies and gentlemen today's conference call will be available for replay after 1:30 p.m.
today until midnight August 14.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 314091.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the third quarter 2014 earnings teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mark Finkelstein.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Cynthia.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Representing Prudential on today's call are John Strangfeld CEO; Mark Grier Vice Chairman; Charlie Lowrey Head of International Businesses; Steve Pelletier Head of Domestic Businesses; Rob Falzon Chief Financial Officer; and Rob Axel Controller and Principal Accounting Officer.
We will start with prepared comments by John Mark and Rob and then we will answer your questions.
In order help you understand Prudential Financial we will make some forward-looking statements in the following presentation.
It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today.
Additional information regarding factors that could cause such a difference appears in the section titled Forward-looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures of our earnings press release for the third quarter of 2014 which can be found on our website at www.investor.prudential.com.
In addition this presentation may include references to adjusted operating or to earnings per share or EPS; or return on equity or ROE which are determined based on adjusted operating income.
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services businesses that excludes certain items.
Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles GAAP and the excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations.
For a reconciliation of adjusted operating income to the comparable GAAP measure please see our earnings press release on our website.
Additional historical information relating to the company's financial performance is also located on our website.
John I'll hand it over to you.
Thank you Mark.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Prudential reported another good quarter and we are on track to meet or exceed our financial goals for the year.
Mark and Rob will walk you through the specifics impacting our drivers results and capital position.
I will focus my comments on overall highlights and themes.
The key message is we are pleased with where we are as a company and with our strategic initiatives designed to drive long-term growth and sustain returns above industry averages.
Excluding the impact of market-driven and discrete items our year-to-date adjusted operating income per share is 12% higher than a year ago.
Results have benefited from favorable investment results and better-than-expected underwriting margins in our insurance businesses.
While these are clear tailwinds the underlying fundamentals of our businesses are performing well and I will highlight just a few for the quarter.
Our Annuities business continues to show good core margins and returns.
Mark will walk through the results of our annual actuarial assumption update but we remain confident in the products we're selling the risk profile of the business and the returns we're achieving.
In Asset Management our third-party assets under management have increased 11% over the prior year with total net flows over the last 4 quarters of $12 billion.
While we saw modest net outflows this quarter this after 22 consecutive quarters of positive net flows importantly our overall investment performance remained strong.
Individual Life earnings reflect strong mortality performance in the quarter.
And while this will vary we have shown variable mortality experience relative to expectations in 8 of the last 9 quarters.
Our International business reported solid results.
Our Life Planner count grew sequentially about 2% and delivered solid year-over-year sales growth in each key market.
At Gibraltar we are seeing the benefits of the actions we have taken to improve the productivity of Life Consultant.
Sales through this channel were essentially unchanged from the prior year despite a 7% decline in our Life Consultant count.
Now I'd like to spend a few moments discussing the Retirement business and specifically pension risk transfer or as we call PRT.
Since June 30 we have completed or announced 5 transactions that could be considered larger deals by market standards.
This includes 2 funded pension buyouts where we were taking on about $4.5 billion in pension liabilities and 3 longevity reinsurance transactions where we're assuming the longevity risk on approximately $31 billion in pension liabilities.
While we have been in the pension buyout business for decades our success in winning larger PRT deals is directly attributable to the investment we began to make in 2006 when we first identified the opportunity at the larger end of the market.
At that time we built a dedicated team and supplemented this team with resources across Prudential.
As many of you know it took 6 years until we successfully executed the 2 largest pension buyout transactions ever in 2012 the GM and Verizon contracts.
Our ability to evaluate structure and close these complex transactions in a timely way and to seamlessly onboard over 150 000 retirees has given us proven market credibility which helps us succeed on subsequent transactions like the 5 we announced since June.
And importantly our process of evaluating these transactions which involves many layers of oversight have remained consistent and disciplined.
To sum up we're excited about the success we have had shown in this business and we like the risk and return profiles of the transactions we've announced.
And we view pension risk transfer as a source of future growth given our track record our reputation for successfully executing large and complex deals and the long-term growth characteristics of the market.
On another matter we're also excited with the recently announced memorandum of understanding to partner with ILC that will lead to Prudential indirectly acquiring 34% to 40% of AFP Habitat a leading Chilean retirement services provider.
We view this as an attractive use of capital to participate in the growing Chilean pension market and build on our Latin American businesses while doing so with an equal partner that has a strong track record and a terrific reputation in the local market.
With that I'll hand it over to Mark.
Thanks John.
Good morning good afternoon or good evening.
Thanks for joining us on the call today.
I'll take you through our results for the quarter.
And then I'll turn it over to Rob Falzon who will cover our capital and liquidity picture.
I'll start with an overview of our financial results for the quarter.
[Technical Difficulty] Hello.
I'm back.
Our system somehow went on mute by itself.
I'll start over.
I'll take you through the results for the quarter.
And then I'll turn it over to Rob Falzon who will cover our capital and liquidity picture.
And I apologize for the interruption.
I'll start with an overview of our financial results for the quarter shown on Slide 2.
On a reported basis common stock earnings per share amounted to $2.20 for the third quarter based on after tax adjusted operating income of the Financial Services businesses.
This compares to EPS of $2.89 a year ago.
After adjusting for market-driven and discrete items in both the current quarter and the year-ago quarter and the benefit of the current quarter results from a favorable catch-up in our effective tax rate EPS was up 5% amounting to $2.46 this quarter compared to $2.34 a year ago.
Looking across our businesses here are the main drivers of this comparison.
We benefited from higher fees reflecting growth and account values in our Annuities business and the contribution of recent longevity reinsurance transactions and retirement.
Our Asset Management business benefited from strong performance-based fees in the current quarter.
Our Individual Life and Group Insurance businesses benefited from more favorable claims experience.
And in our International Insurance business higher expenses including technology costs in the current quarter coupled with less favorable foreign currency exchange rates more than offset the benefit of continued business growth in the year-over-year comparison.
On a GAAP basis we reported net income of $465 million for the current quarter.
This reflects a non-AOI charge to increase our embedded derivative liability for annuity living benefits largely driven by our annual actuarial review and reflects the loss from foreign currency remeasurement driven by weakening of the Japanese yen.
The foreign currency remeasurement that affects our net income is an accounting presentation mismatch and it does not reflect the economics of our currency-matched assets and liabilities in Japan.
We hold currency-matched assets to support the non-yen liabilities of our Japanese insurance companies and the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations on the liabilities runs through the income statement while the offsetting impact on the assets is included in accumulated other comprehensive income or AOCI.
Book value per share excluding AOCI and after adjusting the numbers to remove the impact of this FX remeasurement mismatch amounted to $64.89 at the end of the third quarter up $4.90 from last year end after payment of 3 quarterly dividends totaling $1.59 per share.
Growth in book value plus dividends paid exceeded 10%.
We also evaluate our ROE performance after adjusting for the FX remeasurement mismatch which benefited our reported ROE by reducing the denominator.
After removing this benefit along with the impact on results from market-driven and discrete items our annualized ROE for the first 9 months of the year would be about 16%.
This reflects solid underlying performance across our businesses with tailwinds from strong non-coupon investment results and mortality more favorable on our average expectations in Individual Life and International Insurance.
Slide 3 presents the AOI impact of our assumption updates.
This years' annual review of actuarial assumptions had a net unfavorable impact of $186 million on pretax adjusted operating income or $0.26 per share.
The most significant items are $107 million charge in Group Insurance to strengthen long-term disability reserves including an update of our estimate for the benefit of Social Security claims offsets and a $63 million charge in Individual Life to adjust the amortization and reserves giving effect to refinements in our approach to estimating gross profits and guaranteed benefit costs.
Turning to Slide 4.
The remainder of this quarter's list of market-driven and discrete items included in our results is short.
In the Annuities business performance of our separate account funds in the current quarter was less favorable than our expectations and we strengthened our reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits and adjusted DAC resulting in a net charge of $0.07 per share.
And in Individual Life we absorbed integration cost of about $0.01 per share related to the Hartford Life acquisition.
In total the items I just mentioned including the impact of the annual actuarial reserve had a net unfavorable impact of $0.34 per share on third quarter results.
In addition a favorable catch-up in our effective tax rate contributed $0.08 per share to our results for the current quarter mitigating a portion of the impact of the market-driven and discrete items.
This catch-up reflects a downward change in our estimate of the full year effective rate applicable to our pretax adjusted operating income.
During the year-ago quarter market-driven and discrete items produced a net benefit of $0.55 per share mainly driven by favorable DAC and reserve updates in the annuity business reflecting the annual review of actuarial assumptions and strong performance of our separate account funds in the quarter.
Moving to Slide 5.
On a GAAP basis our net income of $465 million in the current quarter includes amounts characterized as net realized investment losses of $1.1 billion comprised of the items you see here.
The $970 million loss from product-related embedded derivatives and hedging included a $631 million charge from the annual actuarial review for variable annuities largely driven by updated lapse assumptions.
While our experience on living benefit guarantees is still limited enhanced analytics combined with industry data has enabled us to refine our approach in predicting customer behavior.
The key refinements include making expected lapses on products with living benefit guarantees sensitive to the level of interest rates.
These changes caused us to lower our expected level of lapses for most of our contracts in-force.
The charge reflects GAAP guidelines for valuing embedded derivatives including a risk-neutral framework for estimating growth and account values over decades.
We believe that this accounting paradigm overstates the true liability and the result would be different under conventional insurance accounting.
The remainder of the $970 million loss from product-embedded derivatives and hedging reflected mark-to-market on our GAAP liability for variable annuity living benefits including the impact of changes in interest rates during the quarter.
Foreign currency remeasurement driven by a weakening of the Japanese yen in relation to the U.S.
dollar and other currencies in which we issue products in Japan resulted in a pretax loss of $576 million for the current quarter.
Impairments and credit losses on investments were $37 million for the quarter.
Going the other way mark-to-market on derivatives mainly related to management of currency exposures and asset liability durations resulted in a $328 million pretax gain and general portfolio activities mainly in our International Insurance operations resulted in net pretax gains of $123 million.
Moving to our business results and starting on Slide 6.
This slide shows our U.S.
Retirement Solutions and Investment Management businesses.
This is a view of the results of these businesses showing the adjustments we made for actuarial reviews market unlockings and experienced true-ups to get a view of underlying performance relative to a year ago.
Slide 7 highlights Individual Annuities.
After adjusting for market-driven and discrete items annuities results were $403 million for the quarter an increase of $33 million from a year ago.
Turning to Slide 8.
Most of our operating earnings in the annuities business come from base contract charges linked to daily account values.
Measured point to point account values at the end of the third quarter increased by 6% from a year ago driven by market appreciation over the past year.
However the increase in average daily account values for the quarter outstripped the point-to-point increase producing a 10% increase in policy charges and fees.
The benefit of higher fees net of associated expenses was partly offset by a lower contribution from investment results resulting in a 9% increase in earnings from the year-ago quarter.
Slide 9 shows the trend in annuity sales.
Our gross annuity sales for the quarter were $2.6 billion up by roughly $200 million from a year ago.
Net sales were $392 million.
We've adapted our variable annuity product line to diversify the risk exposures associated with our product guarantees and to enhance our ability to maintain appropriate pricing and return expectations under changing market conditions.
As you see on this slide our Prudential-defined income or PDI product has become a significant contributor to our sales mix.
Sales of PDI shown in the light blue bars amounted to $459 million or about 20% of overall sales for the current quarter roughly consistent with the contribution over the past few quarters and about double the relative contribution of a year ago.
PDI directs a client's entire investment to a separate account fixed-income portfolio that we manage.
And PDI provides a guaranteed lifetime income amount which is determined by applying an income payout percentage which is based on the client's age at time of purchase to the premium paid.
The payout percentage grows at a contractual roll-up rate until lifetime withdrawals begin.
The design of PDI allows us to change both the income payout rate and the roll-up rate for new business enabling us to keep pricing in sync with changes in market conditions including interest rates.
Since PDI allows us to reprice more rapidly than other lifetime income guarantee products in the marketplace its competitive position changes as we maintain appropriate target in returns and our sales are an outcome of that process.
Sales of our highest daily suite or HDI products shown in the dark blue bars accounted for $1.8 billion of our current quarter sales down slightly from the year-ago quarter.
Similar to PDI our current generation product HDI 3.0 also allows us to change key pricing elements including the roll-up rate for protected withdrawal value that determines the base for lifetime income and the withdrawal percentages for various age band as often as monthly for new business.
The remainder of our current quarter sales about $300 million represents annuities without living benefit guarantees.
This includes early sales of our recently introduced Prudential Premier Investment Variable Annuity product which does not offer these guarantees and unbundles guaranteed minimum death benefits as an optional add-on.
We see a market opportunity in serving clients who are focused on tax-deferred asset growth potential and are in the initial stages of introducing this product to our distribution partners.
Slide 10 highlights the Retirement business.
After stripping out the impact of refinements reflecting our annual actuarial reviews earnings for the Retirement business amounted to $269 million for the current quarter an increase of $28 million from a year ago.
The increase was largely driven by a $21 million greater contribution from net investment results.
Investment income for the current quarter includes about $35 million of returns that we would consider to be above-average expectation on non-coupon asset classes.
The remainder of the increase in earnings came mainly from higher fees including the contribution from the longevity reinsurance transactions that closed in July partly offset by higher expenses.
Turning to Slide 11.
Total retirement gross deposits and sales for the current quarter were $36.2 billion including $29 billion for the 2 significant longevity reinsurance transactions that we closed in July covering about 212 000 retirees in total.
Unlike funded pension risk transfer transactions like GM and Verizon where we took on both asset risk and longevity risk in these transactions we assumed only the risk of participant longevity and the cash flows take the form of monthly fees and net settlements rather than a significant transfer of assets to us on day 1.
Since we haven't taken on significant asset risk the capital charges per dollar of notional amount are substantially lower than they would be in a funded transaction.
We are now separately reporting the balances for longevity reinsurance investment-only stable value wraps and group annuities including funded pension risk transfer cases in our financial supplement.
This provides additional transparency given their different economics in relation to notional amount.
Excluding the longevity reinsurance transaction stand-alone institutional gross sales were roughly $2 billion in the current quarter compared to $5 billion a year ago.
Current quarter sales include $660 million from stable value wrap products while the year-ago quarter included $4.1 billion of those sales.
With about $70 billion of this fee-based business on the books as of September 30 we face concentration limits with a number of counter-parties and competition has increased in the market for these products with a greater number of wrap providers.
Full Service gross deposits and sales shown in the dark blue bars were $5.2 billion for the quarter compared to $5.5 billion a year ago.
The timing of attractive large case opportunities in the full service market leads to a variable sales pattern from one quarter to another.
During the current quarter we closed 3 cases of over $100 million each totaling about $800 million while the year-ago quarter included a major case win for $1.3 billion.
Total Retirement account values amounted to $356 billion at the end of the third quarter up by $44 billion from a year ago.
Slide 12 highlights the Asset Management business.
The Asset Management business reported adjusted operating income of $200 million for the current quarter compared to $173 million a year ago.
While most of the segment's results come from Asset Management fees the increase from the year-ago quarter included a $21 million greater contribution from what we call the other related revenues which includes incentive transaction strategic investing and commercial mortgage activities.
This was driven by strong performance-based incentive fees in the quarter.
The contribution from other related revenues which amounted to $36 million for the current quarter is inherently variable since it reflects changing valuation and the timing of transactions.
The benefits of results of continued growth in Asset Management fees was largely offset by higher expenses in the current quarter.
The segment's assets under management amounted to $918 billion at the end of the third quarter including $544 billion managed for institutional and retail clients.
Third-party AUM increased by 11% from a year ago driven by market appreciation along with about $12 billion of net flows over the past year.
Net institutional outflows of $1.4 billion in the current quarter were driven by equities and included some client rebalancing of portfolios to reduce the weighting of some domestic equity product classes.
These outflows were largely offset by net retail inflows of $1.2 billion.
Slide 13 shows the results of our U.S.
Individual Life and Group Insurance businesses showing the adjustments for refinements and updates reflecting our actual reviews and showing the Hartford integration costs in Individual Life.
Slide 14 highlights Individual Life.
After adjusting for market-driven and discrete items Individual Life earnings were $168 million for the current quarter compared to $145 million a year ago.
The $23 million increase was driven by a greater contribution from mortality experience.
Claims experience was favorable both in the current quarter and the year-ago quarter.
The contribution to current quarter results from mortality experience together with recurring reserve updates was about $40 million more favorable than our average expectations.
Slide 15 shows Individual Life sales based on annualized new business premiums which amounted to $97 million for the current quarter.
This compares to sales of $165 million a year ago.
The $68 million decrease was mainly driven by a $61 million decline in sales of guaranteed universal life insurance products shown in the dark blue bars.
This decline is directionally consistent with the recent trend we've seen across companies and distributors.
The latest available data for the first half of the year shows a 40% decline in industry sales of guaranteed universal life from a year earlier.
Our sales decrease also reflects actions we've taken to limit concentration in these products and maintain appropriate returns including a series of price increases and actions taken by some competitors to enter the market or make their products relatively more attractive.
Term insurance sales in the light blue bars were down $5 million from a year ago reflecting price reductions by several competitors.
In August we implemented pricing changes on several of our guaranteed universal life and term insurance products enhancing our competitive position where we see opportunities to offer attractive value propositions with appropriate expected returns.
Since the underwriting and issue process typically takes up to 90 days from the time of a policy application these repricings did not have a significant impact on our current quarter sales.
Slide 16 highlights the Group Insurance business.
After adjusting for reserve refinements reflecting our actuarial reviews Group Insurance earnings amounted to $34 million in the current quarter compared to $23 million a year ago.
The $11 million increase was driven by more favorable claims experience in Disability partly offset by less favorable claims experience in Group Life.
Slide 17 presents benefit ratios for Group Life and Group Disability.
In Group Disability favorable current quarter claims experience including development of existing cases and fewer new cases drove an improvement of about 11 percentage points in the benefits ratio compared to the year-ago quarter after removing the impact of the reserve refinements as shown in the dark blue bars.
While we've taken steps to improve results experience will vary from one quarter to another and improvements won't be linear.
On a similar adjusted basis the Group Life benefits ratio was less favorable than a year ago reflecting higher average claims size in the current quarter.
Moving on to International Insurance on Slide 18.
This slide shows the results of our International Insurance business adjusting for the refinements reflecting our actuarial reviews and the Star and Edison integration costs and Gibraltar Life a year ago.
Slide 19 highlights our Life Planner operations.
After adjusting for market-driven and discrete items our Life Planner business reported earnings of $397 million for the quarter down $8 million from a year ago.
Higher expenses in the current quarter including technology and distribution costs more than offset the benefits of continued business growth and more favorable claims experience.
Mortality was favorable in both the current quarter and the year-ago quarter and we estimate that the contribution to current quarter results was about $20 million more favorable than our average expectations.
In addition foreign currency exchange rates which reflect our hedging of yen income at JPY 82 this year versus JPY 80 last year had a negative impact of $4 million on earnings in comparison to a year ago.
We have completed the hedging of our expected yen earnings for 2015 and our hedging rate for next year will be JPY 91 per U.S.
dollar.
Slide 20 highlights Gibraltar Life and other operations.
After adjusting for the items I mentioned Gibraltar Life reported earnings of $446 million for the current quarter down $24 million from a year ago.
Policy benefits experience including mortality and gains on surrenders was less favorable in the current quarter than a year ago.
And current quarter results reflected a higher level of expenses than the year-ago quarter largely driven by technology costs.
In addition foreign currency exchange rates had a negative impact of $10 million on the comparison of results to a year ago.
Turning to Slide 21.
International Insurance sales on a constant-dollar basis were $743 million for the current quarter an increase of $35 million or 5% from a year ago.
Slide 21 is a product view of our sales.
Our sales pattern has been affected by actions we've taken including changes in our product lineup.
In addition the seasonal sales trend favors the first quarter for our Japanese Life Planner business and favors the second quarter for Gibraltar Life.
Our yen-based single-premium bank channel product shown in the brown bars which we discontinued late last year after cumulative sales of more than $1 billion contributed $49 million to sales at Gibraltar Life in the year-ago quarter.
Excluding the discontinued product International Insurance sales increased by $84 million from a year ago.
Sales of annuities substantially all of which are fixed annuities denominated in Australian and U.S.
dollars contributed $51 million of the increase as you can see in the gold bars.
These products which have been popular among Gibraltar's customers are repriced every 2 weeks for new business to stay in sync with current interest rates and account value adjustments apply in the event of surrender to reflect interest rate changes after the sale.
The remainder of the sales increase came from $25 million greater sales of U.S.
dollar-denominated whole life and retirement income products and $8 million of growth in sales for other products such as term insurance.
Slide 22 breaks out Life Planner sales.
Life Planner sales were $298 million in the current quarter up $40 million or 16% from a year ago.
Sales by our Life Planners in Japan were $192 million in the current quarter up $15 million from a year ago.
As shown in the gold bars sales of U.S.
dollar-denominated whole life and retirement income products increased by $10 million to $47 million for the current quarter.
The remainder of the increase came from other products shown in the dark blue bars including term insurance.
Sales outside of Japan in the light blue bars were up by $25 million from a year ago mainly driven by increases in Korea and Brazil.
Slide 23 shows Gibraltar Life sales.
Sales from Gibraltar Life were $445 million in the current quarter compared to $450 million a year ago.
Sales by Life Consultants in the dark blue bars amounted to $196 million for the current quarter essentially unchanged from a year ago.
Productivity of our Life Consultants measured by policy sold per agent per month has essentially returned to the level we achieved prior to our acquisition of Star and Edison.
This reflects the results of our implementation of minimum production requirements and other quality standards for the sales force that came to us with the acquisition.
This increased productivity entirely offset a decline in the number of Life Consultants of about 700 or 7% over the past year.
Sales through the bank channel shown in the gold bars amounted to $177 million for the current quarter down by $23 million from a year ago.
This decrease reflects the $49 million of sales of the discontinued single-premium product in the year-ago quarter that I mentioned earlier partly offset by a $26 million increase in sales of other products including fixed annuities and recurring premium whole life.
Sales through independent agents shown in the light blue bars amounted to $72 million in the current quarter up by $17 million from a year ago.
The increase was driven mainly by greater sales of fixed annuities and Death Protection products.
Slide 24 shows the results of Corporate and Other operations.
After adjusting for a charge in the current quarter to strengthen our reserves for obligations to pre-demutualization policyholders Corporate and Other operations reported a loss of $320 million for the current quarter compared to a $312 million loss a year ago.
The increase in the loss reflects higher net expenses in the current quarter including the impact of a lower pension credit.
Now I'll turn it over to Rob Falzon.
Thanks Mark.
I'm going to give you an update on some key items under the heading of Financial Strength and Flexibility starting with Slide 25.
We continue to manage our insurance companies to levels of capital that we believe are consistent with AA standards.
At the end of last year Prudential Insurance reported an RBC ratio of 456% with total adjusted capital or TAC of $13.9 billion.
While we don't perform a quarterly bottoms-up RBC calculation we estimate that our RBC ratio continues to be well above our 400% target after giving effect to results for the first 9 months of the year.
In Japan Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar Life reported strong solvency margins of 835% and 967% respectively as of June 30.
These reported solvency margins are also well above our targets.
Looking at the overall capital position for the Financial Services businesses on Slide 26.
We calculate our balance sheet capital capacity by comparing the statutory capital position of Prudential Insurance [Technical Difficulty] This is Rob Falzon.
I'm going to continue on.
We apologize for having a modest problem with our system.
I think where I left off before it cut off we were turning to Slide 26 after having covered the solvency margins for our Japan businesses.
So looking at the overall capital position for the Financial Services businesses on Slide 26 we calculate our on-balance sheet capital capacity by comparing the statutory capital position of Prudential Insurance to our 400% RBC ratio target and then add capital capacity held at the parent company and other subsidiaries.
At the end of last year we estimated that our on-balance sheet capital capacity was about $3.5 billion including about $1.5 billion that we considered readily deployable.
During the first 9 months of this year we returned about $1.5 billion to shareholders.
These returns came in the form of 3 quarterly common stock dividends of $0.53 each per share in each quarter for a total of about $740 million and the repurchase of $750 million of our common stock.
This includes $250 million of repurchases during the third quarter under the $1 billion June board authorization which extends through June 30 of next year.
Net of these returns of capital our available on-balance sheet capital capacity was about $5 billion before funding of our investment in AFP Habitat in Chile which we expect to close in the first half of 2015 with the purchase price of $530 million to $620 million.
We will consider about $1.5 billion of our capital capacity to be readily deployable.
Turning to the cash position at the parent company.
Cash and short-term investments net of outstanding commercial paper amounted to $4 billion as of the end of the third quarter.
This reflects senior debt issuances of $600 million during the quarter.
The cash in excess of our targeted $1.3 billion liquidity cushion is available to repay maturing operating debt to fund operating needs and to redeploy over time for strategic and capital management purposes.
Now I'll turn it back over to John.
Thank you Rob.
Thank you Mark.
And we'd like to now open it up for questions.
Yes we are.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll first go to the line of Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> With the annuities and the change in lapse assumptions some other companies are also talking about utilization as being an offset.
Interested whether you've recalibrated your utilization assumptions there as well.
Nigel it's Rob Falzon.
We actually looked at all of the assumptions that went into that calculation so utilization efficiency et cetera were included in that.
The primary driver however to the assumption update was lapse and the lapse sensitivity to interest rates.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then a second question on Asset Management.
If we exclude out the other related revenues seems like the core ROE came down pretty meaningfully this quarter.
Seemed like it was on meaningfully higher expenses so just hoping to get some additional color as to what's happening there.
Nigel this is Steve.
Our growth in fees was commensurate with the growth in assets but we did have growth in expenses as you note.
Some of that was onetime in nature but the remainder of it reflected our continued investment in the long-term growth of the business.
Next we'll go to the line of Tom Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The first question I had is just on the Group Disability reserve charge of around $100 million.
You -- Mark you had referenced Social Security offsets.
Can you give a little more color for what's going on there? Are they getting harder to come by now? Is something changed with the Social Security offsets? Tom this is Steve.
I'll address your question.
This does not reflect a change in the external environment external to ourselves regarding this.
We have refined our methodology about assessing the probability that a certain segment of our claimants will receive Social Security disability and the reserve strengthening that we did this quarter reflects that refund.
Research Division</strong> So -- but you haven't seen any change in behavior nor amount of Social Security offsets.
It's more assessing future probabilities going lower I assume? That's correct.
It's a refinement in our own methodologies around that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then related to the VA charge was there a statutory earnings impact? And I believe last year when you did this there was a statutory earnings impact but there wasn't a capital impact.
Can you comment on those 2 issues? Tom it's Rob Falzon.
So yes recall that from a statutory standpoint we used a modified GAAP accounting that defines our hedge targets.
So yes there was a statutory impact.
Yes it also had a capital consequence associated with it.
However the numbers that we've quoted you with regard to our total capital capacity and readily deployable factor that in and so they're after the effects of the capital impact.
Research Division</strong> And so Rob would that have included -- so would that have been resources that were available within PRU global funding? Or how was that funded? The -- we have resources across the firm so it was a combination of capacity that we had within the annuities -- legal entity businesses to absorb that in addition to funding that we've provided from other parts of the organization.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last one if I could sneak it in.
The Retirement business I guess the results had been quite strong in the first part of the year got a little bit weaker this quarter and I believe it was underwriting-related.
Is 10% to 15% quarterly swings in earnings volatility due to underwriting something we should expect going forward? Or was there something unusual about this quarter? Tom it's Steve.
I'll address your question.
I wouldn't draw long-term expectations around this quarter.
Our first and second quarter case experience was very very strong relative to our assumptions and expectations.
Our third quarter experience was also positive relative to our expectations but not to the same extent as we saw in the first and second quarter and that's really about the extent of it.
Our next question will come from the line of Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could discuss competition for the jumbo PRT deals and current pricing in the market in particular given Motorola's comments about paying no premium.
It would just be helpful to get your perspective on if and how the economics have changed and why you're comfortable that these blocks are -- will generate attractive returns.
Erik it's Steve.
I'll address your question.
First of all just to emphasize a point John made in his opening remarks and that is that we're very pleased with the returns on the business we've written this year.
Those returns are thoroughly consistent with our corporate return objectives.
Second the statements that you're referencing about par or above par or at par those comments are all in relation to a plan sponsor's GAAP valuation of its pension liability.
From one plan sponsor to another those valuations can be impacted by a whole range of factors including in particular whether a given plan sponsor is using old or new mortality tables in its valuation of the liability.
Frankly that's all pretty much irrelevant to us.
We use a consistent and very disciplined methodology with multiple layers of oversight in order to arrive at our customized view from the ground up of the economic risks that we're taking on in a given transaction.
That view is based on information that ranges far beyond the Society of Actuaries mortality tables.
It includes industry data it includes our own extensive experience in managing mortality risk and it includes the -- especially in the large case market the extensive census data that a plan sponsor supplies us on their retirees.
So we're very very confident in the approach that we take in that regard.
Finally I'd make some remarks regarding the different role that price plays in different segments of the market and this reflects certainly our own competitive experience but also the input that we've consistently received from plan sponsors and their advisors.
In the large case market price certainly matters and there's a need to be competitive on pricing.
In particular pricing serves as a factor in winnowing down the competitive universe from the initial list to a very short list of finalists.
We find that pricing among those finalists is typically within a very narrow band and that the plan sponsor's choice are based on assessment of certain critical factors that John mentioned in his opening comments.
The ability of an insurer to execute large and complex transactions and to bring them to a successful and timely close and the ability to on-board literally tens of thousands of retirees in a seamless way that provides them a quality client experience.
We have an established track record in this regard and that gives plan sponsors a lot of confidence.
The small market and here I'm talking about a few hundred million and below is very different.
It is a market in which the business process really is that of a price-based option.
And so when we back up and look at our experience we're writing relatively more than our fair share of business in the large case market where these capabilities and our ability to differentiate ourselves comes into play in the eyes of plan sponsors and we're writing if you will less than our fair share of business in the segment of the market that tends to be all about price.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And how should we think about interest risk related to these transactions? And you're doing retiree blocks so are you able to pretty tightly match the assets and liabilities? Yes that's a real good point Erik.
The -- very often the point about retirees is obviously seen as a mitigator as it relates to longevity risk but it's also a significant mitigator in relation to interest rate risk.
These are people who are already drawing their payments.
The payment schedule is set.
There's no more optionality or behavioral risk in these cash flows and we're able to match them very closely.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And how much risk is there if rates move between when a transaction is announced and when it's closed? We have contractual provisions to adjust closing pricing for rate movements between announcement and closing.
Our next question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I've a question about the assumption review and especially around the Individual Life insurance business how you change the long-term path for investment yields there in your current view versus your former view.
And I guess specifically does that have any influence on your view of the return potential for the Hartford Life block? John it's Rob Falzon.
So we actually only made a relatively modest change to our long-term view of interest rates.
So prior to the current quarter using the 10-year as a benchmark we had set that at 4.65%.
We brought that down to 4.5% and then a corresponding adjustment to the rest of the yield curve.
The only other adjustment that was made is the method through which we migrate to that long-term reversion rate was modified where we use the forward curve now for a 2-year period and then linearly move out of the long-term assumption for the remaining 8 years.
That in and of itself is a relatively modest change and would not otherwise alter the view that we would have with respect to the economics on the Hartford transaction or in any material way our other blocks.
Research Division</strong> Terrific.
And then just a question on G&amp;A overall general and administrative expenses overall for the company.
I think you mentioned in a couple of occasion -- a couple of segments that expense levels were a little bit elevated in the current quarter.
Is there any reason we should expect that -- in those couple of instances Life Planner a few other places should we trend from this level? Or is some of that IT spending and other spending one-off? So John in the -- we have not called out to the -- to you or to anyone any normalization of the expenses that we had in the current quarter with respect to any of the businesses on an overall basis.
So I think that's the best way that I can answer that question.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly just on the Chilean partnership.
When you fund that sometime in the first half of 2015 where do you expect that funding will come from? Will it come from the parent? Or will it come from one of the international operating subsidiaries? And should we expect that that funding -- we should reduce the expectation for buybacks by a like amount like you did when you did Hartford? Yes.
So the overall level of funding for this recall that the transaction will be somewhere around $600 million.
So it's a relatively modest-sized transaction and it will be closing during the course of the first half of next year.
We have adequate readily deployable capital as we've articulated.
In order to complete that acquisition and absent any other events funding for this would not alter any existing capital redeployment plans that we would have.
Our next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So the first question just related to the previous one on given the Chilean deal but also more importantly the number of pension closeout and longevity transactions you've announced recently.
Should we assume that you would be less proactive on share buybacks going forward than you have been because you're using a lot of capital in those deals? And then secondly you've spoken about this a couple of times in your prepared remarks.
But on the pension closeout deal you won a disproportionate share of the deals that have been done in the large case market.
So just wondering what's allowing you to win these deals other than the price? And how like what -- maybe if you could just give us a little bit more detail on what type of returns that you're earning on these and like you've said consistent with your long-term objectives wondering if you could just talk a little bit more specific on the type of returns you're assuming and what you're earning on the deals that you've done over the past couple of years? Jimmy it's Rob.
I'll handle the first part of your question and I'm going to turn it over to Steve for the second part of your question.
I think it almost repeat what I said just prior to your question.
We would -- both in terms of when we got the authorization for our stock buyback program back in June for the $1 billion and then with respect to how we're thinking about Habitat all of that considered our expectations with regard to our ability to fund our continuing business including our PRT business.
And neither of those events either our success with PRT or the Habitat acquisition would cause us to otherwise think about altering the existing capital redeployment plans that we have.
And then second part I'll turn it over to Steve.
Jimmy this is Steve.
I won't characterize our returns on the transactions beyond what I said which is that like you said we like the returns on the business we've written.
Those -- they're in line with our corporate return expectations.
In regard to capabilities I'd mention the comments that John made at the outset which is these are capabilities we've been investing in since 2006 in terms of the dedicated team.
Also we have a proven methodology for taking the resources of that dedicated team and connecting them to our resources across the company that are involved in successful and timely execution of these deals.
That would include our asset liability management our investment management our actuarial and our legal area as well in our ability to execute documentation in a ready fashion.
That is a path of certainty that we can offer plan sponsors from the very outset of these transactions.
We're able to give them a calendar for how they should expect matters to progress along this path and that is a calendar that we have consistently followed through on in the different transactions we've done and that creates like I say kind of a virtuous cycle about plan sponsor confidence in our ability to execute on these transactions.
Research Division</strong> And I can understand you're not disclosing specifics on a certain deal but I think one thing that might be helpful in the future is given that you've done a number of these now that at least give us some idea on what actual returns have been because whether it's right or wrong given how many of these deals have been announced and what proportion of those you've earned you've ended up getting -- there's a concern out there that may be Prudential's being aggressive on pricing.
But that's for something for you to evaluate in the future.
Jimmy it's Mark.
Let me add 2 elements of color on this.
One point is that the deals to date have outperformed our assumptions and expectations on both liabilities and assets.
But secondly I said early on in questions about these deals particularly after we had just done GM and Verizon that if these were done in a stand-alone company you would want to buy that company and I would stand by that comment.
I believe that on a risk return basis appropriately considering the entire deal and capitalization these attractive are opportunities for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And lastly just on the Institutional Asset Management business.
Your flows have been consistently positive for a number of years.
This quarter it was a negative.
So just if you can give us a little bit of color and whether it's more of an aberration or is there something that's changed in terms of your performance or anything else that drove the results this quarter? No Jimmy.
This is Steve.
I'd call it more of an aberration.
It was driven by some rebalancing activities by equity clients and also the planned unwinding of an Asian real estate fund.
When -- obviously flows can be lumpy and it's of course it's unfortunate to see a streak ending but when we look at our investment performance that continues to give us great confidence in our ability to garner flows in this business going forward.
Our next question will come from the line of Randy Binner with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just have a couple of follow-ups.
One is just on what Jimmy was asking about return expectations with the various pension closeout activities.
Can you remind us of what your corporate return expectations are versus your cost of capital to maybe help triangulate the return question? Randy it's Rob Falzon.
We have a stated target objective of 13% to 14% and we think that that provides a handsome premium over our cost of capital.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I think in the past when you've kind of identified businesses that are above or below that target to kind of average to the return where would pension fall on that continuum where Japan would be lower and then some of the annuity activities will be higher? Yes Randy we don't...
Japan's higher.
Research Division</strong> Say again? Japan's a lot higher.
The actual returns that we post on our Japan business are actually with all -- well the risk would merit a lower hurdle rate.
The actual returns against that have actually been well above what you would benchmark as a hurdle rate for that business.
Having said that Randy we actually don't provide any visibility toward individual hurdle rates for any of our segment businesses.
We just articulate that in the context of the overall company objectives because our mix of business and the capital that we deploy in it will change over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then on the group charge and just kind of following up on the Social Security piece of that.
I guess a couple.
One is do you have any sense that Prudential's book would have more Social Security reimbursement exposure than a normal book? And then on that charge was it mostly due to the Social Security recoverability issue? Or was there another major piece of the charge in the group area? There's nothing -- Randy this is Steve.
There's nothing about our business that is materially different about the Social Security matter.
As I said this is a refinement of our own methodologies.
The second part of your question was in regard to...
Research Division</strong> Well I'm just trying to reconcile I think intuitively you're having good current year development or activity as you stated.
But -- so then I'm trying to reconcile that with this kind of -- these refinements and so Social Security has come out as a piece of which it makes sense.
Is there another big piece and kind of how big of a piece of the charge was the Social Security item? We made an across-the-board update of our actuarial assumptions and there were a variety of impacts but the Social Security offset matter was the biggest piece.
Our next question will come from the line of Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I actually have just one question today.
You've emphasized that the pension risk transfer business on one hand and the longevity reinsurance business on the other are really quite different from each other in terms of capital requirements the profits that come out the funding one is funded the other is not.
Do you prefer one business over the other? Is one business a better business than the other? Eric this is Steve.
We view -- well first of all we view this as a business and we see longevity reinsurance and funded pension risk transfer business as different parts of that business.
We view these as actually highly highly complementary to each other.
They are complementary to each other in terms of the capabilities that we were speaking about earlier.
The insights we garner from one part of the business can help inform our risk management and our pricing in another part of the business.
And we also see them as highly complementary from a financial result standpoint.
Pension risk transfer business funded pension risk transfer business our earnings tend to decay gradually over time as the book runs off.
Longevity reinsurance the earnings profile actually escalates over time as our actuarial certainty about outcomes progresses as time elapses.
So I'd say both from a strategic and from a financial standpoint they're highly complementary.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I could just ask one quick follow-up.
Is there any reason as an industrial company or another old-line industrial company or another plan sponsor I realize you have newer companies with defined benefits plans so lets' just talk about a plan sponsor in general.
As a plan sponsor thinks about sort of getting out of the pension business or reducing its exposure to pension what sort of considerations would prompt it to choose one approach over the other? Meaning funded versus longevity swap? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes please.
I think Eric we find that at least to date in the U.S.
market the funded business has been the primary of choice.
Whereas in the U.K.
and also starting to extend into other markets like Canada and the Netherlands we see the longevity reinsurance market as being at this stage much more highly developed and that's the way a lot of companies choose to go.
But that could emerge in the U.S.
market as well.
But right now we see the differentiation as largely a geographical one.
And that will be from the line of Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on the Social Security issue first and I just want to make sure I understand this.
From the initial comments it sounded to me like it was one part of the business that was affected by the Social Security refinement.
Is that accurate? Yes.
It's our Group Insurance Disability business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No no no.
I meant like one cohort or one type of risk or something like that? Or it was just more general? No.
We refined our methodologies in how we assess the likelihood of claimants to receive Social Security disability especially around our segmentation of claimants.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well that's what I meant the segmentation of claimants.
So that's somehow -- but it wasn't necessarily one or the other.
That's what I was trying to get to.
What that means -- what does that mean segmentation of claimants? That means we refined the extent to which -- how we vary our assessment of probability from one segment to the next.
A much more granular approach.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right that's what I want to get to okay.
And then if we could stick on the actuarial stuff.
With regards to the change in lapse assumptions on the variable annuities what was it about interest rates? I mean I would think that lower interest rates older people obviously they've got nowhere to go.
They would stick with their policies but that's not what you're talking about here is it? No Steven this is Steve again.
We changed our approach quite significantly this year to a much more sophisticated approach towards lapsation.
Previously our approach had been fundamentally based on "In-the-Moneyness" of the guarantee and that's kind of an industry standard approach.
Now we're focusing on the ability of a policyholder to replicate the income stream from our guarantee through other sources other sources that might be available in the marketplace.
As such that makes this approach much more sense -- so that makes our lapse assumptions under this approach much more sensitive to interest rate movements.
And ladies and gentlemen today's conference call will be available for replay after 2 p.m.
today until midnight November 13.
You may access the AT&amp;T Teleconference replay system by dialing (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 314092.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the fourth quarter 2014 earnings teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Mark Finkelstein.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Cynthia.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Representing Prudential on today's call are John Strangfeld CEO; Mark Grier Vice Chairman; Charlie Lowrey Head of International Businesses; Steve Pelletier Head of Domestic Businesses; Rob Falzon Chief Financial Officer; and Rob Axel Controller and Principal Accounting Officer.
We will start with prepared comments by John Mark and Rob and then we will answer your questions.
Today's presentation may include forward-looking statements.
It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today.
In addition this presentation may include references to non-GAAP measures.
For a reconciliation of such measures to the comparable GAAP measures and a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements please see the section titled Forward-looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measure of our earnings press release which can be found on our website at www.investor.prudential.com.
John I'll hand it over to you.
Thank you Mark.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Our fourth quarter results were a little lighter than the other quarters of the year partly due to seasonality.
But overall we feel very good about 2014.
More specifically operating -- adjusted operating income excluding market-driven and discrete items was $9.84 per share for the full year 2014 which is an increase of 10% over 2013 and exceeded the expectation we established in guidance.
Likewise our ROE for the year exceeded our 13% to 14% long-term target range.
Results benefited from tailwinds such as strong non-coupon investment income favorable equity markets and better-than-expected underwriting experience.
Nonetheless we are pleased with the positioning of our businesses and the prospects going forward and would like to highlight just a few.
Our annuity business benefited from favorable equity markets that contributed to 15% adjusted operating income growth excluding market-driven and discrete items in 2014.
Additionally we are pleased that our newer products like Prudential Defined Income which isn't equity-centric are gaining traction and collectively represent over 20% of total annuity sales in the second half of 2014.
Retirement had a record earnings year with strong momentum in pension risk transfer.
We originated over $37 billion in total buyout and longevity account values in 2014 including the landmark $27 billion British Telecom longevity transaction.
Asset Management reported $5.4 billion in positive unaffiliated third-party net flows in 2014.
And assets under management grew 8% over year end 2013.
While net flows in the second half of the year were less robust solid underlying investment performance and business momentum keeps us optimistic that this will continue to be a good story going forward.
Individual Life sales improved sequentially in the fourth quarter following selective product repricing in August and we like our competitive positioning and business mix.
We've also benefited from favorable mortality in 9 out of the last 10 quarters.
The Group Insurance business continues to benefit from repricing actions better underwriting discipline and improved claim handling processes.
And while we're not ready to declare victory yet our underwriting trends are certainly moving in the right direction.
Our International businesses continue to perform well.
Life Planner net premiums policy charges and fees grew a little over 6% on a constant-currency basis in 2014 and we continue to grow our Life Planner count while maintaining high standards.
Gibraltar Life Consultant productivity has returned to levels last seen prior to the Star/Edison acquisition.
We are also now showing signs of stabilization in the Life Consultant count after raising productivity standards.
Additionally we have shown progress in growing our independent agency channel and improving our mix of businesses in the bank channel.
Capital management was also a key theme in 2014.
We paid $1 billion in common stock dividends and repurchased $1 billion of our shares.
We also look forward to the closing of our transaction with ILC to acquire an ownership stake in AFP Habitat a leading Chilean retirement services provider following our signing of the memorandum of understanding in late 2014.
In addition our restructuring of the Closed Block business to repurchase the Class B shares and redeem the IHC debt simplifies our operating structure and added financial flexibility.
And while the size of our below-the-line charges during the year was disappointing we maintained a strong capital level and good balance sheet flexibility.
Rob Falzon will discuss our capital strength in more detail in a few minutes.
As we look forward we cannot assume the same tailwinds that we benefited from in 2014 will recur and we're mindful of the need to navigate more challenging headwinds like the weaker yen and if early 2015 is any indication potentially lower-than-expected interest rates as examples.
Nonetheless our diversified portfolio of high-quality businesses our strategic positioning and the quality of our talent keeps us optimistic that we will maintain a top-tier return on equity and create strong value for our shareholders.
With that I'll hand it over to Mark.
Thank you John.
Good morning good afternoon good evening.
Thank you all for joining our call today.
I'll take you through our results and then I'll turn it over to Rob Falzon who will cover our capital and liquidity picture.
Before I discuss our results though I would like to provide some context around the comments that Rob will make about capital.
First I want to make the point that total debt in the company has been coming down as we have intended.
However lower interest rates have resulted in an increase in the amount of debt that we characterize as capital.
This is a familiar concept to those of you who have followed us closely over time.
Second our stated capital capacity of $2 billion reflects the impact on capital of repaying about $2 billion in capital debt which we haven't done.
In the past we would not have earmarked a portion of capital to repay debt.
And compared to the way in which we would have portrayed capital capacity in the past our current number would be about $4 billion.
We believe that this is a responsible way to describe capital capacity understanding that any capital statements necessarily are influenced by underlying assumptions.
Third the gain on our yen capital hedges of $2.4 billion is not reflected in our capital numbers and represents a substantial offset to other market-driven effects.
We also generate a lot of capital in our businesses 60% of operating earnings over time.
And we are very comfortable with our financial strength capital position and our capital plans.
Turning now to operating results.
I'll start with an overview of our financial results for the quarter shown on Slide 2.
On a reported basis common stock earnings per share amounted to $2.12 for the fourth quarter based on after-tax adjusted operating income of the Financial Services businesses.
This compares to EPS of $2.20 a year ago.
After adjusting for market-driven and discrete items in both the current quarter and the year-ago quarter EPS was up 5% amounting to $2.33 compared to $2.22.
Looking across our businesses here are some key drivers of this comparison.
We benefited from higher fees reflecting growth in account values in our Annuities business greater assets under management in our asset management business and the contribution of recent longevity reinsurance transactions in Retirement.
And our international insurance businesses benefited from continued business growth and more favorable policy benefits experience including mortality and currency-driven surrenders of fixed annuities.
These benefits were partly offset by a lower contribution in Asset Management from incentive transaction and strategic investing activities in comparison to strong year-ago quarter results driven largely by changing valuations and the timing of performance-based fees higher expenses including technology costs in several of our businesses and less favorable foreign currency exchange rates in international insurance.
On a GAAP basis we reported a net loss of $1.2 billion for the current quarter.
This reflects the impact of a $2.4 billion pretax loss or about $1.6 billion on an after-tax basis from foreign currency exchange rate remeasurement driven by the weakening of the Japanese yen.
This remeasurement impact was largely offset by corresponding adjustments to asset values that are included in accumulated other comprehensive income or AOCI which is outside of net income or loss.
As we mentioned in our earnings guidance call in December we've implemented a new reporting structure in Japan that will largely mitigate the impact of these currency exchange rate changes on net income or loss beginning with the first quarter 2015 reporting.
Also commencing this year we are moving up our annual actuarial assumption review to the second quarter.
Slide 3 shows our full year results.
Earnings per share for the year based on after-tax adjusted operating income amounted to $9.84 after adjusting for market-driven and discrete items.
This represents an increase of 10% from 2013 driven by solid underlying performance across our businesses with tailwinds from equity markets non-coupon investment returns and underwriting experience.
These earnings produced an ROE of 15.8% for the year after adjusting for foreign currency remeasurement which benefited our reported ROE by reducing the denominator.
Book value per share excluding AOCI and after adjusting the numbers to remove the impact of foreign currency remeasurement amounted to $64.75 at year end up $4.76 from a year ago after the payment of 4 quarterly dividends totaling $2.17 per share.
Turning to Slide 4.
Slide 4 shows a rundown of market-driven and discrete items included in our results for the quarter.
In the Annuities business the decline in market interest rates and less favorable performance of separate account funds relative to our expectations caused us to strengthen reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits and adjust DAC resulting in a net charge of $0.10 per share.
Reserve refinements in Retirement Individual Life and International Insurance resulted in a net charge of $0.10 per share.
The most significant items in the current quarter were reserve increases in International Insurance mainly driven by a calculation update relating to higher premium-rated underwriting classes and a reserve release in Retirement based on updated census data on annuitants in a legacy group annuity contract.
In addition in Individual Life we absorbed integration costs of about $0.01 per share related to the Hartford Life acquisition.
In total the items I just mentioned had a net unfavorable impact of $0.21 per share on fourth quarter results.
During the year-ago quarter market-driven and discrete items produced a net charge of $0.02 per share.
Moving to Slide 5.
On a GAAP basis our net loss of $1.2 billion in the current quarter includes amounts characterized as net realized investment losses of $2.7 billion on a pretax basis comprised of the items you see on this slide.
Foreign currency remeasurement resulted in a pretax loss of $2.4 billion for the current quarter as I mentioned earlier.
Product-related embedded derivatives and hedging activity had a negative impact of $799 million largely driven by the decline in interest rates during the quarter.
This was partly offset by $479 million of positive mark-to-market on derivatives mainly related to the management of asset and liability durations also largely driven by interest rates.
Impairments and credit losses on investments were $16 million for the quarter and general portfolio activities resulted in net pretax gains of $66 million.
Moving to our business results starting on Slide 6.
I'll discuss the comparative results excluding the market-driven and discrete items that I have mentioned.
Slide 6 shows our U.S.
Retirement Solutions and Investment Management businesses.
Slide 7 highlights Individual Annuities.
Annuities results were $390 million for the quarter up $6 million from a year ago.
Slide 8 gives a view of growth in account values fees and earnings.
Most of our operating earnings in the Annuities business come from base contract charges linked to daily account values.
Policy charges and fee income increased 5% from a year ago essentially keeping pace with the increase in average account values.
However lower spreads on general account balances and slightly higher expenses in the current quarter partly offset the benefit of growth in fees.
As a result return on assets or ROA slipped a few basis points from the year-ago quarter.
Slide 9 covers our Annuities sales.
Our gross Annuities sales for the quarter were $2.4 billion essentially unchanged from a year ago.
Our Annuities sales have been fairly consistent over the past year both on a gross and net basis.
We've taken steps to diversify the risk exposures associated with our product guarantees to maintain appropriate pricing and return expectations under changing market conditions and to more broadly meet the needs of the retirement market.
Taking a look at our annual gross sales you can see how product diversification has affected our mix.
A year ago 84% of our overall sales represented our highest daily or HDI guaranteed lifetime income withdrawal product.
The remainder of our sales consisted mainly of variable annuities where the customer did not elect the living benefit rider.
We updated our HDI product in February 2014.
A key feature of the updated product allows us to change key pricing elements as often as monthly for new business.
Our most recent pricing reset was a few weeks ago with a lower payout rate for certain key age bands.
The 70% contribution to 2014 sales from HDI reflects our product diversification.
Our Prudential Defined Income or PDI product contributed about 20% of our 2014 sales compared to less than 10% of sales a year earlier.
PDI directs a client's entire investment to a separate account fixed income portfolio that we manage.
The product provides a guaranteed lifetime income based on the client's age at the time of purchase and the premium paid with a roll-up provision.
Similarly to our current HDI product the design of PDI allows us to adjust key pricing features as often as monthly for new business.
The remainder of our 2014 sales represents annuities without living benefit guarantee.
This includes about $130 million of sales of our recently introduced Prudential Premier Investment Variable Annuity which does not offer living benefit guarantees and unbundles guaranteed minimum death benefits as an optional add-on.
We've begun to gain shelf space for this product and we believe it offers an appealing value proposition to those clients mainly focused on tax-deferred asset growth potential.
Slide 10 highlights the Retirement business.
Earnings for the Retirement business amounted to $294 million for the current quarter essentially unchanged from a year ago.
Current quarter results benefited from higher fees reflecting the longevity reinsurance transactions that we closed in the second half of the year.
The benefit was largely offset by a lower contribution from net investment results.
Current quarter results benefited from about $30 million of income above our average expectations on non-coupon investments and about $40 million of mortgage loan prepayment income which is well above our average expectations.
These 2 contributors totaled about $70 million roughly $20 million more than our non-coupon income above average expectations a year ago.
However the net positive variance was more than offset by lower fixed income returns.
Turning to Slide 11.
Total retirement gross deposits and sales were $14.2 billion for the current quarter compared to $9.9 billion a year ago.
Stand-alone institutional gross sales were about $8.5 billion in the current quarter compared to roughly $4 billion a year ago.
Current quarter sales included 2 significant funded pension risk transfer transactions totaling $4.6 billion and 2 longevity reinsurance transactions totaling $2.7 billion.
Excluding these pension risk transfer cases institutional stand-alone sales were about $1 billion for the current quarter compared to roughly $4 billion a year ago mainly reflecting lower sales of stable value wrap products.
Institutional stand-alone net flows for the quarter were $3.7 billion.
Outflows of about $2.7 billion of stable value wrap business and roughly $1 billion of ongoing attrition of our jumbo pension risk transfer and longevity reinsurance cases together with runoff of other legacy business partly offset our new sales during the quarter.
Full Service gross deposits and sales shown in the dark blue bars were $5.6 billion for the quarter essentially unchanged from a year ago.
Net outflows of about $700 million for the quarter reflected a lapse of a lower fee administrative services-only case of $950 million.
Total Retirement account values amounted to $364 billion at year end up $41 billion from a year earlier.
Slide 12 highlights the Asset Management business.
The Asset Management business reported adjusted operating income of $192 million for the current quarter compared to $209 million a year ago.
While most of the segment's results came from asset management fees the decrease from a year ago was driven by a $32 million lower contribution from incentive transaction strategic investing and commercial mortgage activities.
This contribution which amounted to $25 million for the current quarter is inherently variable since it reflects changing valuations and the timing of transactions.
Excluding results from other related revenues Asset Management earnings were up by $15 million from a year ago largely as a result of higher asset management fees driven by growth in assets under management.
The segment's assets under management amounted to $934 billion at year end including $450 billion managed for unaffiliated institutional and retail clients.
Third-party assets under management increased $35 billion from a year ago driven by market appreciation along with about $5 billion of net flows over the past year.
Net institutional outflows of $2.5 billion in the current quarter were driven by equities and included some client rebalancing of portfolios to reduce the weighting of some domestic equity product classes.
These outflows were essentially offset by net retail inflows of $2.6 billion.
Slide 13 shows the results of our U.S.
Individual Life and Group Insurance businesses.
Slide 14 highlights Individual Life.
Individual Life earnings were $135 million for the current quarter compared to $165 million a year ago.
The decrease reflected higher net charges in the current quarter for amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and related items driven by the ongoing impact of our annual actuarial review in the third quarter and by financial market performance in relation to our assumptions including the interest rate decline in the current quarter.
In addition current quarter expenses were above the level of a year ago reflecting nonlinear items such as distribution costs and consulting.
Claims experience was favorable both in the current quarter and the year-ago quarter.
Putting it all together we estimate that in comparison to our average expectations claims experience expenses and amortization had a net favorable impact of about $5 million on current quarter results.
Slide 15 shows Individual Life sales based on annualized new business premiums which amounted to $130 million for the current quarter.
This compares to sales of $166 million a year ago.
The $36 million decrease was driven by lower sales of guaranteed universal life insurance products shown in the dark blue bars.
This decline reflects actions we've taken to limit concentration in these products and maintain appropriate returns including a series of price increases which contributed to the significant drop in sales that you see in the early part of the year.
In August we implemented pricing changes on several of our guaranteed universal life and term insurance products enhancing our competitive position where we see opportunities to offer attractive value propositions with appropriate expected returns.
These pricing changes contributed to a sequential quarter increase in sales of these products which contributed a total of $92 million to current quarter sales compared to $74 million in the third quarter of this year.
Slide 16 highlights the Group Insurance business.
Group Insurance earnings amounted to $44 million in the current quarter compared to $58 million a year ago.
While we would consider our underwriting experience to be favorable in the current period we had particularly favorable group life experience last year and high recurring period expenses that drove the negative year-over-year variance.
Slide 17 presents our earnings trend for Group Insurance and benefit ratios for Group Life and Group Disability.
In Group Disability favorable current quarter experience driven by claims resolution and fewer new claims produced a 79.1% benefits ratio the lowest of the past 5 years.
While we've taken steps to improve results we continue to expect that claims experience will vary from one quarter to another.
The Group Life benefits ratio while less favorable than a year ago was at the low end of our expected range.
Moving to International Insurance on Slide 18.
This slide shows the results of our International Insurance businesses.
Slide 19 highlights our Life Planner operations.
Our Life Planner business reported earnings of $382 million for the quarter essentially unchanged from a year ago.
Mortality was more favorable than a year ago and we estimate that the contribution to current quarter results was about $25 million greater than our average expectations.
Results also benefited from continued business growth with insurance revenues including premiums policy charges and fees up 8% from a year ago on a constant-dollar basis.
The benefits to results from more favorable mortality and continued business growth were essentially offset by higher expenses driven by a range of items including nondeferrable distribution costs reflecting higher sales technology costs and sundry items such as annual true-ups of employee benefit plan liabilities.
In addition foreign currency exchange rates which reflect our hedging of yen income at JPY 82 in 2014 versus JPY 80 a year earlier had a negative impact of $3 million on earnings in comparison to a year ago.
Slide 20 highlights Gibraltar Life and other operations.
Gibraltar Life reported earnings of $385 million for the current quarter compared to $378 million a year ago.
The current quarter benefited from a greater contribution from net investment results than a year ago which was largely driven by portfolio growth.
Results from non-coupon investments were roughly in line with the year-ago quarter.
Policy benefits experience including mortality and gains on surrenders was also more favorable than a year ago.
We estimate that the contribution of this experience to current quarter results was about $20 million greater than our average expectation.
The greater contributions to earnings from net investment results and policy benefits experience were partly offset by higher expenses in the current quarter.
Like the Life Planner operations the higher expense level was also driven by a variety of items including technology costs.
In addition foreign currency exchange rates had a negative impact of $9 million in the comparison of results to a year ago.
Turning to Slide 21.
Overall International Insurance sales on a constant-dollar basis were $724 million for the current quarter up $20 million from a year ago.
Slide 21 is a product view of our sales.
As you can see in the dark blue bars Death Protection products remain our major emphasis and contributed about 60% of current quarter sales with an increase of $47 million from the year-ago quarter driven by products such as term insurance.
This was partly offset by lower sales of Retirement products which comprised less than 20% of current quarter sales.
Slide 22 breaks out Life Planner sales.
Life Planner sales were $311 million in the current quarter up $13 million or 4% from a year ago.
Sales by our Life Planners in Japan were $189 million in the current quarter compared to $196 million a year ago.
As shown in the gold bars sales of Retirement products decreased by $36 million to $56 million for the current quarter reflecting a change in commission rates.
This decrease was largely offset by an increase of Death Protection product sales shown in the dark blue bars including term insurance which also reflected a change in commission rates.
Sales outside of Japan in the brown bars were up by $20 million from a year ago mainly driven by increases in Korea and Brazil.
Slide 23 shows Gibraltar Life sales.
Sales from Gibraltar Life were $413 million in the current quarter compared to $406 million a year ago.
Sales by Life Consultants in the dark blue bars amounted to $179 million for the current quarter essentially unchanged from a year ago.
Our Life Consultant count stood at about 8 700 at year end down about 600 or 7% from a year earlier reflecting our active management of the sales force that came to us with the acquisitions of Star and Edison including minimum production requirements.
The decline in count was offset in the quarterly sales comparison by greater productivity measured by policies sold per agent per month which has returned to the level that we achieved prior to the acquisitions.
The Life Consultant count has begun to stabilize as you can see in the sequential quarter trend.
Sales through the bank channel shown in the gold bars amounted to $166 million for the current quarter down $7 million from a year ago.
This decrease reflects $22 million of residual sales in the year-ago quarter of a yen-based single-premium whole life product that we discontinued.
Sales of other products in the bank channel were up $15 million or 10% with the growth mainly driven by sales of fixed annuities.
About 2/3 of our current quarter sales in the bank channel are the Death Protection products we emphasize mainly recurring premium whole life.
Sales through independent agents shown in the light blue bars amounted to $68 million in the current quarter up $11 million from a year ago.
While Death Protection and Retirement products comprise the majority of sales through this channel the year-over-year increase was driven mainly by greater sales of fixed annuities.
Slide 24 shows the results of Corporate and Other operations.
Corporate and Other operations reported a loss of $326 million for the current quarter compared to a $397 million loss a year ago.
The reduction in the loss reflects lower expenses in the current quarter driven by a variety of nonlinear items such as employee compensation and benefit costs and charitable contributions.
Now I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks Mark.
I'm going to provide an update on some key items under the heading of Financial Strength and Flexibility starting on Slide 25.
We continue to manage our insurance companies to levels of capital that we believe are consistent with AA standards.
For Prudential Insurance we manage to a 400% RBC ratio.
While statutory results for 2014 are not yet final we estimate that RBC for Prudential Insurance as of year end 2014 will be above 400% consistent with the estimate that we provided in December.
This year-end RBC position reflects a $2 billion dividend from Prudential Insurance to the parent company in December which we applied toward the redemption of our IHC debt and the Class B Stock.
In Japan Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar Life reported strong solvency margins of 858% and 931% as of their most recent reporting date September 30 2014.
These are comfortably above our 600% to 700% targets.
And we expect that our Japanese companies will continue to report strong solvency margins relative to their targets as of their end of current fiscal years which ends in March 31 2015.
Looking at our overall capital position on Slide 26.
We calculate our on-balance sheet capital capacity by comparing the statutory capital position of Prudential Insurance to our 400% RBC ratio target and then add capital capacity held at the parent company and other subsidiaries.
A year ago our on-balance sheet capital capacity was roughly $3.5 billion of which $1.5 billion was considered readily deployable.
During the year we declared 4 common stock dividends amounting to about $1 billion in total including a dividend of $0.58 per share in the fourth quarter that represented a 9% increase and repurchased $1 billion of common stock totaling about $2 billion of returns of capital.
These capital uses were offset by capital generated within our businesses primarily from operating earnings.
In addition our restructuring of the Closed Block business had the effect of reducing our total capital capacity while increasing the amount we consider readily deployable by releasing trapped capital.
As the available on-balance sheet capital capacity and readily deployable capital balances have now converged providing 2 distinct capital figures has become less meaningful.
Therefore we will be providing a single capital capacity figure going forward.
At year end 2014 we estimate our available on balance sheet capital capacity at $2 billion with the vast majority of that amount considered readily deployable based on how we have defined that figure in the past.
As described by Mark our stated capital capacity is net of capital we anticipate using to pay down debt calibrated to arrive at our long-term targeted financial leverage ratio of 25%.
Absent such an assumption our total capital capacity would be approximately $4 billion.
Our on-balance sheet capital capacity is lower than the estimate for the year end 2014 that we provided in our 2015 guidance call in December.
The variance is mainly due to the decline in interest rates that occurred in the fourth quarter which had 2 primary impacts.
First we manage a portion of our variable annuity interest rate risk through a broader capital protection framework which includes an underhedge position.
As interest rates declined a negative impact on the underhedge triggered a change in the required capital causing a funding need that we satisfied with holding company resources.
Secondly the decline in interest rates through the quarter caused a higher statutory provision based on year-end asset adequacy testing.
We evaluate our on-balance sheet capital amounts to set points in time.
And therefore it is not explicitly reduced by further capital commitments like our Chilean acquisition or increased for expected capital generation.
However based on what we know today we expect to be able to fund our known or anticipated capital commitments with the capital we would expect to generate in our ongoing businesses.
This includes generating deployable capital equal to about 60% of our operating earnings over time as well as other positive capital items including settlements to PFI's -- settlements to PFI in 2015 on the $2.4 billion fair value of our Japan capital hedge.
Turning to the cash position at the parent company.
Cash and short-term investments net of outstanding commercial paper amounted to about $4.2 billion as of year end.
The cash in excess of our targeted $1.3 billion liquidity cushion is available to repay maturing operating debt to fund operating needs and to deploy over time for strategic and capital management purposes.
Now I'll turn it back over to John.
Thank you Rob.
Thank you Mark.
I'd like to now open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Erik Bass with Citi.
Research Division</strong> First just wanted to touch on the capital topics a little bit more.
On -- I guess if interest rates given the decline we've seen post year end should we expect further pressure from kind of the interest rate underhedge? And also could you elaborate a little bit more on the comments you made about the year-end asset adequacy test strengthening and where that was? Okay.
So let me address first the sensitivity to further future declines.
To state the obvious further declines in interest rates are not helpful but I would be careful not to extrapolate the fourth quarter sensitivities.
There are a number of moving pieces beyond just rates that affect those items.
And capital sensitivity is not by any means linear.
Our assets and liabilities have convexity and they are -- and the capital is significantly influenced by management actions that we take.
Hence it's why we actually don't provide sensitivities on capital in the same way that we did for you on AOI.
We are continually evaluating our overall sensitivity to markets generally and to interest rates' movements both up and down specifically to assess our exposure.
We modulate shocks to the current environment.
We look at the accounting capital and economic exposures to both moderate and severe shocks up and down.
And we assess the accuracy of our capital protection framework including available capital capacity on and off balance sheet and our hedges including the annuities interest rate underhedge that I discussed.
I'd also note that with respect to the annuities interest rate underhedge as well as AAT in a rising interest rate environment capital is released from each of these and restored to our capital capacity.
With respect to the other part of your question Erik in terms of -- are you seeking further elaboration on the change in year end? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Where you saw the kind of statutory -- asset adequacy test strengthening? Yes so we strengthened the reserves for AT by about $1 billion year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Was that in specific products? Or...
Well we haven't filed our statutory filings yet.
And so we're not really able to provide any further insight or detail on that.
So it did hit across a number of businesses and products not specifically generated as a result of any one particular product.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just ask one follow-up.
Under what scenarios would you begin to monetize and redeploy the $2.4 billion of the yen hedge gains? And as these settle is there any reason they wouldn't be available capital capacity? No.
So if you look at the $2.4 billion that we have in fair value as of year end the ordinary core settlements on that are about 30% of it during the course of 2015.
When we articulate our capital capacity we do not include in that capacity that fair value amount.
What we do include are the settlements as they occur and work their way in.
So there is nothing -- absent further changes in the level of the FX rate which would then affect that fair value amount there's nothing that would impede the natural order of settlements in the way that I quantified them coming into our capital capacity during the course of 2015.
And then obviously to the extent that we accelerated any of the settlements that would provide additional capital capacity out of that $2.4 billion.
Our next question will come from the line of Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I apologize maybe I'm sleep deprived but I'm confused in terms of this whole capital capacity thing.
Because I thought in Mark's prepared comments he had said that the delta between what you told us in December and what you're telling us now was what I would characterize as a definitional item which is you're kind of earmarking some money for debt repayment which you hadn't done back then.
But then in Rob's comments it seems like there was actually an increase in capital requirements related -- that caused the change.
So again I apologize but I just was wondering if you can just walk us through very simply like you told us $3.5 billion in December and now you're telling us $2 billion.
Like can you just walk us through how we got from one to the other? Yes.
So let me sort of keep it very high level and try to walk you through that Suneet.
So if you take the range we gave you before because remember we've migrated to a single definition so we've provided a range of $3.5 billion.
And then of that $3 billion of readily deployable that number the 2 of those converged into what we've articulated as the $2 billion.
So the delta between where we were and where we are today as Mark described is that we're taking some of our capacity in order to reduce the leverage.
What happened during the course of the fourth quarter is that our capital leverage ratio went up by a greater amount than we would have otherwise anticipated as a result primarily of the 2 things that I highlighted.
So the interest rate underhedge and the AAT provision being greater than what we had originally expected when we set our guidance caused that -- the leverage ratio to elevate.
And so if we were to reduce the leverage back down to 25% and we think that's a prudent thing to do in light of recent levels of interest rates and the increased volatility that we have in interest rates that requires taking that capital capacity that otherwise would've been $4 billion down to $2 billion.
So there's a component of it that's a result of an elevated level of capital leverage caused primarily by those 2 events.
And then secondly as you characterized it a change in methodology to deduct from our capital capacity any leverage that we have in excess of that targeted 25%.
Is that helpful? Research Division</strong> So when Mark -- yes I think we're getting there but -- so when Mark said $4 billion is sort of the pro forma number had you not changed the definition does that reflect the underhedged and the AAT? Yes so -- I'm sorry Mark? Yes think about the $4 billion as if we didn't change leverage.
So the leverage at end of the year absent any changes would have been 29.6% or something in that order of magnitude that we'll wind up printing.
And that would then reflect both the underhedge and AAT.
And bringing that number down to 25% is what reduces us from having a notional capital capacity of $4 billion or a real capital capacity of $4 billion down to a notional amount net of the earmark for debt reduction of $2 billion.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'll noodle that.
My second question was just on these pension risk transfer deals that you've done.
I know when you price these things I'm assuming you're fully matched on the assets and the liabilities.
And so the direction of interest rates post closing the deal really shouldn't change the economic terms of the deal.
I just want to confirm that that's the case because obviously you've done a lot of these deals and we've continued to see interest rates decline.
So if I'm right is it fair to assume that the decline in interest rates that we've seen is not going to impact the profitability of the business that you've written? Suneet this is Steve.
You are absolutely correct.
The pension risk transfer deals remember that in these transactions we're dealing in all cases with retirees people have already made their elections.
So the cash flows are already firmly established.
Therefore at closing we're able to match assets and liabilities in a very robust fashion.
I'd go one step further going back in the timeline a little bit to the way you asked your questions and that is to emphasize that between pricing and signing and closing we have contractual provisions that protect us from changes in market conditions including changes in interest rates between pricing and closing.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But there's not even a dynamic of you have surplus backing this business and that surplus is presumably invested in something that's earning a yield.
But there's not even a dynamic of spread compression on the surplus that's backing these transactions? No there really isn't.
As I say we're able to match assets and liabilities very robustly given the nature of the liability.
Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Krueger with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I had another follow-up on the capital.
I guess just -- I guess maybe just to confirm.
So is the way to think about it that you had 2 capital impacts from Variable Annuity relating to interest rates and cash flow testing and that you funded those amounts with additional capital debt? Is that the right way to think about it? Yes.
But just to be clear Ryan the AAT amounts affect the entire enterprise.
That's not specific to Annuities by any means.
So yes you had from Annuities the interest rate underhedge and then you had the enterprise-wide AAT testing some component of which we'd obviously anticipated.
It's just with the decline in the fourth quarter it was greater than what we anticipated.
Those -- the "funding" of those 2 came from operating debt that we had sitting on our balance sheet.
We used the proceeds associated with that operating debt to fund that and that we reclassified operating debt to capital debt.
Important to note there and I think Mark highlighted upfront our total leverage has gone down.
We've actually reduced the amount of debt that we have outstanding.
This was an issue of how we label that debt.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
You already had the debt.
You're now using it for a different purpose and you reclassified it.
Correct.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay second question.
I know you guys don't tend to like to comment on your EPS guidance after you give it.
But you haven't -- we haven't had a quarter in 2015 yet and your earnings I think were generally lower than most of us expected.
So I was just hoping if you could confirm that the $9.60 to $10.10 EPS guidance you gave in December is still a valid range.
So Ryan a confirmation would be an update.
So I can't actually do that.
But let me offer a couple of thoughts that perhaps can help.
One if you -- the nature of your question really is expressing concern about what's the impact of the -- of this capital capacity reduction that we've articulated in the fourth quarter and then looking at the high level of expenses that we have in the fourth quarter.
Those are the 2 things I guess if you're thinking about how they might impact our -- the guidance that we otherwise gave and with respect to both those what I would note is on the capital side our guidance reflected a range of deployment including leverage reduction.
So the fact that we're using a portion of our capital to reduce debt is not something that would be any different than we would've factored into a range when we put that together.
With regard to expenses recall the fourth quarter has seasonality both in -- actually both in revenues and expenses.
It's international but it's across the entire enterprise in part due to compensation and benefit true-ups in the fourth quarter.
So while I'm not updating guidance I would say there was nothing structural that changed versus our expectations for the fourth quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you just give us some quantification of the type of seasonality you saw in the fourth quarter to what -- relative to what you'd expect in other quarters? No.
I'm actually -- I'm not prepared to give you that off the top of my head Ryan.
I'd have to give that thought.
I think if you looked back at our fourth quarter over the last several years you would see a pronounced seasonality there on an enterprise basis more accentuated in our international business obviously.
Ryan this is Charlie.
Let me just sort of give you a quick overview of the sort of expenses in the fourth quarter.
Because the fourth quarter does tend to have higher expenses as Rob said in our International businesses and that's a trend we've seen over the years.
So I think what we would say is for total expenses there's sort of 27% 28% of the -- of annual expenses occur in the fourth quarter and we see this both in Life Planner and the Gibraltar businesses for really 3 factors.
First fourth quarter always includes some nonlinear expenses.
And we had some of those as we did last year and probably always will in the fourth quarter and those related as Rob said to pension-related costs and whatnot.
We then have some external factors that have been there such as consumption tax and other things and that's sort of a constant.
And then there are also some internal factors.
And those internal factors can be as mundane as administrative costs such as annual mailings to customers.
And those occur in the fourth quarter in Japan.
And so you're going to get some seasonality.
There are some systems initiatives and the costs are incurred later in the year that usually is the case and some end-of-life systems.
So these sorts of costs will be with us going forward and have been anticipated.
So in sum on the international side expenses were structurally not different than we would've otherwise expected for the fourth quarter but are seasonally a bit higher.
Our next question comes from the line of Thomas Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to come back to the capital situation as well.
Mark I just wanted to be clear on what you said about the yen hedge.
Did you say that was $2.4 billion? Yes $2.4 billion pretax.
Research Division</strong> And is that -- how is that factored into your overall view of capital adequacy? Is that included somehow in the $2 billion figure? It's not reflected in the capital ratios or dollar numbers that we've discussed.
And as Rob said in answer to an earlier question this will flow into available capital as the cash is realized.
And about 30% of it comes in this year.
And we would have options to accelerate if we chose to.
So this is I guess sort of shadow strength that's not reflected in the headline numbers but represents as I said a substantial offset to other market-related sensitivities.
And maybe to follow up on that Tom and following up on a question that was asked earlier when we think about post year end things that have happened the -- and the commitments that we have -- capital commitments we have for the upcoming year both in the form of the expected closing of the Chilean AFORE [ph] business in the middle of the year as well as the further decline in interest rates post year end we have confidence around the capital capacity that we stated as of year end because we look at those outflows of capital but we're also looking at the inflows we have of capital during the course of 2015.
They come from our free cash flow but they also come from this monetization of the equity -- the yen equity hedge.
Yes Tom we've each expressed confidence in our financial strength and our capital position and our ability to implement our capital plans.
And the value of that yen hedge is a source of comfort in that context.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then -- and just a related question I guess.
The -- if we -- I just want to really get my arms around how to think about the below-the-line VA losses we've seen.
And I get the AAT year-end true-ups.
But more importantly thinking about your 2Q review and now you're changing the actuarial review from 3Q to 2Q if we remain in a sustained low rate environment is it fair to say that there's risk to that $2 billion as we think about rates where they are today if there is another sizable VA below-the-line charge? Wouldn't it consume more of that $2 billion figure today? Okay so let me sort of take that in pieces.
First with respect to sustained low interest rates the impact in capital comes primarily as a result of a decline in interest rates.
And so the position that we're articulating as to where we are today reflects the level that we're at today.
Should rates prevail at this level that does not give rise to a further need to absorb the capital capacity we have in the way that we described it occurring in the fourth quarter.
Should rates decline further then we would have some of those consequences.
With respect to the VA business and the actuarial assumption updates I guess what I would describe on that Tom is that we have updates to our assumptions particularly with respect to the Annuities business.
We believe we've taken appropriate steps relevant to the experience that we've reserved in Annuities and across our other businesses.
And so based on what we know today we feel comfortable with the reserves that we've put up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then sorry if I could squeeze one last one in does it -- the way I'm thinking about this whole thing and correct me if I'm wrong has to do -- because prior to now I think most of the charges that have been recognized in VA have been funded by -- you had enough resources in PRU global funding within that enterprise or within that entity.
And is it -- have we gotten to the point now where you now need to fund all potential VA charges going forward given what's gone on within that entity? Or if you can help me better understand that.
Yes Tom.
So we've always articulated how much needed to be topped up in the VA entity.
And just to be clear that's not PRU global funding.
That's a separate entity through which we do -- we enter into our swaps and derivative transactions to the benefit of the entire enterprise.
It would be PrucoRe which is our captive.
And then within that entity yes we had surplus capacity that in prior quarters absorbed some of the top-up that we need to undertake as a result of some of the below-the-line charges that you've described.
In this quarter we had to take proceeds from operating debt and then advance it to PrucoRe in order to fund the incremental losses.
And that would be the case on a go-forward basis.
Oh yes and actually just -- let me add another point on that Tom which I think is -- helps put some of this in perspective because I think it's important for people to understand.
Our total reserves now the hedge target at PrucoRe is approximately $8 billion today.
That is the equivalent of the statutory reserves that we hold for that entity.
The -- if we were to do this the calculation of statutory reserves for the living benefit rider at the ceding companies that number would be less than half the $8 billion.
So we have a very conservative level of reserves established for our living benefit rider that results from the way in which we account and hedge for that.
Our next question will come from the line of Colin Devine with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Let's -- if we can come back to this capital issue one more time.
First well I'm trying to reconcile the debt as it's spread out -- split out on Page 10 with what's shown on the balance sheet specifically the short-term debt figure that's given of what $3.8 billion.
And yet on the balance sheet it's $1.746 billion.
It's always reconciled before.
So maybe just to understand what's gone on here.
And then as you're doing that I'm also trying to reconcile how on December 11 when you put out the capital numbers I get -- how that -- are the numbers you're giving us today for excess capital cushion based on where rates are today? Or are they based on where they were at year end? Because that's I think what some of us are having trouble understanding what you guys are saying because some of your comments have been if rates just stay where they are then it's $2 billion.
Or was it $2 billion based on where rates were at the end of last year? And if it was that then how is this cushion not sort of gone right now? Sure.
So Colin let me answer the second part first then I'll come back to the borrowing numbers and hopefully reconcile them for you.
So if you -- the statement we made is at -- rates as of year end gave rise to the earmarking of $2 billion of our capital capacity to bring that from the $4 billion to the $2 billion.
The comment that we made with respect to what's happened since year end was that we do have -- we've -- as of today we have identified additional capital commitments in the form of what we would have to do to mark the additional hit associated primarily with the underhedge through this -- as a result of where rates are further declined this year as well as the commitment we have should we be successful at closing on our Chilean acquisition.
So when we think about those commitments that we have during the course of 2015 and there are others obviously we line that up against the capacity we have to meet those commitments in 2015 as well and we're comfortable that the combination of our free cash flow and other sources of capital including as we've mentioned the $2.4 billion of yen equity hedge gains or fair value that will be monetized portions of which will be monetized during the course of 2015 that those sources of capital can meet what might additionally be required as a result of the subsequent decline in interest rates and the other capital commitments that we have.
Is that helpful? Research Division</strong> It is and it's not.
So let's say you just decided after this call and looking at where the stock's going today let's monetize all the yen hedges okay? That's fine but then we should all be -- is it fair to say we should all be taking our estimates down because those Japanese earnings are going to come across then at current exchange rates not the 91? Is that fair? No it's not.
So when we look -- when we're describing the equity hedge that is separate and distinct from the income hedge Colin.
So the income hedges remain in place.
This is in addition to those income hedges.
Income hedges are in place as we've described before in a rolling 3-year basis.
Yes Colin the translation hedge that's applied as we earn yen and then report in dollars in AOI is a different hedge.
And as Rob said that stays in place.
The yen capital hedge that we're referring to is a structural short yen position on the balance sheet that includes a monetization mechanism that lets us realize cash at the holding company.
So they're actually 2 discrete things and there would not be a translation hedge impact related to things that we do and as the capital hedge matures for example.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then maybe to cut to the chase which is I think on a lot of people's minds.
Given where rates sit today right here right now is it still your expectation that PRU will do $1 billion in buybacks this year? So Colin I think as you well know I can't answer the question with respect to what we would do on a prospective basis with regard to stock buybacks.
If that's a question about our capacity and our ability to do that I think we've addressed that capacity issue and what we said is that we feel very comfortable with the quantification of our notional capital capacity being that $2 billion again net of what we would need to reduce our leverage ratio down to 25%.
That capital capacity is available in the way that we've always articulated it.
Our current authorization for buybacks runs through June.
We've got about $0.5 billion left on that authorization through that period of time.
And as I said our philosophy really hasn't changed.
We're managing to our leverage -- our targeted leverage ratios.
We've articulated that.
We've shown you a number for capital capacity that is net of that amount.
We financed the growth including the extra organic growth particularly associated with PRT.
We have some acquisition funding and that's the Chilean business and we've described that and our comfort with our ability to finance that.
And importantly we have shareholder distributions in the form of both dividends and stock buybacks.
And our philosophy with regard to any and all of that has not changed.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Now if we can go back to what happened in the stats up with the debt and just put that to bed.
Sure.
So the -- I'm not sure I understand what your question is.
I'm looking at the -- I presume you're talking about...
Research Division</strong> I'm looking at Page 10.
I'm looking at Page 10 QFS under short-term debt and that does not reconcile to your balance sheet on Page 6 and it always has in the past.
So -- and it does at the end of year end '13.
So is there a typo there? Or...
Well I can't speak to whether there's a typo or not because I don't have the 10-K sitting in front of me.
What I will tell you is...
Research Division</strong> It's not the 10-K Rob.
It's in your stats out.
And there's -- it's a question of there's I don't know $2 billion of debt which seems to have moved somewhere.
The total debt at -- described as of December 31 2014 is $23.7 billion.
Research Division</strong> Where do I find that on Page 6 just to make it easy? Because I don't get that what's on Page 6.
Well Colin maybe what I would suggest is if you have specific questions with respect to the QFS and you want to tick and tie this that's probably a good use of time after the call as opposed to before the call.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The balance sheet shows 21.
That's the question Rob.
I'm sorry.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'll let you guys come back.
But the balance sheet shows 21.
That's the issue and that became the question is this $2 billion worth of capital that went from December 11 to now has that just been reclassified somewhere? That's what I was getting at because the balance sheet does not show the $23 billion.
Yes if you take the totals of our long-term debt and our short-term debt that should aggregate to the total of the $23 billion if you include -- if you exclude from that the commercial paper which is outside of that number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'll let you go look at the balance sheet because that's not what it totals to.
And that will be from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I guess if I could just put the final nail in this capital coffin if you will.
The question I have is when you articulated the $3.5 billion which I guess would have assumed a 25% debt to cap and maybe it didn't but this incremental requirement for lower rates by year end at least as of the date of your outlook call through year end rates really barely moved.
I'm assuming you did that math some time before your outlook was provided.
I'm just trying to get a gauge as to how much rates actually did move to eat -- to take the $3.5 billion which I guess would've risen actually and been $4 billion down to $2 billion? Sure John.
So -- excuse me Nigel.
Research Division</strong> No it is John.
Oh it's John I'm sorry.
Got mixed up on my ordering.
So John the guidance was established on the basis of our forecast.
Our forecast looks at an average of forward yield curves at the point at which we put it together.
That forecast implied a year-end rate of around 2.6% and that then drove the view of what capital may or may not be available as of -- or be required as of year end.
At the point at which we did our earnings call obviously rates were around 2 2-ish or somewhere in that order of magnitude.
The volatility in interest rates is extreme I think as you well know.
We have seen virtually every week movements in interest rates that have been up to 20 and 30 basis points.
And so the delta between where we were forecasting to go year end and where we were as of the day we provided guidance was well within a range of kind of typical standard deviations over that period of time.
And frankly when we look at setting together our forecast we don't alter it to reflect changes in the day-to-day movements of rates or equities.
When we gave guidance equities were above the number that we had anticipated coming into year end and interest rates were below.
We didn't adjust for either with the knowledge that neither of those numbers would be where they were on the day that we provided guidance just as they were not on the day where we put together the forecast.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
So -- but I mean at the end of the day here and I recognize I fully recognize the commentary you made earlier about capital action -- I mean sorry management actions and other things that are at play here.
It's not just a rate discussion.
But essentially what you're saying is a roughly 40-basis-point drop in rates cost you $2 billion.
Again I wouldn't extrapolate that.
There are a number of moving parts to that.
Not to mention that when we gave guidance we did anticipate that a certain amount of our capital would be used as you said to get our leverage down to 25% when we gave that guidance.
And so the delta between the guidance and our number is the $3 billion to $3.5 billion down to $2 billion not the $4 billion down to $2 billion.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay that's helpful too.
And then just -- I mean just a quick housekeeping item.
Tax rate just since I've got you guys tax rate was I guess a little bit under 26% for the full year.
I think your guide has been around 27% give or take.
Is there anything sort of that we should be just structurally looking at that tax rate being somewhat lower on an ongoing basis than the 27%? So the -- yes the provision for taxes and guidance was actually a bit under 27%.
I know we rounded it to 27% when we gave the guidance.
And when you look at the impact to the tax rate this year one of the large drivers to that was a reduction in our foreign taxes largely driven by the fact that Japan lowered its tax rate down to 32%.
So we will get some ongoing benefit from that going forward as well.
And ladies and gentlemen today's conference call will be available for replay after 1:30 p.m.
today until midnight February 12.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system by dialing (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 349034.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the First Quarter 2015 Earnings Teleconference.
At this time all lines are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session instructions will be given to you at that time.
And as a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mark Finkelstein.
Please go ahead.
Head-Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Cynthia.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Representing Prudential on today's call are John Strangfeld CEO; Mark Grier Vice Chairman; Charlie Lowrey Head of International Businesses; Steve Pelletier Head of Domestic Businesses; Rob Falzon Chief Financial Officer; and Rob Axel Controller and Principal Accounting Officer.
We will start with prepared comments by John Mark and Rob and then we will answer your questions.
Today's presentation may include forward-looking statements.
It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today.
In addition this presentation may include references to non-GAAP measures.
For a reconciliation of such measures to the comparable GAAP measures and a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements please see the section titled Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measure of our earnings press release which can be found on our website at www.investor.prudential.com.
John I'll hand it over to you.
Thank you Mark.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
I'm pleased to say we reported strong first quarter results and are off to a solid start for the year.
Overall for the first quarter of 2015 we produced an 8% increase in adjusted operating income per share excluding market driven and discrete items.
This in turn meant that we achieved an annualized return on equity in excess of 16% for the period.
The core fundamentals across our businesses and diversification in our earnings are key strengths and have helped us mitigate certain market headwinds such as translating our Japanese yen based earnings at a less favorable currency rate and the impact of lower new money yields.
We also benefited from stronger than expected investment returns on non-coupon investments and other positive factors in the first quarter.
Mark and Rob will walk through the specifics of our key drivers results and capital position but I would highlight a few particularly noteworthy items.
First balancing the mix of our life insurance and longevity businesses benefited us in the quarter.
As we have seen in prior first quarters we experienced less favorable than average mortality in our Individual Life and Group Life businesses.
However this was largely offset by positive case experience in our Retirement business mainly due to experience in our newer PRT business.
Our Asset Management business generated very strong third-party net flows in both the institutional and retail businesses.
The strength of our platform and continuing strong investment performance has enabled us to capitalize on the recent money in motion dynamics that have impacted the money management industry.
In the Annuities business we are seeing solid results from our product diversification strategy with 36% of our new business this quarter representing sales of products entirely invested in fixed income strategies or that did not include living benefit guarantees.
We also experienced a very good disability benefit ratio in our Group Insurance business reflecting the continuing effects of our re-pricing actions and improvements to claims handling procedures.
And while we can expect experience to vary from one quarter to another we are pleased with the progress that the Group Insurance business has made.
The fundamentals of our Life Planner business remain solid.
The business produced 5% constant currency earnings and sales growth over the prior year driven in part by a 4% increase in our Life Planner count.
In Japan we had the highest Life Planner recruitment total in a decade as we are benefiting from the steps we took in the first half of 2014 to promote more Life Planner growth.
And finally Gibraltar produced 8% constant currency sales growth over the first quarter of 2014 driven by increases across each distribution channel.
Furthermore we're also pleased to see the stabilization we are seeing in our Life Consultant count.
Overall we continue to benefit from a strong balance sheet that has supported our steady dividend and share repurchase program and provides us with the capital flexibility to opportunistically pursue organic and inorganic growth opportunities as they emerge.
Looking ahead we continue to invest in our businesses and infrastructure to support and enhance our effectiveness and the value we deliver to our stakeholders.
So with that I'll hand it over to Mark.
Thank you John.
Good morning good afternoon or good evening.
Thanks for joining us on the earnings call today.
I'll take you through our results and then I'll turn it over to Rob Falzon who will cover our capital and liquidity picture.
I'll start with an overview of our financial results for the quarter shown on slide 2.
On a reported basis common stock earnings per share amounted to $2.79 for the first quarter based on after tax-adjusted operating income.
Excuse me.
This compares to EPS of $2.40 a year ago.
After adjusting for market-driven and discrete items in both the current quarter and the year-ago quarter EPS was up by 8% amounting to $2.65 compared to $2.46 a year ago.
Looking across our businesses here are some highlights of this comparison and I'll mention four favorable items.
First higher fees reflecting growth in account values in our annuities business and greater assets under management in our Asset Management business.
Second a greater contribution from Pension Risk Transfer business with case experience more favorable than our average expectations.
Third improved Group Insurance underwriting margins driven by more favorable disability results.
And fourth in International Insurance continued growth on a constant currency basis in our Life Planner operations.
These benefits were partly offset by three things: one lower contribution from net investment results with returns on non-coupon investments above our average expectations but below the exceptionally strong level of the year-ago quarter.
Two higher net expenses in several businesses.
And three less favorable currency exchange rates in International Insurance.
I would also note the decreased corporate income tax rates in Japan including a recently enacted reduction drove a lower effective tax rate in the current quarter.
On a GAAP basis including amounts categorized as realized investment gains we reported net income of just over $2 billion for the current quarter about $700 million above our after tax adjusted operating income reflecting mark-to-market on derivatives hedging and general portfolio activities.
Book value per share excluding accumulated other comprehensive income or AOCI and after adjusting the numbers to remove the impact of foreign currency exchange rate re-measurement amounted to $69.01 at the end of the first quarter up $4.26 from year end.
The increase for the quarter was mainly driven by our net income per share of $4.37 less our quarterly dividend of $0.58.
The impact of equity coming over to the class A common stock from the restructuring of our former Closed Block business that we completed at the beginning of January amounting to $1.35 per share was partly offset by refinements in the cumulative impact of foreign currency exchange rate re-measurement as we move to the new reporting structure in Japan.
The remaining re-measurement balance of $4.4 billion at March 31 will decrease over time as the non-yen assets in Japan which were in an unrealized gain position at year end are sold or mature.
Annualized ROE for the quarter based on after tax adjusted operating income excluding market driven and discrete items and based on book value excluding AOCI and the impact of foreign currency re-measurement was 16.1%.
This ROE reflects strong underlying business performance bolstered by a net benefit that we would estimate at about 130 basis points from net favorable variances in comparison to our average quarterly expectations in a number of areas.
These include returns on non-coupon investments Pension Risk Transfer case experience and Individual Life mortality the seasonal revenue pattern in our International Insurance Life Planner business and items that affected corporate and other results for the quarter.
I'll discuss these items in more detail in reviewing our business results.
Turning to slide 3 we have only two market driven and discrete items included in our results for the quarter with a net benefit to reported results of $0.14 per share.
In the Annuities business we adjusted DAC and released reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits to reflect market performance including outperformance of our separate account funds resulting in a benefit of $0.15 per share.
And in Individual Life we absorbed integration costs of about $0.01 per share related to The Hartford Life acquisition.
During the year-ago quarter market driven and discrete items produced a net charge of $0.06 per share.
Moving to slide 4 on a GAAP basis our net income of $2 billion in the current quarter includes amounts characterized as net realized investment gains of $1.1 billion on a pre-tax basis comprised of the items you see on this slide.
Mark-to-market gains on derivatives mainly related to management of asset and liability durations and largely driven by changes in the level of interest rates had a positive impact of $565 million for the quarter.
Product-related embedded derivatives and hedging activity had a positive impact of $265 million as the application of credit spreads to our gross GAAP liability for Variable Annuity living benefits more than offset the impact of the decline in interest rates during the quarter.
General portfolio activities resulted in net pre-tax gains of $227 million.
Foreign currency re-measurement resulted in a pre-tax gain of $25 million for the quarter reflecting our mitigation of the income statement impact from this item as a result of the new reporting structure we implemented in Japan.
And finally impairments and credit losses on investments were $31 million for the quarter.
Moving to our business results and starting on slide 5 I'll discuss the comparative results excluding the market driven and discrete items I mentioned earlier.
Slide 5 highlights Individual Annuities.
Annuities results were $423 million for the quarter up $14 million from a year ago.
Slide 6 presents a view of our trend in earnings and return on assets.
Most of our operating earnings in the Annuities business come from base contract charges linked to daily account values.
The earnings increase of about 3% is essentially in line with the growth of average account values from a year ago.
Return on assets or ROA in the Annuity business for the quarter was 107 basis points equal to the year ago level and higher than the last few quarters.
The expense level in the first quarter has historically been below the average rate for the year contributing to the higher ROA.
Slide 7 covers our Annuities sales.
Our gross annuity sales for the quarter were $2.2 billion essentially unchanged from a year ago but with a change in mix reflecting steps we've taken to diversify the risk exposures associated with our product guarantees to support return prospects through changing market conditions and to more broadly meet the needs of the retirement market.
A modest decline in sales of our highest daily income or HDI guaranteed lifetime income withdrawal product was largely offset by greater contributions from two other products: our Prudential Defined Income or PDI product which directs a client's entire investment to a separate account fixed income portfolio that we manage and we also had increased sales of variable annuities without living benefit guarantees.
Slide 8 highlights the Retirement business.
Earnings for the Retirement business amounted to $284 million for the current quarter compared to $364 million a year ago.
The decrease was largely driven by a $95 million lower contribution from net investment results.
While current quarter returns from non-coupon investments were about $15 million above our average expectations results for the year-ago quarter benefited from exceptionally high returns in these asset classes largely driven by performance from private equity funds with a contribution that was about $80 million above average expectations.
Fixed income returns were also lower in the current quarter.
The lower contribution from net investment results along with higher expenses in the current quarter were partly offset by a greater contribution from case experience on Pension Risk Transfer business which was about $45 million above our average quarterly expectations.
We would estimate that about a third of this represents the impact of historical mortality patterns which typically favor the first quarter for this business.
Turning to slide 9 total Retirement gross deposits and sales were $7.3 billion for the current quarter compared to $10.3 billion a year ago.
Full service gross deposits and sales shown in the dark blue bars were $6.3 billion for the quarter.
This compares to $8.6 billion a year ago which included a major case win of $2.6 billion.
Standalone institutional gross sales were about $1 billion in the current quarter down from $1.7 billion a year ago.
Sales of stable value wrap products which amounted to $1.4 billion a year ago were insignificant in the current quarter.
The decrease in sales of these products was partly offset by a Pension Risk Transfer case of about $660 million that funded in the current quarter.
As we have commented in the past sales of both full service and institutional Retirement products can fluctuate meaningfully on a quarterly basis.
Institutional standalone net outflows for the quarter were $2.5 billion.
Net outflows of about $1.3 billion of stable value wrap business and roughly $1 billion of ongoing attrition of our jumbo Pension Risk Transfer cases together with runoff of legacy business more than offset our new sales during the quarter.
Total Retirement account values amounted to $365 billion at the end of the quarter up $37 billion or 11% from a year earlier reflecting net flows of about $25 billion largely driven by Pension Risk Transfer business and favorable market performance.
Slide 10 highlights the Asset Management business.
The Asset Management business reported adjusted operating income of $205 million for the current quarter compared to $193 million a year ago.
While most of the segment's results come from Asset Management fees the increase from a year ago was driven by a $15 million greater contribution from incentive transaction strategic investing and commercial mortgage activities.
This contribution which amounted to $47 million for the current quarter is inherently variable since it reflects changing valuations and the timing of transactions.
Current quarter revenues for the Asset Management business were up 10% from a year ago largely reflecting higher Asset Management fees driven by a 10% increase in unaffiliated third-party institutional and retail assets under management which totaled $469 billion at the end of the quarter.
Net inflows for the current quarter were very strong at $7.7 billion about equally divided between institutional and retail business.
The benefit of Asset Management revenue growth was largely offset by higher expenses including roughly $15 million divided about equally between investments that we've made in the business to build teams and infrastructure to expand our product and distribution capabilities and higher upfront commissions associated with the $4 billion of retail asset inflows in the quarter.
Slide 11 highlights our U.S.
Individual Life business.
Individual Life earnings were $125 million for the current quarter compared to $133 million a year ago.
The decrease in earnings was driven by less favorable claims experience in the current quarter.
Contribution to current quarter results for mortality experience including related amortization and reserve updates was about $35 million less favorable than our average expectations.
This compares to a mortality contribution about $25 million less favorable than our average expectations a year ago on the same basis.
Historically the first quarter has tended to reflect a lower contribution from mortality experience than in average for the year.
Individual Life mortality has been more favorable than our average expectations for the preceding three quarters and for the full years 2014 and 2013.
Lower expenses in the current quarter including net recoveries of about $10 million from servicing legacy participating business which we would consider to be unusually favorable largely offset a lower contribution from investment results.
Slide 12 shows Individual Life sales.
Based on annualized new business premiums which amounted to $124 million for the current quarter essentially unchanged from a year ago.
Variable life sales shown in the green bars increased by $9 million reflecting feature enhancements we introduced in May and September of last year to broaden the appeal of our products.
Term Insurance sales in the gray bars are up $7 million from a year ago benefiting from pricing changes we made last August to enhance our competitive position where we see opportunities to offer attractive value propositions with appropriate expected returns.
The increased sales of variable life and term were largely offset by lower universal life sales which benefited a year ago from residual sales of legacy Hartford products.
Slide 13 highlights the Group Insurance business.
Group Insurance earnings amounted to $30 million in the current quarter compared to $6 million a year ago.
The increase reflected a substantial improvement in Group Disability claims experience and lower expenses in the current quarter partially offset by less favorable Group Life claims experience.
Slide 14 presents our earnings trend for Group Insurance and benefit ratios for Group Life and Group Disability.
In Group Disability favorable current quarter experience driven by fewer new claims at a greater benefit from claims resolutions produced a 72.2% benefits ratio the lowest in recent years.
This compares to a ratio of over 100% a year ago reflecting an adverse fluctuation in long-term disability claims.
While we've taken steps to improve results including pricing adjustments and enhancement to our claims management processes we continue to expect that claims experience will vary from one quarter to another.
The Group Life benefits ratio was slightly above our expected range and up from a year ago reflecting a higher average new claim size which more than offset a lower claim count.
Moving now to International Insurance slide 15 highlights our Life Planner operations.
Our Life Planner business reported earnings of $439 million for the quarter essentially unchanged from a year ago.
Results benefited from continued business growth with insurance revenues including premiums policy charges and fees up 8% from a year ago on a constant dollar basis.
The benefit to results from continued business growth was partly offset by higher expenses driven by a range of items including technology costs and non-deferrable distribution costs.
Mortality experience was largely unchanged from the year-ago quarter with a contribution to current quarter results about $15 million greater than our average expectations.
Foreign currency exchange rates which reflect our hedging of yen income at ¥91 in 2015 versus ¥82 a year ago had a negative impact of $17 million on earnings in comparison to a year ago.
Slide 16 shows the quarterly pattern of earnings for our Life Planner operations over the last six quarters.
Looking at the trend you can see the seasonality pattern that favors the first quarter which results from a concentration of annual mode premium revenues.
We would estimate that this benefited current quarter earnings by about $30 million in relation to a quarterly average.
Slide 17 highlights Gibraltar Life and other operations.
Gibraltar Life reported earnings of $395 million for the current quarter compared to $418 million a year ago.
The current quarter benefited from a greater contribution from net investment results than a year ago including about $40 million of returns that we would consider to be above our average expectations on non-coupon investments.
The greater contribution to earnings from net investments results was largely offset by higher net expenses in the current quarter including technology costs and a benefit in the year-ago quarter from fixed asset sales.
Mortality experience was also about $15 million below our average expectations in the current quarter.
In addition foreign currency exchange rates had a negative impact of $19 million in the comparison of results from a year ago.
Turning to slide 18 overall International Insurance sales on a constant dollar basis were $780 million for the current quarter up $47 million or 6% from a year ago.
Slide 18 is a product view of our sales.
The sales increase was driven by death protection products shown in the dark blue bars partly offset by lower sales of Retirement products in the light blue bars.
Death protection products including term insurance and whole life represented about 60% of current quarter sales largely consistent with the preceding quarter but up from just over 50% a year ago.
The change in mix reflected higher death protection sales across our distribution channels both in Japan and other countries and a commission rate change that elevated Retirement sales in Japan in the year-ago quarter.
Slide 19 breaks out Life Planner sales.
Life Planner sales were $366 million in the current quarter up $17 million or 5% from a year ago.
Sales by our Life Planners in Japan were $245 million in the current quarter compared to $249 million a year ago.
As shown in the light blue bars sales of Retirement products decreased by $38 million to $73 million for the current quarter reflecting elevated sales in the year-ago quarter driven by the change in commission rates that I mentioned.
This decrease was largely offset by an increase of death protection product sales including term insurance shown in the dark blue bars.
Sales outside of Japan in the green bars were up $21 million from a year ago mainly driven by increases in Brazil and Korea.
Slide 20 shows Gibraltar Life sales.
Sales from Gibraltar Life were $414 million in the current quarter up $30 million or 8% from a year ago with increases in each of the three distribution channels.
Life Consultant sales shown in the dark blue bars increased by $4 million or 2% from a year ago as higher productivity measured by policies sold per agent per month more than offset a decrease of about 160 or 2% in Life Consultant count.
The count has largely stabilized over the past few quarters and the decline reflects our continuing active management of the sales force including minimum production requirements together with selectivity and recruiting.
Sales through the bank channel shown in the light blue bars amounted to $171 million for the current quarter up $21 million or 14% from a year ago.
The increase was driven mainly by greater sales of recurring premium whole life insurance.
These products are particularly attractive to clients focused on the increased inheritance tax in Japan since their structure enables use of annual gift tax exemptions to efficiently transfer estate wealth.
Sales through independent agents shown in the gray bars amounted to $68 million in the current quarter.
The $5 million increase from a year ago was driven by greater sales of fixed annuity and death protection products.
Slide 21 shows the results of corporate and other operations.
Corporate and other operations reported a loss of $253 million for the current quarter compared to a $342 million loss a year ago.
The reduction in the loss reflects lower net expenses and a greater contribution from investment income in the current quarter.
While expenses in corporate and other are inherently variable the current quarter level is below our recent average partly due to a benefit of roughly $20 million from fixed asset sales.
The contribution from investment income in the current quarter includes about $30 million of returns on assets that were previously associated with our former Closed Block business and initially transferred to corporate and other when we completed the restructuring of that business at the beginning of this year.
We would expect the vast majority of these assets to be utilized or deployed in the relative near term.
And now I'll hand it over to Rob.
Thanks Mark.
I'm going to give you an update on some key items under the heading of financial strength and flexibility.
Starting on slide 22 we continue to manage our insurance companies to levels of capital that we believe are consistent with AA standards.
For Prudential Insurance we managed to a 400% RBC ratio.
As of year-end Prudential Insurance reported an RBC ratio of 498% with total adjusted capital or TAC of $15 billion.
While we don't perform a quarterly bottoms-up RBC calculation we estimate that our RBC ratio as of the end of the first quarter is well above our 400% target.
In Japan Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar Life reported strong solvency margins of 909% and 898% as of their December 31 2014 which is their most recent reporting date.
These are comfortably above our 600% to 700% targets.
Our Japanese companies will soon report solvency margins as of their March 31 2015 fiscal year-end.
And while calculations are not yet final we expect that we will continue to be in a strong position relative to our targets.
Looking at our overall capital position on slide 23 we calculate our on balance sheet capital capacity by comparing the statutory capital position of Prudential Insurance to our 400% target RBC ratio and then add capital capacity held in our other operations including in Japan and of the parent company.
As of year-end we estimated our available on balance sheet capital capacity at approximately $2 billion on a net basis.
This represented about $4 billion of gross capital capacity less $2 billion to pay down debt in order to arrive at our long-term targeted financial leverage ratio of 25%.
During the first quarter our estimated gross on balance sheet capital capacity increased from about $4 billion to over $4.5 billion.
On a net business after earmarking roughly $2 billion for debt paydowns to arrive at our targeted 25% financial leverage ratio capital capacity at the end of the first quarter increased to over $2.5 billion.
The increase in our net capital capacity during the quarter was the result of capital generated by our businesses and the benefit of about $500 million after tax from our Japan capital hedge including about $300 million from cash settlements and $200 million from hedges that were locked in.
These contributors to our capital capacity more than offset a modest net negative decline from interest rates in the quarter.
And about $500 million of shareholder distributions including $250 million of share repurchases and our quarterly dividend of $0.58 per share.
The fair value of the Japan capital hedge after subtracting the first quarter settlements and lock-ins would be about $2 billion as of the end of the quarter.
Turning to the cash position at the parent company cash and short-term investments net of outstanding commercial paper amounted to about $3.7 billion as of the end of the first quarter.
The cash in excess of our targeted $1.3 billion liquidity cushion is available to repay maturing operating debt to fund operating needs and to deploy over time for strategic and capital management purposes.
Now I'll turn it back over to John.
Hey thank you Rob.
Thank you Mark.
Now we'd like to open it up for questions.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
And our first question will come from the line of Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi I had a couple of questions on your international business.
Gibraltar your sales were up a lot and I think in the bank channel you've had success selling more than the paid premium products.
So we've seen some other companies back out of the bank channel.
So what type of returns are you getting on bank channel sales in the current interest rate environment? And then secondly on the Life Planner count it was up 2% sequentially this quarter.
So is something changing in the business or was this an aberration this quarter because that seems stronger than it's been in the recent past? Sure let me take those in order Jimmy.
And let me start by making some overall comment about sort of the rate environment and how we approach pricing and then I'll get into the bank channel and then I'll answer your second question.
But my first comment is an important one and that is we have expected profitability targets for each of our products and margins may vary or hurdle rates may vary on specific products but every product has to stand on its own merit.
So we don't have loss leader products in any sense.
As a result we continue to examine our product lineup and its profitability adjusting pricing when necessary to reflect lower rate levels and we also reduce commissions or discontinue sales of certain products that can't meet profit expectations.
As an example Gibraltar Life stopped selling a six-year single premium endowment product effective at the end of this quarter just because we thought we should eliminate it from the product lineup.
So in terms of an overall framework with which we think about profitability we really have three different aspects to it.
You can think of three circles and we talked about this before.
But first you have the customer need and you have to provide products to fulfill those needs.
Secondly you have product profitability and each product again has to stand on its own relative to the hurdle rate we've established for it.
And third you have business mix which is how much of any given product do we want to sell relative to return and to risk.
So if we think about that relative to the bank strategy what I would say is that we have a very differentiated strategy relative to others.
When we first acquired Star/Edison there were over 100 banks in total but consistent with what we've done in the independent agency channel or even with the number of life consultants we have we reduced the number of relationships focusing on quality product and service and focusing on fit with our partners.
We now have about 60 partners that currently offer our products and we sold through over 90% of them this past quarter.
So three points of differentiation that affect the profitability of our product within the bank segment.
First is that we provide exceptional service to our banking partners.
We cover the banks with over 200 (35:36) that come from Life Planners and this will get to the other comment in a minute about Life Planners.
And so we don't necessarily have to have the lowest price.
We have to have a reasonable price on our product but we don't have to have the lowest price because we're not spread-sheeted we're thought of in a different way and that is the relationship we have with the banks and the service we provide to them.
That leads to the second point which is our focus on death protection.
So the majority of our sales include mortality and expense margins.
In other words 70% of our first quarter sales had an M&amp;E component to it.
Additionally we have a higher proportion of recurring premium insurance products as opposed to just having savings products.
So two-thirds of the recurring premium insurance products are 10 Pay and longer they're just not three Pay accelerated to a single premium.
But in terms of single premium the single premium annuity life products we do sell through the channel are re-priced twice a month taking into account current interest rates and most have MVA features.
So we feel very good about the differentiated strategy we employ the mix of products we sell and the resultant profitability of the business.
So that hopefully answers your first question.
Yeah.
Now in terms of the second question in terms of LP count and why it was up so much you may recall that last year we said that we had a very high number of Life Planners that moved over to become sales managers and they transferred over in April of 2014.
That has led directly to higher recruiting.
Now it takes a while for those sales managers to get up to speed to train to start looking for recruiting but what we said back then in the second quarter call was that we would expect to see a larger number of LPs come on board at the end of the year or the beginning of this year.
So there's really a couple of things happening.
There is much higher recruiting that's taking place as a result of the higher number of sales managers but there's also fewer terminations given the amount of business that we're doing.
Now in terms of the overall LP count what we can say is that if you look over a five-year period you really see a lower growth rate than this quarter.
So if you were to average out the LP count in Japan it's really over five years been sort of 1% to 2%.
We've had some quarters that are flat maybe some that are a little negative if we've transferred a lot of LPs over to SMs but in general – and then some that have been higher as a result of that.
But in general it's sort of 1% to 2%.
If you look at the Life Planner business as a whole within PII you'll see that the Life Planner growth over five years has been sort of 2% to 3% because you have a higher growth rate in places like Brazil and perhaps some others.
But that's generally what you expect.
So this is higher than we'd normally expect but you'd expect some aberration quarter-to-quarter depending upon the dynamics of how many people we've transferred and what's going on.
Okay.
And then lastly if I could ask about your tax rate overall I think you'd spoken about 27%-ish or so previously but the tax rate was 25.6% this quarter.
So what drove that and what's your expectation for the year? Jimmy it's Rob Falzon.
The primary driver to the difference between the tax rate we gave at guidance which was actually just a little under 27% and the number that you're seeing in our first quarter results was the decreases in taxes in Japan.
We blend that it into our overall tax rate as a result of the earnings that we keep there versus repatriating we wind up with the delta that you've seen and that number the 25.6% is the number that we think is sustainable for the year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Great thanks.
Good morning.
A couple of questions on capital.
First you commented that declining interest rates were only a slight negative to available capital.
Does that imply that the recent backswing in rates that we've seen thus far this quarter will only be a slight positive? And then on the Japan capital hedge what should we expect with regards to further gains over the remainder of the year assuming no major changes in exchange rates from here? Nigel it's Rob again.
So let me first use this as an opportunity on the interest rate question to talk a little bit more broadly on how we connect risks with the management of capital.
And we've hit on this theme at both Investor Day and Financial Strength Symposium but it's probably good to set the context.
First our businesses and the capital that supports those businesses are sensitive to the markets.
Our construct is a capital protection framework that we've spoken about before and that's what we use to manage the sensitivity.
We think about risks as being a spectrum between tail events and less severe scenarios which we think about as being in the quote body of the distribution of volatility.
Our objective is to take off the table risks that are associated with tail events.
For less extreme market conditions things that are in the body of the distribution we hedge the vast majority of those risks particularly in the equity and the interest rate worlds and we think about those risks across our business units as they're netted at the enterprise level.
In John's opening remarks he observed that our longevity and mortality experiences in our different businesses largely offset each other and with respect to interest rates we have a similar phenomenon in that our annuities are exposed to declining rates.
But other parts of our businesses actually have exposure to rising rates particularly a spike in interest rates.
We calibrate our hedging in order to accept some level of volatility in our excess capital capacity.
It's necessary because as we've described earlier and particularly on the fourth quarter call the nature of these risks are non-linear.
They change as markets move and the available hedging instruments that we have sometimes don't track these movements well.
Additionally the risks vary between businesses.
In any given period the economics may get offset but the accounting doesn't always reflect this.
And to the extent that we have capital being generated in one business and capital needed in another that is not always fungible in a particular period we have to wait for future periods in order to monetize those offsets.
We're constantly recalibrating our hedging to address the tail risks as markets move and as our capital capacity and leverage change.
We have multiple tools for doing this to ensure that we remain within our risk tolerances.
And probably the one last thing I want to add on this is that in the normal of course of our business we generate a substantial amount of excess capital from our businesses annually.
It's why we've increased our guidance around free cash flow up to about 60% of AOI.
If you look in the course of 2014 and this quarter over 40% of our normalized operating income has been returned or distributed in the form of dividends and share repurchases while reducing our debt by over $2 billion and funding our PRT and M&amp;A pipeline.
So with that as a way of sort of context let me talk specifically about the interest rate sensitivity in the quarter and comparing that to the first quarter and your question about what may happen when interest rates come up.
First vis-à-vis last quarter the level of rate movement is about half what we saw in the fourth quarter of 2014.
And recall that the sensitivity we had then was driven in large part by AAT and within AAT there was a large component that was driven by model refinements not interest rate movements in and of themselves.
With respect to Pruco Re specifically it had less of an impact this quarter and that's because as rates continue to decline the option portion of our hedging becomes more meaningful.
We become less sensitive to rate movements as rates decline.
So the converse of that is that as rates climb back up we actually recapture some of that movement in rate.
So it is not symmetric it's actually somewhat asymmetric in terms of the trade-off between capital and the movement in interest rates.
The offset to what happens in Pruco Re is in other businesses.
There as I noted before many of which have some long sensitivity to interest rates and so the net capital capacity impact between what happens in the Annuity business and Pruco Re and what happens in our other business that are manifested in PICA and other entities is actually relatively modest.
And we look to monetize in order to be able to offset those things as we're able to get dividends out of our subsidiaries.
So in the case of PICA by way of example we filed for a $2 billion dividend and we received regulatory approval for that dividend and expect that to come up in the course of the second quarter.
And that will help us to then monetize the positive variance we had from interest rate movements or offset the negative variance that we had within Pruco Re.
I think your last question was on FX and the equity hedge.
We had about a $0.5 billion this quarter that – of increased capacity from that.
About $300 million of that was what was normally coming in the form of settlements during the period.
And then there was about $200 million that resulted from an acceleration of our – of locking in the settlements.
I would note that the capital capacity would have increased even if we hadn't done this acceleration that was more of a tactical initiative.
And the value of the hedges that we currently have in place net of the $500 million that we've counted to our capital capacity this quarter is still around $2 billion.
On a pre-tax basis you'll see around 10% or so of that still available to be monetized this year.
And there's about 20% that's scheduled to be monetized next year.
That's all assuming that exchange rates don't change from where they are today.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi thank you.
Rob just wanted to follow up on a couple of your comments on capital and kind of your willingness to accept some volatility there.
I guess first how do you think about that volatility ahead of being subject to a potential balance sheet stress test from the Fed? And do you think that they would view kind of volatility the same way? And secondly with the $2.5 billion of deployable excess capital do you view that as all truly deployable or does some of it need to be retained as a buffer in case markets move against you in the short-term? Erik this is Mark.
Let me start off with a comment on capital standards.
As you know we don't yet have capital standards.
We're constructively engaged in the process of developing capital standards with the Federal Reserve domestically but also as part of a number of moving parts on the international arena.
And I think it's early to speculate on the context of stress test and short-term volatility without the underpinning of the genuine view of capital.
And as you know the way we've talked about it and the points I made for example about margins and reserves on Investor Day we take a longer term view of the loss absorption capacity of the company which is in many respects a totally separate point from short-term accounting volatility.
And so I'd be thinking about the fact that loss absorption capacity and quarterly accounting volatility are very different points.
The real constructive approach to solvency and stress testing will focus on loss absorption capacity and the assets that we have available to meet all of our obligations.
However they're categorized as line items on the GAAP financials.
And I'll ask Rob if he wants to add anything to that and then let him take the second.
Well I would merely observe that we do look at tail events and we try to take that risk off the table as I indicated.
So while we don't have a construct in place to the extent that that's stress testing as we anticipate we'll be looking at severe scenarios.
That's the risk that we try to address through our capital protection framework that we don't tolerate and don't want to see that variability come in on a quarter to quarter basis.
With regard to the variability quarter to quarter yeah there'll be some noise in our capital capacity as a result of interest rate movements.
We'd expect as interest rates move back up that that will add to our capital capacity in the way that it is moderately trimmed on capital capacity in this quarter as we described.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks that's helpful.
And then just one quick question on PRT.
Can you give us a sense of how quickly the earnings in capital run off on the funded deals? And how much capital will be freed from prior deals in 2015? Chief Operating Officer U.S.
Businesses</span></strong> Erik this is Steve.
I'll comment on the asset front.
Generally speaking in PRT on the funded side we experience about $700 million in runoff on a quarterly basis and on the longevity side about $400 million.
And I don't have a specific forecast on what that would do to our capital capacity.
Obviously what happens is as those are running off the reserves in the pad that we have in those reserves burns off as well and then we'll establish some level of increase in our capital capacity.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Rob just to start out just a follow-up on the interest rate sensitivity to capital comments you made.
Would that also be true if you look at through say year-end 2015 that your sensitivity would be less to a further decline in rates all else equal relative to the way it played out last year? So I assume Tom you're referring to the impact of AAT and I'd sort of make two observations.
The first is that...
Well sorry Rob AAT and VA sensitivity we'll call it.
Yeah Okay.
So the VA sensitivity as I described further declines in interest rates – that volatility is substantially muted to further declines in interest rates because of the impact of the – of options in our hedging strategy.
And so it is likely that what you'll see as you look forward is if interest rates were to move down further you would see that the declines there would be more muted and would continue to be substantially offset by the gains that we would have in other parts of the enterprise.
And we try to calibrate it just that way.
With outside of Pruco Re with respect to the broader impact of AAT I would reiterate what I said before which is a substantial portion of our AAT increased during the course of last year was a result of model refinements.
The actual impact resulting from interest rates was a smaller component of that.
And as we look forward we would expect therefore that the impact from AAT would not be particularly draconian but that'll be a function of actually where interest rates wind up at year end.
I think as you know there's a – the way that formula works there's a flooring mechanism which is calibrated off the five-year and so as rates continue to decline the impact from AAT actually gets moderated as those rates go down.
Right.
Okay thanks.
And of the remaining $2 billion Japan capital hedge should we think about all of that over time being monetizeable and into the excess capital bucket? Or is there some portion of that that we should be thinking about that you'd need to hold against the risk in the Japanese business whether that's because you have a contingency plan that if the yen were to strengthen again you would need to use it or otherwise.
Well that $2 billion – the fair value of that will fluctuate as the currency exchange rate fluctuates Tom.
So to the extent that there's appreciation of the yen the $2 billion would be a lesser number on a go-forward basis.
Putting that aside which is that it will reflect where exchange rates are it reflects where they are today.
On an absolute basis whatever that number is it is completely available as capital to us and does not otherwise need to be held back for any reserves.
Got you.
And last question.
The comments made about the Closed Block the $2.6 billion of assets that are currently in corporate and other would be utilized or deployed over the near term is that to reduce debt or commercial paper? Can you just clarify what that's going to be used for? So that $2.6 billion will be redeployed out of corporate and other and hence why we've called out the gain in corporate other associated with it.
The way in which it gets deployed was contemplated in the guidance that we established at the beginning of the year.
And so there's a range of things that we could do with that that vary between debt reduction and M&amp;A and distributions to shareholders.
So without getting – being particularly specific about that what I would note is how we deploy that will influence where we thought in the range of guidance we might come out and the expectation is that that would be happening in a – that we would get it out of corporate and other on a relatively rapid basis meaning in the next quarter or two.
Rob that's all factored into the excess capital guidance that you've given out? Or is this somehow in addition? No that is factored in the – the capital capacity that exists is factored in and that is part of the $2 billion dividend that we'll be getting out of PICA that was approved by our regulators.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning everybody.
And maybe shifting gears a little bit from the capital side I was curious to hear your thoughts and comments about the DOL proposal.
I think one of your peers recently mentioned that VA sales to qualified plans could fall by up to 15% or 20% for the industry as a whole.
So want to hear your thoughts on that and where you see Pru fall in respect to that number.
Chief Operating Officer U.S.
Businesses</span></strong> Yaron this is Steve Pelletier.
Let me address your question and I'll address it more broadly and then touch upon a few particular areas including the Annuities business.
First off just let me say right up-front that we certainly support a regulatory framework that helps ensure client confidence in the advice the services and the solutions they receive.
We're reviewing the proposed regulation and we will be participating in the industry commentary.
As it stands today as it's written today the proposed regulation would certainly have some industry-wide impacts of increased compliance costs for starters.
At the same time though we think that our business mix and the strength of our franchises position us pretty well for adapting to any changes that are brought about by this regulation.
Let me give examples of that in three areas of potential impact that are being widely discussed.
First IRA rollovers.
As it stands today the regulation could make that process more complicated.
But the IRA rollovers that we do directly with clients are a modest portion of our overall business mix.
And if these regulations do result in a higher retention of assets and DC plans that would be a positive offset that we'd have in our Retirement business.
Second speaking of Retirement let me talk for a minute about DC record keeping.
Our business in that space has a couple of key risk mitigants in regard to the proposed regulation.
Virtually all of our business is done with companies who have over 100 participants in their plan and that's not by accident.
That's due to our mid-market focus in this business.
And that segment as you know is relatively less affected by the proposals.
Also we've always approached this business with an open architecture philosophy as it regards the investment platform.
We certainly have participation of proprietary offerings on our platform because we have high-quality proprietary offerings but we don't rely on those offerings being predominant in the platform.
The third area of potential impact would be something that we'd experience jointly with our distribution partners in the Annuities business as you asked about.
We have very strong distribution relationships and we have top tier positions in every major distribution channel in the business.
We offer a range of products and solutions and as John and Mark both mentioned in their opening comments that diversified product range is really gaining traction in the business.
And those solutions all come with a range of compensation options for the advisor ranging from commission-based to fee-based.
I think we will need to do some work with our distribution partners to ensure continued availability of solutions to clients but we do feel that all the factors I just mentioned give us the basis for doing that work with our partners to achieve the very important goal of ensuring that their clients have continued access to high-quality retirement income options very much including the guaranteed lifetime income that is really distinctive to the annuities industry and that we'll be able to make these offerings available on terms that work for everybody including of course the Prudential shareholder.
Inc.</span></strong> So a follow-up on that.
As you're selling more of the non-living benefit guaranteed product do you think that would come under greater pressure with this proposal? And also could you maybe give us some quantification as to what percentage of your VA business is qualified versus – is in qualified plans versus non-qualified or what percentage is from a fee commission – fee business versus a commission business? Chief Operating Officer U.S.
Businesses</span></strong> About two-thirds of our business Yaron is done with qualified money that's consistent with industry averages.
And if you're talking about the compensation breakdown about a third is done on a purely commission based – sorry about two-thirds is done on purely commission-based business and the remainder is done with a mix of commission-based and fee-based.
Inc.</span></strong> And then thoughts on living benefits or...
Chief Operating Officer U.S.
Businesses</span></strong> I think the living benefit strategy and looking to diversify our product range is a strategy that we would continue to maintain over time.
I don't think that particular element would be specifically impacted by the regulatory change.
Like I say what we need to do is work with our distribution partners to ensure that we can make the adjustments necessary to provide continued availability of the full range of product sets to their clients.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you for the comments.
Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Thank you.
Cynthia I think we'll take one more question please.
Thank you.
And that will be from the line of Steve Schwartz with Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everybody.
Just a quick couple.
Mark you talked about the adverse mortality in life the $35 million.
And it wasn't clear to me are you referencing that $35 million relative to a quarterly average or were you referencing that $35 million relative to what would normally be adverse seasonality in the first quarter? Steve it's actually Rob.
That quantification is against an average for the year so it is not adjusted for seasonality.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Rob would you happen to know if it were what the effect would be? No I don't.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Something to get from Mark.
And then just one more.
Going back to the question of VA and the effective interest rates I just want to make sure I understand what you're saying here.
At lower rates okay the sensitivity is lower such that if rates were to go lower from here it wouldn't be that big of a deal and there are other areas in the business that would benefit that would make up the difference? They would directionally offset.
They aren't perfectly hedged but you'll see derivative marks going the other way from the specific impact of interest rates on the VA living benefit hedge.
Now keep in mind there are a lot of moving parts in that VA living benefit hedge.
So you can't always look at that and make a linear connection to interest rates either.
But I think the answer to your question is there are directional offsets in other parts of the company as Rob referenced that mitigate the impact of interest rates directly on the VA living benefit.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So to follow up from that that would be at this level but it didn't really when you move down from 2.6% to 2.19% or wherever we were.
Are you talking about the fourth quarter movement? Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Yeah I'm trying to compare the two.
Yeah.
So as I mentioned what happens is as rates get lower and we remove the tail risk associated with continued lower interest rates the hedging strategy that we have kicks in such that we have a significantly more muted effect at current levels than we would have at levels that would have been mid 2% range.
But even in the fourth quarter I don't have this number right in front of me but there were gains on duration management derivatives of several hundred million dollars that went the other way from the move you're talking about.
So the answer is yes there was some of that in the fourth quarter.
There were less other things that mitigated the overall impact but there was a meaningful meaning several hundred million dollars going the other way in other derivative marks.
And you can find it if you go back and look or call Mark we'll tell you the answer.
I don't remember the exact number.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I will do that.
Thank you guys.
Thank you and ladies and gentlemen today's teleconference will be available for replay after 1:30 p.m.
today until midnight May 14.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 349035.
International participants may dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers once again 1-800-475-6701 or 320-365-3844 and enter the access code of 349035.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Teleconference.
At this time all lines are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session; instructions will be given to you at that time.
And as a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Mark Finkelstein.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Cynthia.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Representing Prudential on today's call are John Strangfeld CEO; Mark Grier Vice Chairman; Charlie Lowrey Head of International Businesses; Steve Pelletier Head of Domestic Businesses; Rob Falzon Chief Financial Officer ; and Rob Axel Controller and Principal Accounting Officer.
We will start with prepared comments by John Mark and Rob and then we will answer your questions.
Today's presentation may include forward-looking statements.
It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today.
In addition this presentation may include references to non-GAAP measures.
For a reconciliation of such measures to the comparable GAAP measures and a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements please see the section titled Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measure of our earnings press release which can be found on our website at www.investor.prudential.com.
John I'll hand it over to you.
Thank you Mark.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Prudential reported strong second quarter results driven by solid fundamentals across our businesses.
We achieved operating earnings per share of $2.62 after adjusting for market-driven and discrete items representing a 4% increase over prior year earnings.
This quarter's ROE is in excess of 15% as we continue to outperform our longer term target of 13% to 14%.
Our operating results reflect solid core growth fundamentals across many of our businesses and favorable underwriting margins which more than offset the headwinds presented by continuing low-interest rates and adverse currency impacts.
Net income for the quarter was modestly above operating earnings.
And I would also highlight that during the quarter we completed our annual review of actuarial assumptions and this had a relatively benign impact on current quarter results.
Mark and Rob will walk through the specifics of our key drivers results and capital position.
I will provide some high-level observations.
To start we are pleased with the core growth drivers across our enterprise.
Retirement and Asset Management both had $6 billion of positive net flows.
Retirement benefited from pension risk transfer cases that closed in the quarter and Asset Management continues to attract assets based on its strong investment performance and proven capabilities.
Our Individual Life Insurance business produced 26% sales growth over the prior year.
This was accomplished while achieving appropriate returns and meeting product diversification targets.
We also completed our integration of The Hartford Life acquisition with targeted run rate annual savings of $90 million achieved and integration costs a little better meaning lower than our expectations.
And we had solid sales results in our International business producing overall sales growth of 6% over the prior year with increases in both our Life Planner and Gibraltar businesses.
I would highlight that Life Planner constant currency insurance revenue growth was a solid 9% over the prior year.
Our Annuities business continues to show stable sales results as we have carefully managed pricing and product features.
But importantly our product and risk diversification effort is showing success.
Only about one-third of our total Annuities sales this quarter includes equity focused living benefit guarantees where we retain the exposure.
And over time this should help lower the volatility in our Annuities business.
We also benefited this quarter from strong underwriting margins in several of our businesses including our Life Insurance and Retirement businesses which produced underwriting results better than our average expectations.
And our Group Insurance business continues to benefit from pricing and underwriting actions in our disability block.
Overall as we look at our businesses and our opportunities for measured growth we remain confident that we will continue to produce strong earnings that will generate substantial deployable capital that can be used to support outsized organic and inorganic growth initiatives and returns of capital to shareholders through dividends and buybacks all while maintaining a strong balance sheet.
Recall that we believe our business model generates cash flow equal to about 60% of operating earnings over time.
Now DOL.
As most of you are aware we followed a comment letter on July 21 with the Department of Labor in response to proposed regulations that effectively redefine who will be considered a fiduciary in transactions that involve certain plans plan participants and IRAs.
In that letter we have requested clarification on certain provisions within the proposed regulation as well as made suggestions for modifications to ensure that consumer access to important retirement products is not impeded.
And while we embrace effective regulation like others we are concerned about unintended consequences that could have – result from these proposed regulations.
Having said that we benefit from a diversified business model by geography by product and by distribution channel.
And so while the process is still very much in flux we remain confident that we will successfully navigate whatever the ultimate outcome may be.
Otherwise we continue to work with our Federal Reserve supervisor and international regulatory bodies on capital frameworks and remain encouraged with the dialogue in developing capital standards that reflect the unique attributes of insurance.
With that I'll hand it over to Mark.
Thanks John good morning good afternoon or good evening.
Thank you for joining our earnings call this morning.
I'll take you through our results and then I'll turn it over to Rob Falzon who will cover our capital and liquidity picture.
I'll start with an overview of our financial results for the quarter shown on slide two.
On a reported basis common stock earnings per share amounted to $2.91 for the second quarter based on after-tax adjusted operating income.
This compares to EPS of $2.49 a year ago.
After adjusting for market-driven and discrete items in both the current quarter and the year-ago quarter EPS was up 4% amounting to $2.62 compared to $2.51 a year ago.
Looking across our businesses here are some highlights of this comparison.
I'll mention four key items.
First higher fees reflecting growth in average account values in our Annuities business and greater assets under management in our Asset Management business.
Second improved claims and reserve experience in our U.S.
Insurance businesses.
Third a greater contribution from pension risk transfer case experience which continued to be more favorable than our average expectations.
And fourth in International Insurance continued growth on a constant currency basis in our Life Planner operations.
These benefits were offset by three primary items.
One higher net expenses in several businesses.
Two a lower contribution from net investment results with returns on non-coupon investments below our average expectations in the current quarter.
And three less favorable currency exchange rates in International Insurance.
I would also note that decreased corporate income tax rates in Japan drove a lower effective tax rate in the current quarter.
On a GAAP basis including amounts categorized as realized investment gains or losses and results from divested businesses we reported net income of $1.4 billion for the current quarter modestly above our after-tax adjusted operating income.
We've taken some steps to mitigate volatility of our reported net income in relation to the operating results driven by our business performance particularly with respect to foreign currency exchange rate remeasurement.
Book value per share excluding accumulated other comprehensive income or AOCI and after adjusting the numbers to remove the impact of foreign currency exchange rate remeasurement amounted to $71.09 at the end of the second quarter up by $6.34 from year-end after the payment of two quarterly dividends totaling $1.16 per share.
This includes the benefit of the Closed Block restructuring in the first quarter.
Annualized ROE for the first half of the year was 15.6% based on after-tax adjusted operating income excluding market-driven and discrete items and using book value excluding AOCI and the impact of foreign currency remeasurement.
This ROE reflects strong underlying business performance bolstered by a net benefit that we would estimate at about 110 basis points from net favorable variances in comparison to our average quarterly expectations in a number of areas.
These include the seasonal revenue pattern in our International businesses pension risk transfer case experience returns on non-coupon investments and items that affected Corporate and Other results in the first quarter.
I'll discuss the impact of these run rate items on the current quarter in reviewing our business results.
Slide three presents the AOI impact of our assumption updates.
This year's annual review of actuarial assumptions had a net favorable impact of $117 million on pre-tax adjusted operating income or $0.17 per share.
The most significant items are a $68 million benefit in Individual Life to adjust amortization and reserves including the impact of a mortality experience update on legacy business; $31 million in Annuities mainly driven by more favorable guaranteed minimum income benefit utilization experience; and $28 million in Group Insurance primarily from more favorable disability claims resolution experience.
As you'll recall we moved up the annual actuarial review to the second quarter in order to have a refreshed view of our assumption update in place before the start of our year-end forecasting and capital planning cycle.
Last year's review completed in the third quarter had a net unfavorable impact of $186 million on pre-tax adjusted operating income.
Turning to slide four.
The remainder of this quarter's list of market-driven and discrete items included in our results consists of only two items with a net benefit to results of $0.12 per share.
In the Annuities business we released reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits and adjusted DAC to affect market performance and future expectations resulting in a benefit of $0.13 per share.
And in Individual Life we absorbed integration costs of about $0.01 per share related to The Hartford Life acquisition.
The current quarter marks the substantial completion of the business integration and these costs.
Over the two-and-a-half years since the acquisition we have integrated the distribution platforms and product portfolios and achieved our targeted $90 million of annual run rate cost savings with the full impact commencing in the third quarter of this year.
Total integration costs amounted to $110 million or $10 million less than our original expectation.
During the year-ago quarter market-driven and discrete items produced a net charge of $0.02 per share.
Moving to slide five.
On a GAAP basis our net income of $1.4 billion in the current quarter includes amounts characterized as net realized investment gains of $286 million and divested business results and other items outside of adjusted operating income amounting to a pre-tax loss of $43 million comprised of the items you see on this slide.
Of the larger items product-related embedded derivatives and hedging activity had a positive impact of $510 million as the benefit from the increase in interest rates in the quarter was partially offset by the application of credit spreads to our gross GAAP liability for Variable Annuity living benefits.
General portfolio and related activities mainly in our International operations resulted in net pre-tax gains of $405 million.
And mark-to-market losses on derivatives including those used to manage asset/liability durations with values that reflect changes in interest rates had a negative impact of $728 million.
The current quarter loss from divested businesses of $57 million mainly relates to long term care and includes interest rate-driven decreases in the market value of derivatives.
Moving to our business results and starting on slide six I'll discuss the comparative results excluding the market-driven and discrete items I have mentioned.
Slide six highlights Individual Annuities.
Annuities results were $423 million for the quarter up $29 million from a year ago.
Slide seven gives a view of our trend in earnings and return on assets.
Most of our operating earnings in the Annuities business come from base contract charges linked to daily account values.
The 7% earnings increase exceeded the growth of average account values from a year ago resulting in a higher return on assets or ROA in the current quarter.
ROA for the quarter was 105 basis points up from 101 basis points in the year-ago quarter.
Lower interest expense and more favorable base amortization factors in the current quarter contributed to the higher ROA.
Looking back over the five quarters shown on the slide I would note that ROA tends to vary within a range depending on the quarterly pattern of expenses and other non-linear items.
Slide eight covers our Annuity sales.
Our gross Variable Annuity sales for the quarter were $2.3 billion compared to $2.7 billion in the year-ago quarter.
Our risk diversification strategy has resulted in a dramatic change in the mix of new sales with just over one-third of our new business for the current quarter adding to our net exposure to equity market linked Highest Daily or HDI living benefit guarantees compared to 70% in the year-ago quarter.
As we discussed on our Investor Day effective on April 1 we entered into an agreement with Union Hamilton to reinsure approximately 50% of our HDI 3.0 optional living benefit risk on new business for this year and 2016 up to a maximum of $5 billion.
This agreement will effectively convert about half of our sales with the HDI rider to sales without optional living benefits.
During the current quarter we reinsured the living benefit rider risk associated with about $550 million of the $1.4 billion of total HDI sales.
In addition we sold approximately $600 million of our Prudential Defined Income product which directs a client's investment to a fixed income fund that we manage and sales include about $350 million of products without a living benefit guarantee.
Overall only about one-third of our Variable Annuity sales in the quarter include living benefit riders with equity market exposure that we are retaining.
Slide nine highlights the Retirement business.
Earnings for the Retirement business amounted to $237 million for the current quarter down by $49 million from $286 million a year ago.
The decrease was driven by a $55 million lower contribution from net investment results.
Current quarter returns from non-coupon investments were about $20 million below our average expectations while the contribution to results for the year-ago quarter was about $10 million above our average expectations.
Fixed income returns were also lower in the current quarter as the impact of lower earned rates on our institutional and full-service product portfolios more than offset the benefit of growth in our funded pension risk transfer business.
The lower contribution from net investment results was primarily offset by a greater contribution from case experience on pension risk transfer business which was about $25 million above our average quarterly expectation.
Turning to slide 10.
Total Retirement gross deposits and sales were $14.2 billion for the current quarter compared to $6.6 billion a year ago.
Standalone institutional gross sales were just over $9 billion in the current quarter compared to about $2 billion a year ago.
Current quarter sales reflected the closing of four significant pension risk transfer transactions totaling about $7 billion including roughly $5.5 billion of unfunded longevity reinsurance as well as $1.4 billion stable value wrap sale to an existing Group Life Insurance client.
Full service gross sales and deposits shown in the dark blue bars were $5 billion for the quarter up from $4.5 billion a year ago.
As we have commented in the past sales of both full service and institutional retirement products can fluctuate meaningfully on a quarterly basis.
Total Retirement account values amounted to $373 billion at the end of the quarter up by $42 billion or 13% from a year earlier reflecting net flows of about $35 billion largely driven by longevity reinsurance and funded pension risk transfer business together with favorable market performance.
Slide 11 highlights the Asset Management business.
The Asset Management business reported adjusted operating income of $196 million for the current quarter compared to $200 million a year ago.
While most of the segment's results come from asset management fees the decrease in earnings from a year ago was driven by a $9 million lower contribution from incentive transaction strategic investing and commercial mortgage activities.
This contribution which amounted to $24 million for the current quarter is inherently variable since it reflects changing valuation and the timing of transactions.
Asset management fees were $540 million for the current quarter up by 7% from a year ago largely tracking a 6% increase in unaffiliated third-party institutional and retail assets under management which totaled $471 billion at the end of the quarter.
Net inflows over the past year amounted to $14 billion including $6.4 billion in the current quarter which was largely driven by institutional fixed income mandates.
The benefit of higher asset management fees was largely offset by higher expenses.
The higher level of expenses in the current quarter includes variable compensation reflecting performance including our $3 billion increase in unaffiliated third-party asset under management net flows compared to a year ago investments we are making to build teams and infrastructure to expand our product and distribution capabilities and higher upfront commissions associated with $2 billion increase in gross retail inflows for the quarter.
Slide 12 highlights our U.S.
Individual Life business.
Individual Life earnings were $177 million for the current quarter up by $11 million from a year ago.
The increase in earnings was driven by more favorable claims experience in the current quarter including reserve updates mortality and related amortization.
The contribution to current quarter results was about $30 million more favorable than our average expectation.
This compares to a contribution from claims experience about $15 million more favorable than our average expectations a year ago on the same basis.
The benefit to current quarter results for a more favorable claims experience was partly offset by a lower contribution from investment results and higher expenses including distribution costs driven by increased sales.
Slide 13 shows Individual Life sales based on annualized new business premiums which amounted to $130 million for the current quarter up by $27 million from a year ago.
The higher level of sales reflects selective re-pricings to improve our competitive position where we saw opportunities to build business with appropriate returns together with expanding distribution and product enhancements over the past year.
The increase of $19 million in universal life sales was mainly driven by greater sales in selected age bands where we made pricing changes earlier this year to bring our rates more in line with the market.
Term insurance sales in the gray bars are up $6 million from a year ago with a continuing benefit from pricing changes we made last August.
We also saw an increase in variable life sales driven partly by product enhancement.
Slide 14 highlights the Group Insurance business.
Group Insurance earnings amounted to $47 million in the current quarter essentially unchanged from a year ago.
Benefits from continued improvement in group disability claims experience and more favorable group life underwriting results were largely offset by higher expenses and a lower contribution from investment results.
Slide 15 presents the trend of our Group Insurance benefit ratios after adjusting for the impact of the actuarial reviews in the current quarter and in the third quarter of last year.
In group disability favorable claims experience mainly driven by resolutions of existing claims produced an improvement of about eight percentage points in the benefit ratio from the year-ago quarter.
While the benefit from the actions we've taken including pricing adjustments and enhancements to our claims management process is now evident over several quarters and we recognized the history of improvements in long term disability claims resolution in our assumption update we continue to expect that claims experience will fluctuate from one quarter to another.
The group life benefits ratio was near the favorable end of our expected range and improved from a year ago including a benefit from fewer new claims.
Moving to International Insurance.
Slide 16 highlights our Life Planner operations.
Earnings for our Life Planner business were $392 million for the quarter up $10 million from a year ago.
Excluding a $12 million negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates which reflect our hedging of yen income at ¥91 (25:31) this year versus ¥82 (25:33) a year earlier earnings are up by $22 million or 6%.
Results benefited from continued business growth with insurance revenues including premiums policy charges and fees up by 9% from a year ago on a constant dollar basis.
The benefit to results from continued business growth was partly offset by higher expenses including technology costs and slightly less favorable mortality experience in the current quarter.
Slide 17 highlights Gibraltar Life and Other operations.
Earnings for Gibraltar Life were $471 million for the current quarter compared to $502 million a year ago.
Excluding a negative impact of $26 million on the comparison from foreign currency exchange rates results were essentially unchanged from a year ago.
Higher net expenses in the current quarter largely driven by a benefit from fixed asset sales a year ago more than offset a greater current quarter contribution of about $20 million from investment results.
The benefit to current quarter results from non-coupon investments and mortgage prepayment income was about $30 million above our average expectation.
Slide 18 shows the quarterly pattern of earnings for our International Insurance businesses over the past seven quarters.
Looking at the trend you can see the seasonality pattern that favors the first half of the year which results from a concentration of annual mode premium revenues for our Life Planner operations in the first quarter and for Gibraltar Life in the second quarter.
We would estimate that this benefited current quarter earnings for Gibraltar Life by about $40 million in relation to a quarterly average.
Turning to slide 19.
International Insurance sales on a constant dollar basis were $777 million for the current quarter up by $45 million or 6% from a year earlier.
Sales by our Life Planners in Japan shown in the dark blue bars were $183 million in the current quarter up $12 million or 7% from a year ago.
The increase reflected a 5% greater Life Planner count partly driven by our appointment of additional sales managers earlier in the year and higher agent productivity as measured by the number of policies sold per agent per month.
At a product level the increase came mainly from greater sales in term insurance.
Life Planner sales outside of Japan were up $14 million from a year ago mainly driven by an increase in Brazil where we've also grown Life Planner count meaningfully.
Gibraltar's Life Consultant sales shown in the light blue bars amounted to $204 million in the current quarter down by $16 million from a year ago.
This decrease was driven by lower fixed annuity sales as our reductions of crediting rates we offer on new business which are continually updated to reflect market interest rates made these products relatively less attractive than other investment-focused alternatives in the market.
Our fixed annuities have been popular among retiring teachers many of whom are clients of our Life Consultants for investment of lump-sum payouts upon retirement in the second quarter of the year.
Sales through the bank channel shown in the gray bars amounted to $191 million for the current quarter up $30 million or 19% from a year ago.
The increase was mainly driven by greater sales of U.S.
dollar-denominated whole life insurance reflecting broadening distribution among our Japanese bank relationships.
Sales through independent agents shown in the green bars amounted to $81 million in the current quarter.
The $5 million increase from a year ago was driven by greater sales of retirement products.
Slide 20 shows the results of Corporate and Other operations.
Corporate and Other operations reported a loss of $305 million for the current quarter compared to a $341 million loss a year ago.
The reduction in the loss came mainly from lower expenses in the current quarter.
Expenses in Corporate and Other are inherently variable and current quarter costs for items including deferred compensation programs and employee benefit plans were below recent averages accounting for about half of the reduction in loss.
An additional benefit from investment income on remaining assets that were formerly associated with our Closed Block business and initially transferred to Corporate and Other when we completed the restructuring of that business at the beginning of this year was largely offset by higher interest expense.
Now I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks Mark.
I'll now provide you an update on some key items under the heading of financial strength and flexibility.
Starting on slide 21.
We continue to manage our insurance companies to levels of capital that we believe are consistent with AA standards.
For Prudential Insurance we manage to a 400% RBC ratio.
As of year-end Prudential Insurance reported an RBC ratio of 498% with total adjusted capital or TAC of $15 billion.
While we don't perform a quarterly bottoms-up RBC calculation we estimate that our June 30 RBC ratio remains well above our 400% target after giving effect to results for the first half of the year including a $2 billion dividend to the parent company in May following the completion of our Closed Block restructuring.
In Japan Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar Life reported strong solvency margins of 844% and 882% respectively as of March 31 their fiscal year-end.
These solvency margins are comfortably above our targets.
Looking at our overall capital position on slide 22 we calculate our on-balance sheet capital capacity by comparing the statutory capital position of Prudential Insurance to our 400% RBC ratio target and then add capital capacity held in Japan and other operations and at the parent company.
As of year-end we estimated our available on-balance sheet capital capacity at approximately $2 billion on a net basis.
This represented about $4 billion of gross capital capacity less $2 billion earmarked to reduce capital debt to arrive at our long-term targeted financial leverage ratio of 25%.
Net capital capacity on the same basis increased to over $2.5 billion at the end of the first quarter.
During the second quarter our estimated on-balance sheet capital capacity increased to over $3 billion.
The current quarter increase was mainly driven by capital generated by our businesses and changes in interest rates which had a modest positive net impact on our capital position.
These increases to capital capacity more than offset about $500 million of distributions including $250 million each from share repurchases and our $0.58 per share quarterly dividend.
As I mentioned during the quarter Prudential Insurance paid a $2 billion dividend to PFI the holding company.
As a result of that dividend as well as other sources of capital generated we were able to reclassify about $2 billion from capital debt to operating debt as this debt is no longer supporting capital needs within our businesses.
As our outstanding debt matures all else equal funds will be available at the holding company to reduce overall borrowings.
As a result our financial leverage ratio is now below our targeted level of 25% and there is no adjustment to earmark a portion of our capital capacity for reduction of capital debt to arrive at this target.
Our overall level of borrowings is essentially unchanged from year-end and our total leverage ratio is down modestly reflecting the increase in our equity.
The fair value of the Japan equity hedge after subtracting the remaining unsettled amount that we locked in during the first quarter and already included in capital capacity was about $2.2 billion at June 30.
Turning to the cash position at the parent company cash and short-term investments net of outstanding commercial paper amounted to about $5.6 billion as of June 30.
The cash in excess of our targeted $1.3 billion liquidity cushion is available to repay maturing operating debt to fund operating needs and to redeploy over time for strategic and capital management purposes.
Now I'll turn it back over to John.
Thank you Rob.
Thank you Mark.
And we'd now like to open it up to questions.
Thank you.
And our first question will come from the line of Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi thank you.
I was hoping you could provide a little bit more detail around the drivers of the $500 million in improvement in excess capital particularly the capital generated by the business.
And maybe touch on any amounts from the settlements of the capital hedge that contributed to that.
Erik it's Rob.
Happy to do so.
As I said the capital that we generated this quarter was primarily from business earnings and there was a modest benefit from interest rates.
The math is relatively straightforward if you think about the guidance that we've given before.
If you look at our after-tax operating income you net from that the buybacks and dividends that we provided during the course of the quarter and the rule of thumb that we use for business growth that has the amount of capital that needs to be put back into our businesses to finance their growth you come up with a number that's pretty close to the $0.5 billion that we generated.
So it comes primarily from the earnings that are generated at the business level.
The capital hedge – I presume in that case you're referring to the FX equity hedge actually did not have a material impact in this quarter.
If you recall in the first quarter we accelerated some of the – locked in I should say some of the gains associated with that.
And so that included most of what we otherwise would've realized during the course of this quarter.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
That's helpful.
And given the volatility that we've seen in the excess capital over the past three quarters can you just talk about how comfortable you are in redeploying this capital? And does the volatility at all limit kind of your deployment options in terms of I guess how you would think about using that capital? I think Erik the way I would respond to that is we had – I think the volatility was limited to a single quarter as opposed to volatility that you've seen on a consistent basis first.
Secondly as we look at that capital capacity I think our inclination and philosophy toward redeployment has not changed.
We look at holding a prudent amount of it to ensure that we retain and/or maintain a strong balance sheet and we otherwise look to redeploy that capital either to finance growth organically or inorganically and to keep a balanced distribution back to our shareholders as well.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks.
Just the final question.
Given the recovery in the excess capital position and the uptick that we've seen in interest rates have you given any consideration to either reducing or eliminating the rate under-hedge? We look at our interest – that particular under-hedge is looked at in the context of our overall interest sensitivity across the enterprise.
At this point we're comfortable with where we stand on that position.
I think as we've said before we have a positive convexity toward interest rates meaning that as rates rise we will benefit and we'll benefit more than we would suffer should rates decline.
And we like that position at this point in the cycle.
Yeah this is Mark.
Let me just remind you that you need to take a broader view of that.
That narrow product under-hedge does go the other way from some other things in our income statement.
And particularly in my remarks I commented on nearly $800 million of negative mark-to-market on basically duration hedging derivatives.
And so you've got to think more generally about what goes the other way and how that's netted off before you start thinking about specifically the under-hedge as a standalone either view on rates or influence on our overall balance sheet.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you for the comments.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Seth Weiss with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning and thank you.
To follow up on the theme of capital if we look at the parent company cash and short-term investment $5.6 billion I believe this is the highest it's been in about two and a half years.
I understand excess capacity you think about holistically in terms of HoldCo and the statutory entities but given the higher parent company cash position should we think of that as any type of short-term opportunity to deploy or are there near-term timing needs of cash that we should consider? Seth I would point to the comment I made in my opening remarks about our leverage position and specifically I would note that if you look forward to maturing operating debt that we've got during the course of this year we've got about $2 billion worth of debt that matures in the second half of the year.
We're sitting on a substantial amount as you noted cash at the holding company and we would expect to be able to pair those things off during the course of the year.
Okay.
So is there no plan to roll those debts? We have a lot of liquidity sitting at the holding company and we don't – we would not based on our current position think that we would want to add to that liquidity by effectively rolling over our existing debt rather than look at the opportunity to just repay that as it becomes due in its natural course.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And if I could just follow up one in the Retirement segment.
I think we've seen positive case experience in the pension closeouts for several quarters or a couple years now.
Perhaps you could just comment maybe give a little bit more granularity on where that positive case experience is coming from and if that's something that – I know you're not guiding to anything sustainable there you're being pretty specific about calling that out in both the releases and in earnings calls here maybe just explain why that should normalize lower.
Seth this is Steve I'll comment on that.
I'm not going to attribute the positive case experience to any particular transactions or any particular part of the book.
I will say that we call it out because we recognize that these are liabilities with longer average duration about 9 years to 10 years on the funded side as we spoke about and about 8 years to 12 years on the longevity side.
So we're not about to take the positive case experience and kind of bake it into our expectations however I will say that as you pointed out the consistent positive case experience does serve to bolster our already high confidence that we've priced this business appropriately and assessed the risks accurately.
Okay.
Maybe just to follow up in terms of just the kind of risk characteristics of this.
Is this something that will have quarterly volatility like a group or life that maybe we're a little bit more accustomed to and that it's just been several quarters of good luck or is there may be just a better trend here that we could think about? Well I wouldn't necessarily call it good luck.
I'd call it again reflecting strong underwriting of the business.
But again this would be something that we wouldn't expect to see the same type of number emerging from this every single quarter.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
The first question I had is Rob when you take the 60% ratio of free cash flow versus GAAP earnings that you all have put out there and then you compare it to the results you've had for the last few quarters I get something closer to 90%.
And so my question is and I don't know if that would be precisely the way you would calculate it but I think directionally that's right.
Where is that we'll call it above average or above expectations capital generation where is that coming from right now? Is that something going on within the Arizona VA captive? Is that broadly related to interest rates? Can you just expand upon how you're over-earning from a cash flow generation standpoint right now? Tom without benefiting from exactly how you're doing your calculations I'd note a couple of things that have positively benefited our cash flow ratio the most significant of which would be the Closed Block transaction.
So as a result of that restructuring that we've talked about before there's been a substantial freeing up of cash from the Closed Block business up to the parent holding company and we've seen the benefit of that in our cash flow and hence that may be skewing the numbers that you're looking at.
And again then depending on the timeframe that you're looking at if you look at the positive convexity that I've mentioned that we have to interest rates as interest rates have increased from their lows we have benefited from that and that frees up capital in a way that you don't see it coming necessarily from earnings but from outside of earnings.
Oh and then I'm sorry the one other point is the benefit from the yen hedge.
So that's outside of our AOI number but winds up.
As we monetize that we're able to get the cash from that and you've seen that we've talked about that in the course of the first and second quarters that yen has contributed to cash that has been available and is sitting at the holding company.
The total of that on an after-tax basis in the first quarter we mentioned was several hundred million dollars.
And while it was not material in the second quarter we've benefited from that in the cash position.
Okay.
And then just a follow up.
The Closed Block transaction in terms of how much that moved the needle to your overall enterprise view of leverage and excess capital was how much? Well the dividend this year was $2 billion from PICA about $125 billion of that was associated with the Closed Block.
So if you – you could do the math and figure out the attribution of that to our decline in the capital ratio.
The decline in the financial ratio really came about by virtue of three things.
That was the first.
The second was we issued $1 billion of hybrids and 25% of that hybrid goes toward equity attribution and so that helps on the leverage ratio.
And the third was just a growth in our earnings during the course of the quarter that increased the denominator.
Okay thanks.
And then just one last follow up.
So I guess to get back on the question of interest rate sensitivity overall capital position would you guys be willing to provide sensitivities to this number which is now $3 billion in terms of balance sheet capital capacity how much sensitivity is there if we were to see a – say around year end this year a decline in interest rates to either a 2% level on the 10-year treasury or 1.5% is that something that you could help frame for us because that's one of the main questions that I still get from people as to one of the concerns that they have.
We have not provided direct sensitivities of capital to interest rates Tom.
I think what we did say on Investor Day is that we've run stresses and I think what we ran was a 50 basis point decline 50 basis point to 100 basis point decline in our – in levels of interest rates and looked at what that would do to our capital capacity and the result of that was a relatively modest impact to our capital capacity and just a slight elevation to our leverage ratio so I would say that we feel reasonably comfortable that our capital capacity is sustainable in a declining interest rate environment.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Suneet Kamath at UBS.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I wanted to start with Retirement if I could.
If I go back to the Investor Day you showed a helpful slide that shows the profit emergence of PRT versus longevity transactions over time.
So my question is what is the relative size of those two businesses? I'm not sure if – what's the right way to do it in terms of reserves or capital or earnings but can you give us some sense of given the deal that you've announced today the relative sizes of those two businesses? Suneet this is Steve.
I'll speak to the business that we've done in this quarter.
As Mark mentioned in his comments we had about $7 billion in sales in the quarter of which about $1.5 billion was funded business and the remainder was in several different longevity transactions.
In terms of the overall size of the book we're looking for that data now and can provide it to you in due course.
Okay great.
And I guess my follow up question is just a follow up to Seth's on the $2 billion of debt that's maturing that you're going to repay.
I haven't done the math on what the financial – the implications are for the financial leverage ratio if you repay that debt but just based on where you sit today it would seem that you're going to be well below your 25% target that you use when you assess access capital capacity.
So just wondering what the thought is there? Are we going to at some point see a reduction in that target from 25% to something lower? Or how should we think about that? The debt reduction would actually be in the total leverage ratio would not affect our financial leverage ratio.
So we've already re-characterized the debt that's to be repaid from financial to operating so the $2 billion that's coming up will further reduce – will then repay operating debt.
So our total financial ratio will decline from around 44% to around 42% but there would be no impact on the reported financial ratio.
Okay.
So you're still going to travel around that 25% target that you've talked about? That's our targeted number and while we may bump above or below it depending on any given quarter and particular situation that or opportunity that we're looking at our intent is to have it hover around that number yes.
Okay thanks.
Suneet let me just follow up on your question.
If you look at page 18 of the QFS we do break out total account values for longevity reinsurance and group annuities and other products so you'll see those numbers there.
Okay.
But is all that group annuity stuff PRT or are there other pieces in there? That's why I was - Yeah there are some other products and there's legacy PRT in there.
Okay.
All right I'll follow up later.
But you do see the longevity which is essentially the U.K.
longevity block that we've added over the last couple years.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi.
I had a few questions.
First on the FSA business you've had positive flows now I think for three straight quarters so – and this quarter was especially good.
So in the past your outlook for the business and your view on market trends hasn't been that positive.
I'm wondering if that's changed recently.
And then on Group benefits margins in both group life and disability seemed like they were unusually good.
Not sure if it was an aberration or it's the result of pricing actions that you've taken and is this somewhat of a sustainable level in margins into the second half? Or would you expect margins to compress from these levels? Jimmy this is Steve I'll address both your questions.
We think the full service flows that we've seen reflect the investments we've made in the business to be – to lower our unit costs and manage our unit costs more effectively and to improve our persistency and our sales pipeline.
So we think that the – like I say the sales we've seen reflect our enhancement of our competitive position.
By the same token we still view this as a highly competitive business and one in which sales and flows will be fairly chunky over time.
This quarter's sales did not reflect any particularly large jumbo cases on either the sales or on the withdrawal side but for example in – it's been publicly announced in July we closed the State of Connecticut business which was over $4 billion.
So we still view this as something that will like I say have its ups and downs and that we see as a highly competitive business in which we're going to maintain our pricing discipline.
On Group benefits ratios I'd segment it out into life and disability.
In life we think the guidance we've given of a target range for the benefit ratio between 88% and 92% still holds.
This was a good quarter at the lower end of that range but still within the range.
On disability we've given a similar range of 88% to 92%.
Quite frankly I do think that range is rather stale as we see our successful efforts in remediation of the existing book and as we in particular see our successful efforts in improving our claims management capabilities.
We think there's the potential for as things settle down in our remediation of this business for revising that target ratio over time.
I don't have a different type of figure for you yet but I would expect that as we take a look at that we'll come up with something that is in between the 88% to 92% range at the high-end and where we are today at the low-end.
Okay.
And then for Mark on the Department of Labor fiduciary standards how much of an impact do you expect the standards if they are approved in final form similar to how the preliminary guidance was how much of an impact would you see on your business and what are the specific product lines that you think will be the most affected? That's actually a question for Steve.
Jimmy I'll respond to that.
I think some people have been asked on their calls do they see the DOL impact as a net-negative or a net-positive.
We see it as a net-negative on the marketplace that we serve.
We see the risk of individuals having restricted access to advice and certain types of solutions in particular around guaranteed retirement income solutions.
Just to give you a little bit of a flavor the regulation itself is certainly voluminous and so is the industry commentary that has been made in response to the regulation.
I think it's far too early to anticipate exactly what changes will ultimately be enacted and to give you an estimate of the impact of those changes.
I can say that in our own comments we highlighted a few different areas that really need clarification or outright amendment.
To highlight a couple of those: like many in the industry we believe that the fiduciary definition in the regulation as drafted is too broad encompassing activities such as traditional marketing that were really never viewed as or intended to be fiduciary in nature.
We also share concerns expressed by many others that the best interest contract exemption as it's written and as it could be interpreted would be highly problematic and could entail higher compliance burdens and costs and potentially higher legal exposures for industry participants.
And we also highlighted where the DOL really needs to clarify and sharpen the distinction between education and advice.
For us in Prudential as I highlighted on our last earnings call we do believe that our market position our mix of businesses and the strength of our franchise will help us to adapt to any regulatory framework that emerges.
We think that there are some aspects of our particular business model that benefit us in this regard.
For example most of our DC recordkeeping businesses is with cases with over 100 participants already and that's relatively less impacted in this regulation.
The investment platforms supporting both our Retirement and our Annuities businesses already operate on very much of an open architecture basis and our own agency force Prudential Advisors sells a range of proprietary and non-proprietary products.
So we think we're relatively well positioned to deal with an emerging regulatory framework.
However we still do view this as I say as something that has the potential for unintended negative consequences on the marketplace and the clients that we serve.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from the line of Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thanks very much.
I'd like to start by talking about the Retirement business.
Just eyeballing the set of column charts on the right on slide 10.
I'll let you get to that.
It looks like the business the real growth in the business is on the longevity reinsurance side as opposed to the funded side.
Is that right? And if so why are clients gravitating towards that option? Eric this is Steve.
I think we've seen growth on both fronts.
I think that naturally speaking the longevity reinsurance business being reinsurance activities at its core tends to be in higher tickets higher transaction sizes.
But as we've spoken about before both in terms of earnings attribution and in terms of capital attribution the funded business has higher earnings per dollar of account value and higher capital attribution.
In terms of the solutions and what kind of marketplace is developing more rapidly I would say that the U.K.
longevity reinsurance industry has been established for several years now.
There's a regular stream of transactions in the marketplace in what has become a relatively well-established business.
The pension risk transfer business on the funded basis in the U.S.
tends to be more episodic in nature.
We still view the business as having developed very nicely over the past couple of years but particularly in the large case market in which we tend to do most of our business that's naturally going to be episodic in nature.
And Eric the longevity reinsurance transactions are more attractive to clients in the U.K.
for structural and cost reasons.
In the U.S.
we've actually done much better on the fully funded deals.
So it's not that clients choose one or the other you're kind of seeing two different places here.
Yeah the longevity reinsurance business really has not yet emerged in the U.S.
Before turning to a question about Annuity I just want to ask one quick one further about Retirement.
Just to make sure I understand what exactly we mean by case experience here being favorable.
Is the idea plainly and simply that deaths of plan participants are happening at a greater rate than you priced for so you're ceasing payments to annuitants sooner than you priced for it is that what you mean by favorable case experience? That's primarily it Eric.
There's also an impact from investment experience as well.
One last question regarding the Annuity business and I'll be wrapped up.
One of the things I noticed in your supplement is that despite the – what has now been a multi-quarter effort to de-risk the Annuity business the relationship between the two sets of account values those with higher risk and those with less risk whether they're reinsured or don't have equity risk hasn't really changed that's what at least I'm taking away from the supplement.
Is that right? And if so why hasn't this ratio changed? Well Eric I think on that front – this is Steve again – it's just more a matter of the math.
We have a very large in-force book and we have embarked on this product diversification effort for basically two years now.
We've had I think remarkable success in altering our sales pattern over those two years as Mark highlighted in his business commentary.
But the plain mathematical fact of the matter is that it will take time for that altered sales pattern to have a significant impact on the nature of the in-force.
Very good.
I'm all set.
Thanks very much.
Cynthia we'll take one more question please.
Certainly.
And that will be the line of Michael Kovac with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thanks for taking my question.
I'm just wondering on the assumption review this quarter if you could walk us through in a little more detail relative to last year what some of the underlying changes that you made were and specifically thinking about long-term and shorter term interest rate assumptions embedded in some of your products.
Michael it's Rob I'll try to tackle that.
First let me answer the latter part of it.
We actually brought down our long-term reversion rate both in the U.S.
and Japan by 25 basis points and that had a negative impact on our assumption update for the year.
Offsetting that were positive drivers that we had.
And if I had to sort of summarize them across the businesses it would be that mortality was a positive impact both in our Life and Corporate and Other business.
The annuity utilization rates specifically on our GMIB product was a positive impact and then we had a positive impact from long-term disability termination rates.
If you look at the AOI impact of that I think as Mark highlighted that was a positive of about $117 million but importantly on a GAAP net income basis it was also a positive of about $60 million and so while it had less of a positive impact on a GAAP basis we nonetheless had a positive outcome there as well.
Did that answer your question without getting into specifics on any individual business? Happy to do so if you're looking for more detail.
Yeah I can follow up on the individual businesses.
I was looking at the rate level.
And then one more question on the Annuities business I think you might have (63:19) run rate for this you called out some of the one-time items but is scale really driving this to a more reasonable maybe $425 million (63:28) run rate on a quarterly basis and that's part one on the Annuities.
And then second when you think about sales going forward with now the reinsurance in place do you expect to be able to accelerate the pace of sales in this business going forward? Michael it's Steve.
I'll tackle that.
In regard to how we view a run rate for the business I'd guide you to my comments that I made earlier about ROA.
We're pleased with the progress on that front but we still view this as a business where the sustainable ROA over time will be in the low-100-basis points ranging up to 105 basis points.
In regard to reinsurance we view that as a risk management initiative and tool.
We do not see it as something that we intend to use to lever up our HDI sales.
That's not how we view it at all.
We continue to price our HDI product without regard to the reinsurance contract for example.
And conduct ourselves in the market accordingly.
So I really emphasize that the reinsurance arrangement is purely a risk management tool one of several at our disposal.
Great thanks.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen today's conference call will be available for replay after 1:30 P.M.
today until midnight August 13.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system by dialing 800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 349036.
International participants may dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers once again 1-800-475-6701 or 320-365-3844 and enter the access code of 349036.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Teleconference.
At this time all lines are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given to you at that time.
And as a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Mark Finkelstein.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Cynthia.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Representing Prudential on today's call are John Strangfeld CEO; Mark Grier Vice Chairman; Charlie Lowrey Head of International Businesses; Steve Pelletier Head of Domestic Businesses; Rob Falzon Chief Financial Officer; and Rob Axel Controller and Principal Accounting Officer.
We will start with prepared comments by John Mark and Rob and then we will answer your questions.
Today's presentation may include forward-looking statements.
It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today.
In addition this presentation may include references to non-GAAP measures.
For a reconciliation of such measures to the comparable GAAP measures and a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements please see the section titled Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measure of our earnings press release which can be found on our website at www.investor.prudential.com.
John I'll hand it over to you.
Thank you Mark.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Prudential reported solid third quarter results and we are well on track to achieve the financial objectives we set out for the year.
Operating EPS excluding market driven and discrete items is $2.52 in line with what we reported last year which benefited from higher non-coupon investment income.
Our annualized ROE for the quarter on that same basis is just over 14% modestly above our long-term 13% to 14% objective.
Overall we benefited from good core growth in many of our businesses and strong underwriting margins across our domestic and international insurance operations.
This helped mitigate the impacts of weakening foreign currencies and some pressure on investment spreads.
Non-coupon investment income was modestly below our average expectations for the quarter and our U.S.
businesses also continue to see some impacts on core spreads from persistent low rates.
Mark and Rob will walk through the specifics of our key drivers results and capital position.
I'll provide some higher level observations on our businesses.
To start our international businesses had very strong sales results up 12% over the prior year on a constant currency basis.
And the growth was broad-based.
Our life planner business experienced double-digit sales growth including 12% in Japan.
And Gibraltar grew nicely in all three distribution channels.
And while it was a good quarter for sales we are particularly encouraged by the core growth drivers underlying our sales figures.
The life planner count grew 6% over the prior year in Japan and we exceeded 1 000 life planners in our Brazil operation in the quarter.
At Gibraltar we continue to see stabilization in our life planner count and life consultant count at higher productivity levels and have shown success expanding our bank channel footprint all while emphasizing the death protection products where we are best able to achieve our targeted margins.
We are also pleased with the results we saw in our U.S.
business.
Our retirement business provided positive net flows of about $2 billion in the quarter benefiting from a large-case sale in full service.
We did not execute any large pension transfer transaction in the quarter.
As we have mentioned in the past this is a business where transaction activity is inevitably lumpy.
As a case in point we look forward to completing two recently announced funded transactions in the fourth quarter JCPenney and Philips U.S.
The pension risk transfer business continues to produce favorable underwriting results and we see good opportunities for long-term growth as we have highlighted in the past.
Asset management also produced positive net flows at over $3 billion in the quarter.
Our investment performance remains strong and we continue to invest in capabilities people and distribution to take advantage of our opportunity to organically grow this business long term.
Sales in our annuity business are down year over year and sequentially reflecting mainly discipline around product features and pricing.
However we continue to show success with our diversification efforts which include the benefit from our reinsurance contract with Union Hamilton which transfers about half of our living benefit rider exposure on our HDI product sales.
Our U.S.
individual life and group insurance businesses both performed well in the quarter.
We produced strong sales growth in individual life insurance up 63% over the prior year benefiting from recent product and pricing actions and some larger policy sales in the quarter.
Earnings also benefited from another quarter of favorable mortality experience compared to our average expectations as we have experienced in 10 out of the last 12 quarters.
And in group insurance we remain pleased with the continued progress we are making in improving our disability underwriting margins as we had a solid performance in both group life and disability.
And finally our capital position remains strong and continues to support a healthy capital return to our shareholders.
This includes deployment of approximately $500 million this quarter through our dividend and share repurchase program.
Since the beginning of 2010 we have returned nearly $9 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks which is above and beyond the capital deployed to support organic growth and M&amp;A.
Looking forward we continue to feel very good about our prospects.
Now like others we are clearly impacted by headwinds such as persistent low interest rates and the potential for ongoing market volatility and we are also impacted over the near term by weakening foreign currencies though we have longer term mitigants.
And additionally we are investing in technology and growth opportunities that have a payback over a multi-year timeframe.
On the regulatory front we continue to play a highly active and constructive role working with domestic and international regulatory bodies including as it relates to capital frameworks.
And while the progress is ongoing we remain encouraged by the dialogue on several topics such as our interactions with the Federal Reserve on group supervision and the NAIC with respect to the early progress on the issue of variable annuity asset and liability statutory valuations.
Now back to the quarter for one final concluding comment before handing it over to Mark.
We saw this quarter in a period of significant market volatility the resilience of our businesses and earnings benefiting from successful execution and innovation over many years that have resulted in a differentiated franchise that produces strong ROEs and significant excess capital over time.
With that I will now hand it over to Mark.
Mark? Thank you John.
Good morning good afternoon or good evening.
I will take you through our results and then I will turn it over to Rob Falzon who will cover our capital and liquidity pictures.
On slide 2 I'll start with an overview of our financial results for the quarter.
On a reported basis common stock earnings per share amounted to $2.40 for the third quarter based on after-tax adjusted operating income.
This compares to EPS of $2.20 a year ago.
After adjusting for market-driven and discrete items in both the current quarter and the year-ago quarter EPS was essentially flat compared to a year ago as a few inherently variable items offset business growth and favorable underwriting results.
I'll mention a few highlights of our business performance that affected the comparison to a year ago.
First we continued to produce solid business growth in our international life planner business on a constant currency basis and in our U.S.
businesses including Individual Life where we have been growing profitable books of universal life and term insurance.
And second we produced solid underwriting results in our U.S.
and international insurance protection businesses including improved experience in group insurance compared to a year ago and favorable case experience in our pension risk transfer business.
These benefits were offset by three primary items.
One a lower contribution from net investment results with returns on non-coupon investments below our average expectations in the current quarter.
In contrast in the year-ago quarter the contribution was well above expectations.
Two higher net expenses in several businesses and three less favorable currency exchange rates in international insurance.
I would also note that both the current quarter and the year ago quarter benefited from true-ups of our effective tax rates to full year expectations.
For the current quarter the benefit to earnings per share is about $0.05.
On a GAAP basis including amounts categorized as realized investment gains or losses and results from divested businesses we reported net income of $1.5 billion for the current quarter.
This compares to $465 million a year ago which included a non-AOI charge related to our annual actuarial review which we completed last year in the third quarter as well as the negative impact from foreign currency exchange rate re-measurement which we have taken steps to mitigate.
Book value per share amounted to $73.19 at the end of the third quarter up $8.44 from yearend after the payment of three quarterly dividends totaling $1.74 per share.
This is excluding accumulated other comprehensive income or AOCI and after adjusting the numbers to remove the impact of foreign currency exchange rate re-measurement.
Annualized ROE for the first nine months of the year based on after-tax adjusted operating income excluding market-driven and discrete items and book value excluding AOI and the impact of foreign currency re-measurement was 15.2%.
This ROE reflects strong underlying business performance bolstered by a net benefit that we would estimate at about 80 basis points from net favorable variances in comparison to our average quarterly expectations that we've called out in a number of areas mainly during the first half of the year.
These primarily include mortality and pension risk transfer case experience the seasonal revenue pattern in our international insurance businesses and returns on non-coupon investments.
I'll discuss the impact of notable run rate items on the current quarter in reviewing our business results.
In thinking about our earnings pattern I would also note that historically in each of the past three years a number of our businesses have had higher than average expenses in the fourth quarter including the impact of seasonal items such as annual policyholder mailings.
Turning to slide 3 we have a short list of market-driven and discrete items included in our results for the current quarter with a net unfavorable impact of $0.12 per share.
In the annuities business charges mainly driven by adjustments in reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits and DAC to reflect market performance amounted to $0.15 per share.
And in retirement reserve refinements related to systems enhancements resulted in a net benefit of $0.03 per share.
During the year-ago quarter market-driven and discrete items produced a net charge of $0.34 per share.
This was mainly driven by our annual actuarial review which we moved up to the second quarter commencing this year.
Moving to slide 4 on a GAAP basis our net income of $1.5 billion in the current quarter includes amounts characterized as net realized investment gains of $438 million and divested business results and other items outside of adjusted operating income amounting to pre-tax income of $146 million comprised of the items you see on this slide.
Of the larger items mark-to-market on derivatives mainly related to management of asset and liability durations and currency exposures resulted in a $304 million pre-tax gain.
General portfolio and related activities mainly in our international operations resulted in net pre-tax gains of $295 million.
And impairments and credit losses amounted to $166 million in the quarter.
While impairments have increased in the current quarter from recent levels we haven't seen significant signs of credit deterioration in our investment portfolio.
The majority of the current quarter impairments relate to equity holdings and were taken based on length of time with unrealized losses.
The current quarter income from divested businesses of $116 million mainly represents results of the Closed Block.
Moving to our business results and starting on 5 I'll discuss the comparative results excluding the market-driven and discrete items that I have mentioned.
Slide 5 highlights individual annuities.
Annuities results were $414 million for the quarter up by $11 million from a year ago.
The earnings increase from a year ago came mainly from lower interest expense.
Most of our operating earnings in the annuities business come from base contract charges linked to daily account values.
Policy charges and fees are down about 2% from a year ago tracking the decline in average account values which was largely driven by the equity market downturn in the current quarter.
The decline in fees was largely offset by lower distribution costs and base amortization.
Slide 6 gives a view of our trend in earnings and return on assets in the annuity business.
Return on assets for the quarter was 105 basis points roughly in line with the first two quarters of this year.
The increase from 101 basis points in the year-ago quarter came mainly from lower interest expense and more favorable base amortization factors in the current quarter.
Return on assets can vary within a range depending on the quarterly pattern of expenses and other non-linear items.
Slide 7 presents our annuity sales.
Our gross variable annuity sales for the quarter were $2.1 billion compared to $2.6 billion in the year-ago quarter.
The decline in sales mainly reflects measures we have taken to improve the risk profile of our products and maintain appropriate returns.
During the current quarter we reinsured the living benefit rider risk on about $500 million of our $1.2 billion of total highest daily or HDI sales under the agreement we entered with Union Hamilton effective on April 1 of this year.
This agreement which provides for reinsurance of about 50% of our HDI 3.0 optional living benefit risk on most new business for 2015 and 2016 up to a maximum of $5 billion will effectively convert about half of our sales with the HDI rider to new business that looks like it doesn't have optional living benefit exposure.
Sales of just under $600 million of our Prudential defined income product which directs the clients' investment to a fixed income fund which we manage and sales of about $300 million of products without living benefit guarantees also contributed to our mix diversification.
Overall our efforts to diversify our variable annuity exposure are showing success as the majority of our current quarter sales didn't add to our net exposure to equity-market-linked HDI living benefit guarantees.
Slide 8 highlights the retirement business.
Earnings for the retirement business amounted to $222 million for the current quarter down $47 million from $269 million a year ago.
The decrease was driven by a $48 million lower contribution from net investment results.
Current quarter returns from non-coupon investments were about $10 million below our average expectations while the contribution to results for the year ago quarter was about $35 million above our average expectations.
Fixed income spread was essentially unchanged from a year ago as the benefit of growth in our funded pension risk transfer business was largely offset by lower earned rates in our full service portfolio.
Lower fees on full service business reflecting fee pressures over the past year and higher expenses in the first quarter essentially offset a greater contribution from pension risk transfer case experience driven by favorable underwriting results and by growth.
The current quarter contribution from case experience was about $10 million above our average expectations.
Turning to slide 9 total retirement gross deposits and sales were $11.5 billion for the current quarter compared to $36.2 billion a year ago which included $29 billion for two significant longevity reinsurance transactions.
Net flows for the current quarter were $2.4 billion.
Full service gross sales and deposits shown in the dark blue bars were $9.4 billion for the quarter up from $5.2 billion a year ago.
Current quarter sales included a major case win for $4.7 billion that we closed in July covering the state of Connecticut's employee retirement plan.
Standalone institutional gross sales were about $2 billion in the current quarter largely unchanged from a year ago excluding the longevity reinsurance transactions I mentioned earlier.
The contribution to sales from investment-only stable value wraps shown in the light blue bar was $1.2 billion in the current quarter more than double the year ago level with the increase mainly driven by participant add-ons in existing accounts.
As we have commented in the past sales of both full service and institutional retirement products can fluctuate meaningfully on a quarterly basis.
Total retirement account values amounted to $366 billion at the end of the quarter up by $10 billion or 3% from a year earlier reflecting net flows of about $9 billion over the past year with market performance essentially neutral.
Slide 10 highlights the asset management business.
The asset management business reported adjusted operating income of $180 million for the current quarter compared to $200 million a year ago.
While most of the segment's results come from asset management fees the decrease from a year ago was mainly driven by a $14 million lower contribution from incentive transaction strategic investing and commercial mortgage activities.
This contribution is inherently variable since it reflects changing valuations and the timing of transactions.
And it amounted to $22 million for the current quarter about $10 million below the average of the preceding eight quarters.
The benefit from continued growth of asset management fees was offset by higher expenses in the current quarter.
The higher level of expenses included start-up costs for new real estate funds greater mutual fund distribution costs reflecting sales mix and continued investment in our teams and infrastructure.
Asset management fees were $536 million for the current quarter up 5% from a year ago tracking a 5% increase in unaffiliated third party institutional and retail assets under management which totaled $465 billion at the end of the quarter.
Net inflows over the past quarter amounted to $17 billion including $3 billion in the current quarter which was driven by strong institutional fixed income flows.
Slide 11 highlights our U.S.
individual life business.
Individual life earnings were $183 million for the current quarter up $15 million from a year ago.
The increase in earnings was mainly driven by growth of our book of universal life and term insurance.
Over the past year annualized new business premiums for these products totaled about $460 million contributing to growth of our business in force and an increase of $23 million or 3% in individual life revenues from premiums policy charges and fee income after adjusting for the impact of our annual actuarial review a year ago.
Claims experience including mortality reserve updates and related amortization was favorable in both the current quarter and the year-ago quarter with the contribution of current quarter results about $25 million greater than our average expectations.
Slide 12 shows individual life sales based on annualized new business premiums which amounted to $158 million for the current quarter up $61 million from a year ago with increases in each of our major product groups.
The increase of $39 million in universal life sales was mainly driven by greater sales in selected age bands where we made pricing changes earlier this year to bring our rates more in line with the market.
Variable life sales in the green bars are up by $15 million from a year ago reflecting several large cases in the current quarter.
Slide 13 highlights the group insurance business.
Group insurance earnings amounted to $44 million in the current quarter up by $10 million from a year ago.
The increase came mainly from more favorable Group Life underwriting results.
An improvement in group disability insurance was largely offset by lower earned premiums on that business.
Slide 14 presents a timeline of our group insurance benefits ratios after adjustment for the impact of our actuarial reviews and other refinements.
In comparing our benefits ratios for the current and year-ago quarters to the historical results shown on the left side of the slide you can see the impact of actions we have taken in group disability to bring these ratios to an acceptable level while maintaining pricing discipline in group life.
Through the current quarter we have repriced or allowed to lapse over 80% of our group disability business that was on the books three years ago.
Generally implementing mid- to high-single-digit price increases and we have enhanced our claims management processes over that period.
The group life benefits ratio for the current quarter was near the favorable end of our expected range and improved about 1 percentage point from a year ago with a smaller average claim size and lower new claim count.
As I mentioned the current quarter group disabilities benefits ratio also improved from a year ago.
While the benefit of the actions we have taken has now been evident over several quarters we continue to expect that claims experience will fluctuate from one quarter to another.
Moving now to international insurance highlighted on slide 15 earnings for our life planner business was $398 million for the quarter essentially unchanged from a year ago.
Excluding a $14 million negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates which reflect our hedging of yen income at 91 in 2015 versus 82 a year earlier life planner earnings are up $15 million or 4%.
We have substantially completed the hedging of our expected yen earnings for 2016 and our hedging rate for next year is expected to be 106 yen per U.S.
dollar.
Current quarter Life Planner results benefited from continued business growth with insurance revenues including premiums policy charges and fees growing by 11% from a year ago on a constant dollar basis.
The benefit to results from continued business growth was partially offset by higher expenses including costs to enhance our agency distribution infrastructure in Japan and costs for technology as part of an ongoing process.
Mortality experience was favorable in relation to our average expectations in both the current quarter and the year-ago quarter.
Slide 16 highlights Gibraltar Life and other operations.
Earnings for Gibraltar Life were $414 million for the current quarter compared to $446 million a year ago.
Excluding a negative impact of $19 million on the comparison from foreign currency exchange rates results were down by $13 million from a year ago.
This decrease was driven by a lower net contribution (27:19 – 27:22) benefit to current quarter results from non-coupon investments and mortgage prepayment income was roughly in line with our average expectations but below the level of a year ago.
The lower contribution from these variable items was partly offset by higher fixed income returns reflecting changes in portfolio mix.
Turning to slide 17 international insurance sales on a constant-dollar basis were $798 million for the current quarter up by $88 million or 12% from a year ago.
Each of our distribution channels life planners Gibraltar life consultants banks and independent agencies contributed to the increase and we benefited from sales growth in Japan as well as other key markets.
Sales by our life planners in Japan shown in the dark blue bars were $199 million in the current quarter up $21 million or 12% from a year ago.
The increase reflected a 6% greater life planner count partly driven by an increase in our number of sales managers.
At a product level the increase came mainly from greater sales of term insurance and to a lesser extent whole life which included a modest amount of accelerated purchases in anticipation of an announced price increase for single premium products.
Life planner sales outside of Japan were up by $15 million from a year ago mainly driven by an increase in Brazil where we have also grown life planner count meaningfully and we surpassed the milestone of 1 000 agents in Brazil in the third quarter.
Gibraltar's life consultant sales shown in the light blue bars amounted to $199 million in the current quarter up by $13 million or 7% from a year ago reflecting higher agent productivity as measured by number of policies sold per agent per month.
At the product level the increase was mainly driven by greater sales of whole life products.
Sales through the bank channel shown in the gray bars amounted to $208 million for the current quarter up by $35 million or 20% from a year ago.
The increase was mainly driven by greater sales of recurring premium death protection products most significantly 10-pay [29:48] and longer reflecting broadening distribution among our Japanese bank relationships and the attractiveness of these products in the estate planning or inheritance market.
Sales through independent agents shown in the green bars amounted to $72 million in the current quarter.
The $4 million increase from a year ago was driven by greater term insurance sales.
Slide 18 shows the results of corporate and other operations.
Corporate and other operations reported a loss of $308 million for the current quarter compared to a $320 million loss a year ago.
The corporate and other loss includes a number of items that are inherently variable and the reduction in loss compared to a year ago reflects some favorability in the current quarter.
For example we benefited about $20 million from a reinsurance settlement in the current quarter.
Now I'll turn it over to Rob.
Thank you Mark.
I'm going to give you an update on some key items under the heading of financial strength and flexibility.
Starting on slide 19.
We continue to manage our insurance companies to levels of capital that we believe are consistent with AA standards.
For Prudential Insurance we manage to a 400% RBC ratio.
At the end of last year Prudential Insurance reported an RBC ratio of 498% with total adjusted capital or TAC of $15 billion.
While we don't perform a quarterly bottoms-up RBC calculation we estimate that our September 30 RBC ratio remains well above our 400% target after giving effect to the results for the first nine months of the year including a $2 billion dividend to the parent company in May following the completion of our closed block restructuring.
In Japan Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar Life reported strong solvency margins of 853% and 927% respectively as of June 30.
We're managing these companies to solvency margins of 600% to 700% which we believe is consistent with AA balance sheet strength and we are comfortably above our targets.
Looking at our overall capital position on slide 20 we calculate our on-balance sheet capital capacity by comparing the statutory capital position of Prudential Insurance to our 400% RBC ratio target and then add capital capacity held in Japan and other operations and at the parent company.
As of the end of last year we estimated our available on-balance sheet capital capacity at approximately $2 billion on a net basis.
This represented about $4 billion on a gross basis less $2 billion earmarked to reduce capital debt to arrive at our long-term targeted financial leverage ratio of 25%.
During the first nine months of this year we returned about $1.5 billion to shareholders.
These returns included three quarterly common stock dividends totaling about $800 million and the repurchase of $750 million of our common stock.
Our financial leverage ratio which is based on capital debt decreased from 29.3% at yearend to 25.5% at the end of the third quarter.
The reduction of financial leverage reflected our receipt of the $2 billion dividend from Prudential Insurance that I mentioned together with capital generated from other sources which reduced the need to support capital requirements in our businesses with debt.
At the end of the third quarter we've made a minor adjustment to earmark a portion of our capital capacity for a reduction of capital debt to arrive at our target level of 25%.
After giving effect to that adjustment our capital capacity stood at over $3 billion.
This compares to about $2 billion at yearend and is consistent with the greater than $3 billion that we disclosed at June 30.
Our financial leverage ratio increased from 23.9% at June 30 to 25.5% at September 30.
This reflects an increase in our level of capital debt of about $600 million as the fallen interest rates and just over $200 million in net hedging costs reflecting market volatility resulted in a funding need at our variable annuity captive reinsurer.
Our total leverage ratio which includes all borrowings also came down from 45.1% at year end to 42.8% at September 30 below our targeted level of 45% as we applied cash held at the parent company to repay external debt maturing during the third quarter.
The fair value of the Japan equity hedge which is not included in our capital capacity was about $2 billion at September 30.
Turning to the cash position at the parent company cash and short-term investments net of outstanding commercial paper amounted to about $4.2 billion as of September 30.
The cash in excess of our targeted $1.3 billion liquidity cushion is available to repay maturing operating debt to fund operating needs and to deploy over time for strategic and capital management purposes.
Now I'll turn it back over to John.
Thank you Rob.
So let's open it up for Q&amp;A.
Certainly.
Our first question will come from the line of Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi first a question for Rob on capital.
Could you discuss the impact that the drop in interest rates had on your capital position? And then you've talked about – talked in the past about reducing your sensitivity – the sensitivity of capital to interest rates.
Maybe go into a little bit of detail on what are some of the things you are doing to do that? Okay Jimmy so referring back to the – to my introductory remarks if you think about the capital debt going up by around $600 million that had two principal components to it.
First was the breakage on our hedging within the VA captive.
And the second piece of that was largely driven by the interest rate movements during the course of the quarter.
If you looked at our capital capacity at the end of the quarter and you did not adjust for it – you didn't increase our leverage ratio – we would still have had capital capacity above the $3 billion consistent with the – with what I articulated.
So interest rates clearly had an impact during the course of the quarter but we would characterize it as relatively modest in terms of the overall impact on our capital capacity.
I think as we've talked about before with regard to the sensitivity to interest rates we think about management of our capital as a – sorry we think of management of interest rate risk in what you would consider to be normal levels of volatility as something that we would hold capital against.
So you would see some movement in our capital capacity as a result of normal volatility quarter to quarter in interest rates.
However what we do is outside of that range of normal volatility we look to hedge out the risk and think of it as in the tails at (37:29) outcomes for interest rates such that our capital capacity would be preserved in more extreme outcomes And on the $600 million that you mentioned I think the VA hedge breakage was around $200 million which would imply that the rate impact was less than $0.5 billion in that neighborhood right? I'm not sure I'm following your numbers Jimmy.
When you say the VA hedge breakage you're talking about the hedge target breakage? Yeah yeah.
Yeah so – well that was in the – from the $600 million that hedge breakage was the $200ish million that I deducted from that $600 million.
So the residual $400 million would have been net everything else interest rates included in there.
Okay.
And then just one last question on pension closeout deals your experience on the deals has been better than what you have I guess priced for and – but there has been a lot of talk about pricing and margins on deals that are being done in Europe and the press and the sort of – some of the articles implied that pricing has gotten aggressive.
What's your view on the return potential of the business that you've done in Europe versus what you're doing in the US? Jimmy this is Steve.
I'll speak to that.
We remain very confident about our pricing of these transactions both in terms of what we've already written and also the experience we are having as we pursue additional transactions.
In regard to some of the recent press commentary I'd give our perspective as follows.
We participate as a reinsurer working with primary UK insurers in the longevity business.
We see that global market structure as having a couple of key benefits.
We think that that market structure provides additional capacity to UK plan sponsors looking to manage longevity risk and we also think that global structure provides additional protection to UK plan participants in terms of the pension promises that have been made to them.
So we view this market structure as having a lot of benefits for all parties involved.
In terms of the business that we write and how we price it we apply a very robust economic capital framework that drives our pricing and supports the business with prudent capital standards.
We put this framework through significant and continuous stress testing and it's the same model we use for domestic deals.
And then finally I'd just mention something that you've heard from us before just a reminder that our PRT pricing both funded and unfunded does not take into account any enterprise-level benefits around risk diversification or longevity mortality netting.
So like I say we remain quite confident in our pricing.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
My first question was on pension risk transfer.
What are the deposit amounts we should expect for Prudential from JCPenney and Philips U.S.
in 4Q? Jay this is Steve again.
I'll cover that.
The deposit amounts that will emerge from JCPenney have yet to be determined.
That deal is operating on a variable structure.
We expect it will be between $0.5 billion and $1.5 billion.
Regarding Philips U.S.
the total transaction is $1.1 billion.
Our share of that will be $450 million.
I will also point out that on Philips U.S.
we are the account administrator for all retirees and will be receiving additional consideration for providing that service on the entire retiree block.
Inc.</span></strong> That's $450 million not euros right? Oh yes correct.
This is the Philips U.S.
business.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Can you talk about the pipeline for pension risk transfer looking out? We feel the pipeline remains and is quite solid.
I think what we've been seeing over the past year and continue to see Jay is that the pipeline is really being driven by secular trends.
We are looking at for example the updated mortality tables are really having an impact in terms of accentuating awareness of longevity risk and desire to manage it.
Also continuous increasing of PBGC premiums also has an effect.
So all of these factors contribute to what we see as a very healthy pipeline going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> It's been several years since we've seen a significant jumbo deal come to market for Prudential.
Is the pipeline strong for those types of deals as well? Those obviously are – while PRT inherently is lumpy those real jumbo deals are even lumpier.
So discussions continue but we'll see what unfolds.
In regard to several years Jay I would just point out that on the longevity side at least we did have a deal that is jumbo by any standard in mid-2014.
Inc.</span></strong> Of course.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thanks.
First on variable annuities I would be interested in your views as to how the recent NAIC proposals as it relates to captors may impact you.
And then second in your comments you made the comment that expenses tend to be seasonally higher in the fourth quarter.
Any reason to believe the impact this year will be any different and is it possible to quantify that seasonal impact? Thanks.
It's Rob Nigel.
Let me handle the first question.
The – with respect to the variable annuities work first let me step back and go through with you some of the things that we said at Investor Day.
We went through the reasons during the course of our presentation as to why we reinsured our VA rider to a captive.
Those reasons related to the disconnect between stat accounting and the risk management tools that we use in order – or to manage the rider.
Also recall that we hold capital to CTE 97 and that we have reserves in our captives that are almost two times the reserves that would be required – that we would otherwise be required to hold at the seeding company.
We're constantly evaluating that construct making sure that we're managing risk on an economic basis and in addition to that we're looking at the implications of that on capital and liquidity on accounting both from a statutory and a GAAP standpoint and also on hedging efficiency.
So consistent with that objective we've been as you can imagine highly engaged in the conversation with the NAIC with Oliver Wyman and with others in the industry.
And what I would say is that – what we would say is that all of the right issues are on the table and are being discussed.
We're encouraged by the dialogue.
It could produce both a good outcome for companies and regulators but I would also say that these are still early days in what is likely to be a fairly long process And Nigel I'll take your question regarding seasonality of expenses.
The annuities business is definitely one of those businesses that Mark mentioned where we see quarterly seasonality.
And while I'm not going to offer a quantification of what we'll see in the fourth quarter if you take a look at last year's fourth quarter you saw that impact and I see no reason to believe that we won't be seeing that same seasonality in this year's 4Q.
And Nigel on the international side I would say the same thing.
Obviously expenses vary quarter to quarter depending upon a variety of factors one of which is of course seasonality.
And we see that in international in the fourth quarter every year because in the fourth quarter you have additional administrative costs including annual mailings to customers.
And that doesn't sound like a lot except in Japan for instance we have 10 million policies and over 3 million mailings that we do.
In addition there are in international discretionary costs that we incur later in the year depending upon budgets and often systems initiatives are concentrated to finish by the end of the year.
So there's additional spending in the fourth quarter and we'd expect that pattern to continue this year.
So – it's Rob and let me pull those two pieces together.
If you looked at our historical pattern of sort of fourth quarter total overhead expenses as contrasted to the prior three quarters what you would find is that somewhere between 5% and 10% is sort of the level of increase that you will find in the fourth quarter vis-à-vis the prior three and that would amount to something that's averaged historically between $150 million and $200 million of increased costs in the fourth quarter vis-à-vis the average for the nine months that would have preceded that Nigel.
Okay.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Seth Weiss with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you.
If I could just tag along the question of seasonality.
Thinking about the asset management and seasonality that tends to benefit fees in the fourth quarter how should we think about that in the upcoming quarter given more volatile equity markets over the course of this year? Seth this is Steve.
While again I wouldn't offer any kind of quantification we do see incentive fees for example being something that is – where there is a seasonal lift in the fourth quarter.
Again that pattern may very well persist.
There could be some impact from market volatility but the nature of that business is such that a fair amount of those fees are realized in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
So some of those fees are independent of what happens with market performance or is it purely market performance-based if we think about how that will eventually come in? Some will be impacted either directly or indirectly by market volatility some are largely uncorrelated with equity market volatility at least.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from the line of Eric Bass with Citigroup your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi thank you.
For individual life you've consistently had mortality that's been favorable to your expectations the past couple of years which is in contrast to what we've seen for much of the industry.
Can you give any color on where you've seen positive trends? And I think Pru historically was less active in the older age markets.
So do you think this could be a factor? Erik this is Steve.
I think that we are seeing our positive mortality trends in – pretty much across our book of business both in terms of legacy Prudential and legacy Hartford business and in different age bands.
So it's been a fairly comprehensive experience and it's also been contributed to both in terms of severity and incidents.
So I wouldn't attribute it to any particular pockets.
I would just also point out that we do continuously adjust our expectations.
So the variances that we are speaking about above our expectations are variations above a bar that we do continue to raise on a very gradual basis.
So we are pleased with the performance of the book and having said that inherently this can be something that is variable.
And we don't take that into our run rate and we do regularly call it out for your modeling purposes.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you for the color.
And then just quickly on Habitat.
Do you have any update on that transaction and potential timing for closing? Yeah the acquisition is pending with regulators.
And we and our prospective partners continue to work through the process with regulators and look forward to closing the transaction obviously as quickly as possible which we estimate to be either later this year or in the first quarter of next year.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning.
A question about Japan.
I guess at some point in mid-September there were some news about the standard mortality table in Japan changing and what that could have – that that could have a negative impact excuse me on some of the mortality margins that are built into the life insurance products in that country.
Can you Charlie give us your thoughts on that? Yeah.
I think we look at underwriting very carefully as we do pricing and we take all of that into account as obviously as best we can and put that into what we think of as a differentiated distribution model and work with our clients in order to come up with the best products that we can on their behalf.
So if I can let me take a little bit of a step back and tell you about the process and hopefully that gets a little bit to your question.
We think we have very much of a differentiated distribution model as well as – and this gets a little bit to what you are talking about as well product selection and product mix.
And we apply disciplined execution to that.
So let me go through each of these just a little bit and hopefully help answer your question.
But we operate a proprietary distribution or tied agency system based on the quality of both of the life planners and the life plan consultants.
This has been the base of our business since it was formed and for over a quarter of a century we have been doing business in this way providing the highest quality service to our customers over the lifetime over their lifetime.
And this isn't an inexpensive model to operate.
We take two or three out of every 100 people we interview to become life planners and they can't have been in the life insurance business before.
So we spend a great deal of time effort and money training them.
And hence we have the extraordinary retention persistency and productivity metrics that we enjoy.
And if you look at POJ or Gibraltar's retention ratios of 88% or POG's – POJ's persistency level of 95% or Gib's of 93% you really see the kind of business we write.
And that represents a majority of our business because you can't take an existing agency system and retrain people.
It just doesn't work.
So this is one of the fundamental differences between us and others many of whom either have tens of thousands of part-time agents or who rely completely on third parties for distribution.
And to the extent that we do use third parties which we do with our bank and IA partners we also have a differentiated strategy as well in that we second life planners into banks to provide exceptional service and expertise into selling of death protection products into the banks.
And we do the same with a select number of IAs who appreciate and want the level of service that we provide.
So our model really is based on service which we believe provides us with a differentiated and sustainable strategy.
So that's the first point.
The second point gets to your question a little more which is the product selection and product mix because with this kind of distribution and the quality of distribution we are able to sell products that aren't easy to sell.
Right? And this is the second point of distinction.
We sell life insurance or death protection which is the hardest product to sell and we have been doing it for our entire existence and that is the basis of the model of this business because we don't let LPs or LCs sell savings products or A&amp;H products when they first come in.
Why? Because the demand for these – because these are demand products that are easy to sell and we want them to be able to sell death protection which remains at the core of our business in terms of how we underwrite who we underwrite and the pricing of those products.
Yeah we sell A&amp;H and some savings products as well but we mostly sell death protection and require our field force to do so.
You've seen that in every channel especially this quarter.
And we price all products appropriately to make sure we get our required level of profitability which is where the discipline comes in.
Because we can do that because of the level of the service that we provide to our customers and our distribution partners.
And that finally gets to the execution which again I think deals a little bit with your questions.
We can have this great strategy but it's all about execution and we think that we continue to execute.
When we first started the Life Planner model 25 years ago we hired two out of every 100 applicants to become life planners.
Today we still hire two out of every 100 applicants.
In fact in Brazil where we are seeing significant growth the number is slightly less than two.
However the execution of the business doesn't just relate to people but it relates to products as well.
And we have a long history of rigorous pricing and underwriting and canceling products if we can't reach the targeted level of profitability.
So we either reduce commissions or increase pricing or in fact discontinue sales of certain products that are more interest-rate sensitive if they can't meet our profit expectations.
As an example both POJ and Gibraltar reduced crediting rates on the un-denominated single-premium whole life from 1% to 75 basis points in the beginning of July or Gibraltar discontinued its single premium endowment product at the same time.
So when you think about the mortality tables when you think about the way in which we approach this business we approach it from the perspective of focusing very strongly on death protection very high quality service and an extraordinarily good underwriting process that takes those variables into account.
So I just wanted to go through and give you a little bit of that background because hopefully that helps address the question from both a little bit of a granular perspective but more importantly from taking a step back and telling you really how we think about the business and the history of the business over time and in fact the way we're going to run the business going forward.
Okay.
So just to paraphrase I guess you are saying that your model is adaptable if we get some new mortality tables or frankly anything that comes down the pike that you will make the necessary adjustments to maintain your profitability target? Oh you bet.
We absolutely do that.
I mean we reprice our fixed annuities every other week.
And you've seen us I think make the changes necessary in terms of either lowering commissions or increasing products either increasing pricing or in fact just discontinuing sales if we can't make it work.
So we're going to protect our margins and you can see that in the ROEs we generate over time and the low level of volatility that this business is – has displayed for well over a decade.
Got it.
And then just the last one for I guess either Mark or Rob.
So I'm looking at this page 11 in your supplement and you have this roughly $8 billion of operating debt which I think you kind of reclassify as needed based on your capital requirements changing.
Is there a limitation in terms of how much of this $8 billion number could get reclassified as operating debt? Because it's tied to some assets or something like that; it's already being – it's already funding some asset? I think you mean get reclassified from operating to capital debt? Is that what you're asking Suneet? Yeah.
I might have said it the other way around but I think you get my drift.
Yeah so it's currently classified as operating.
Yeah the amount of that of borrowings that we have that is – that's backing – operating debt that's backing cash is close to $2.5 billion so that amount could be sitting in cash and could be used for capital purposes should we need it.
Okay.
But anything above that that's sitting in this operating debt is already funding something and so it could not be reclassified? Yeah.
And most of that is for purposes of our captive financing AXXX financing in our life captives.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Krueger with KBW.
Your line is open.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Hi thanks.
Good morning.
The life planner count in Japan has been picking up a lot this year.
Can you give us some underlying color on the dynamics there? Sure I'm happy to.
It's up 6%.
This is a new record in Japan and it really pertains to a couple of things.
On the face of it it's a higher number of sales managers.
But let me just go through the three ins and outs because I think this will give some clarification.
First of all the three ins and outs that can take place the first ones are recruits versus terminations.
And we had a stronger – we had strong recruits and lower terminations this quarter.
So that was a good factor.
Secondly is the process of turning life planners into sales managers.
And over the past two years we have added 54 new sales managers.
Now initially when you do that as you saw last year in the spring that lowers the LP count.
But then theoretically adds to the LP count later because a sales manager's job is obviously to recruit develop and retain LPs.
And the new sales managers tend to recruit more than existing sales managers who already manage a group of LPs.
So we expected the increase in sales managers to help LP recruiting in the future.
And that's exactly what happened.
We said – there's always a lag effect right? So it usually takes about a year for the new sales managers to begin to really recruit and gear up.
And when we recruited a large number of sales managers or changed them from life planners to sales managers last year we expected that to have an effect this year and it really has.
The third in and out is taking LPs and seconding them into the bank.
So what we do is we take the lower performing LPs and give them the opportunity to become secondees in the bank channel.
Because we train the LPs to perform three tasks – to prospect to present and to close.
And if an LP fails it's usually because he or she can't prospect.
But in the banks the beautiful part of it is they don't need to prospect.
So as secondees they can perform very well and advocate selling recurring premium death protection products which is exactly what they are doing and you see the increased sales in banks because of it.
So having said all of this let me sort of talk about growth rates.
Because the growth rate for LPs in Japan over the long term is unlikely to materially accelerate given the large number of LPs we have in Japan.
So if you consolidate all the ins and outs the long term average growth of POJ for LPs is about 2% or 3%.
Last year we had a couple of quarters of either zero or maybe a little negative.
This quarter was 6%.
So you will see some fluctuation over time but if you looked at a long-term average it's probably 2% or 3%.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thanks.
And then just last year on the outlook call you talked about investing in technology systems and infrastructure.
Can you just give an update in terms of how far along you are on that and if you'd expect similar costs related to those initiatives next year? So is that – are you referring to international or are you referring to...
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Oh no that was an overall company question.
Okay.
Yeah so Ryan it's Rob.
Perhaps I'll take that.
I would say the spending is consistent with what we've – the guidance that we provided last year.
The net spending may be from a pace – surely from a pace standpoint a little under the guidance that we otherwise provided but we think the numbers that we provided last year are still sort of relevant and there may be slippage between any given year but that level of investment has not expanded.
It has gotten drawn out a little bit but by and large is in place or intact and we would expect to continue to make that order of magnitude of investments into the businesses.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Cynthia I think we will take one more question please.
And that will be from the line of Tom Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
The question I had is on – if I look at the yen hedge guidance you just gave us for 2016 106 that's about a 15% 16% depreciation versus prior year so a fairly sizable headwind.
And if I recall correctly the discussion about the yen capital hedge which currently I think you said is a $2 billion gain was put in place to preserve some of that earnings power that you may otherwise lose.
So can we assume that you're going to look to monetize and utilize some of that $2 billion to offset some of this headwind or is that just a much longer term structure that we should be thinking about and not something that's going to offset the 2016 impact? So Tom it's Rob.
Let me take two pieces of that.
First with regard to earnings impact remember when you take those percentages that you have to apply that just to the yen component of our earnings.
And so just by way of example if it's kind of helpful to (64:11) that if we applied the 106 to this year – this quarter's results it would have resulted in about a 2% dilution or about $0.06 a share.
So just to kind of give you a benchmark for the impact of that change in the plan rate.
The second question with regard to the yen equity hedge what you stated is absolutely correct.
That hedge is both designed and calibrated so that over time the gains from the hedge can be used to offset any dilution in earnings that are resulting from depreciation in the yen.
And with respect to sort of how and when that may be done I would simply observe that we understand the mechanic that we put in place and to how the mechanic needs to work in order to be effectuated.
Got you.
Okay.
So – and just a follow-up on that is that – so in what way should we be thinking about the monetization of that and a potential offset to the earnings drag? Could it span the gamut of extra buybacks M&amp;A like how should we be thinking about that? So the way that it's calibrated is such that it generates cash capital that can be redeployed either in buybacks or in acquisitions acquisitions would be at our target return of 13% to 14% yielding those kind of returns such that if we did either the buybacks or we did the acquisitions with that capital we would restore the earnings that were lost as a result of the depreciation in the yen over sort of a period-to-period basis Okay.
And then my last question is Rob just going back to the comments you made about the NAIC proposal on VA captives is it – could it be something as positive for you as releasing that I think it was a $4 billion reserve redundancy that you guys had been maintaining in the captive.
I mean is there a – and maybe that's the Super Bowl case in terms of what the outcome here might be for you.
But is there any way to – and I realize there's probably more work to be done here but I believe what you said previously is you guys hold $8 billion of reserves and on an economic basis you probably only need half of that.
But so anyway any help you can give on that would be appreciated.
Yeah Tom so a couple of things.
First let me clarify.
What we stated is that the amount of reserves we're holding are a little less than two times that which would be required at the seeding company.
We didn't put that in terms of the economic capital in reserves that we would be holding but rather that which is required from a statutory standpoint.
I would say as I mentioned when I responded to the earlier question we're very encouraged by the dialogue and think that it could have a good outcome.
But having said that I also mentioned it's a long process and therefore I think it's inappropriate to speculate on the outcome of the discussion at this point or how it may influence our plans.
I would say that based on the level of capital in reserves that we hold we believe that we have adequate capacity to accommodate a range of outcomes that could be coming out of the NAIC process.
But regardless of what comes out of that process we're going to continue a very disciplined approach around the managing our VA risks and holding a prudent level of capital and reserves against those risks.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen today's teleconference will be available for replay after 1:30 p.m.
today until midnight November 12.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 349037.
International participants may dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers once again 1-800-475-6701 or 320-365-3844 and enter the access code of 349037.
That does conclude your teleconference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Prudential Quarterly Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mark Finkelstein.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Roxanne.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Representing Prudential on today’s call are John Strangfeld CEO; Mark Grier Vice Chairman; Charlie Lowrey Head of International Businesses; Steve Pelletier Head of Domestic Businesses; Rob Falzon Chief Financial Officer; and Rob Axel Controller and Principal Accounting Officer.
We will start with prepared comments by John Mark and Rob; and then we will answer your questions.
Today’s presentation may include forward-looking statements.
It is possible that actual results may differ materially from the predictions we make today.
In addition this presentation may include references to non-GAAP measures.
For a reconciliation of such measures to the comparable GAAP measures and a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements please see the section titled Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measure of our earnings press release which can be found on our website at www.investor.prudential.com.
John I’ll hand it over to you.
Thank you Mark.
And good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
2015 was a good year for Prudential.
Our ROE exceeded 14%.
And in a challenging year we met our financial objectives.
Business fundamentals remain strong with both our strategic positioning and execution supporting superior performance.
Fourth quarter earnings of $2.07 per share based on adjusted operating income excluding market-driven and discrete items was adversely affected by higher expenses which we had previewed on the third quarter call and lower non-coupon investment income returns.
As many of you know who follow Prudential are aware our recent results have tended to be stronger in the first-half of the year and weaker in the fourth quarter.
For the full-year earnings per share on the same basis of $9.86 was at the midpoint of the guidance we set out in our financial outlook call in December of 2014 achieved despite less favorable market conditions than were assumed in the guidance.
This translates to an ROE for 2015 of 14.2% which was modestly exceeded the high-end of our long-term ROE objective of 13% to 14%.
Book value per share excluding AOCI and foreign currency remeasurement grew nearly 14% compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
This strength reflects more consistently between our operating income and net income one of our key priorities.
Mark and Rob will walk through the specifics of our results as well as our capital position in more detail.
I will touch on a few highlights.
To start our international businesses had a solid year.
In the fundamentals and earnings power these businesses are strong.
On a constant currency basis year-over-year earnings excluding market-driven and discrete items grew modestly and constant dollar sales grew 8% at both our Life Planner and Gibraltar businesses.
Additionally we are seeing positive trends in our distribution network.
While the interest rate actions taken by the Bank of Japan are clearly a headwind and we will react appropriately as we’ve done in Japan over many years our Japanese businesses have historically generated ROEs in the 20% range.
And we expect them to continue to generate superior returns.
Earnings for our U.S.
businesses excluding market-driven and discrete items were down from 2014 though this was due to more than $300 million swing in non-coupon investment income from the favorable results of the prior year.
But underneath the headline numbers we are seeing solid fundamental growth drivers in several businesses.
Asset Management generated unaffiliated third party net flows of $22 billion for the year representing its 13th consecutive year of positive institutional flows.
And individual life insurance sales grew 31% across products while meeting our targeted product mix.
Our Retirement business continues to show leadership in the pension risk transfer market with participation in all of the larger funded transactions completed in 2015.
And Full-Service Retirement had solid net flows for the year with a meaningful large case win in the third quarter.
And although the annuity business reported lower sales in 2015 we remain disciplined in our pricing and are achieving our diversification priorities.
We have also seen good underwriting margins across our domestic businesses most notably our Retirement business had $80 million of positive case experience in pension risk transfer for the year.
And our Group Insurance business produced solid underwriting results particularly in disability which is benefited from its multiyear repricing efforts.
As we turn to 2016 the outlook is clearly more challenging as we highlighted on our financial outlook call.
Market headwinds have only intensified in early 2016.
While these pressures are meaningful we benefit from our unique mix of businesses that produce top-tier returns and diverse source of earnings and cash flow as well as our very strong capital position.
Our business mix combined with the strong execution and an opportunistic approach to markets has enabled us to grow adjusted operating earnings per share at a pace well above industry averages about 12% annually over the last five years.
This has contributed to our ability to deploy increasing amounts of capital to shareholders through dividends and buybacks amounting to about $9 billion since the beginning of 2011 or roughly a quarter of our current book value.
Recall that we raised our dividend 21% in December and the board increased our share repurchase authorization to $1.5 billion for 2016 which reflects an increasing level of capital generation in our businesses.
Additionally one of our key strategic priorities as a company is to reduce the complexity and volatility in our business and increase transparency issues that have distracted from our strong fundamental picture.
At our financial outlook call we announced the planned recapture of our living benefit riders from our variable annuity captive in order to house all of the product risk together in our statutory entities.
We expect this important step to further simplify our operations and reduce a significant source of volatility.
We will provide more details through 2016 as the transaction is finalized but I’d like to provide an update on our recapture and also provide perspective on our annuities business in the context of a broader retirement strategy.
We managed the annuity business conservatively and we hold strong reserves and capital to support the economic product risks a practice that we will continue subsequent to the recapture.
And we priced this into the product.
Even with the decline in interest rates in equity markets in early 2016 we expect the planned recapture to increase and not detract from our capital flexibility.
And we expect it to reduce the overall volatility in our capital capacity.
We generate good risk adjusted returns on variable annuities particularly as competitors have exited the market and the risk profile of the product has improved.
We are targeting and achieving mid-teen returns.
And expect the business to generate deployable capital consistent with the 60% of our earnings we target for Prudential overall.
So as we sit today we view variable annuities of the core product with solid return and cash flow prospects.
And it’s well managed in the context of a global platform of businesses that produce a diverse set of risks and sources of cash flow.
We also view the annuity business as part of a broader retirement theme which is a compelling long-term growth opportunity and one where we have invested heavily to build differentiated capabilities.
We serve retail and institutional clients in multiple capacities including through our defined contribution stable value pension risk transfer and annuity platforms.
And we bring exceptional execution skills and asset management capabilities.
We believe the growth and margin opportunity through this longer-term theme puts us in a position to deliver significant value to our shareholders.
Now let me touch briefly on the regulatory environment before handing it over to Mark.
We continue to participate with the Federal Reserve and the IAIS as they develop capital standards applicable to insurance entities.
While we do not know what these standards will ultimately be we continue to manage our business to very strong capital levels.
And this gives us confidence that we are well-positioned to meet any reasonable standards without competitive disadvantages to our products.
It’s also unclear what the Department of Labor will issue as the final fiduciary standards.
And we have participated actively with the industry groups in sharing our views of the unintended consequences of the draft regulations.
But we also believe that our business mix and global platform puts us in a less exposed position than many of our peers.
Thus as we think about 2016 and beyond the combination of our differentiated business mix and strong capital position provides us confidence in our ability to produce solid results even as market conditions remain volatile.
And also to take advantage of opportunities that will likely emerge.
With that I’d like to hand it over to Mark.
Excuse me.
Thank you John.
Good morning good afternoon or good evening.
Thank you for joining our year-end earnings call.
I’ll take you through our results and then I’ll turn it over to Rob Falzon who will cover our capital and liquidity picture.
And I’ll start on Slide 2.
After-tax adjusted operating income amounted to a $1.94 per share for the quarter compared to $2.12 a year ago.
After adjusting for market-driven and discrete items EPS was down $0.26 from a year ago.
While underlying performance across our businesses was solid the decrease reflected a lower contribution from non-coupon investments and higher expenses in the current quarter.
Non-coupon investment returns and prepayment income were about $40 million below our average expectations in the quarter in contrast to a year ago when the contribution was about $90 million above expectations.
And the higher expense level included nonlinear items such as business development costs benefit plan true-ups and technology expenses.
We estimate that these two items together with less favorable currency exchange rates had a negative impact of roughly $0.40 per share on the comparison of results to a year ago.
In thinking about our quarterly earnings pattern I would also note that we estimate current quarter expenses for items such as technology and business development annual policyholder communications and onboarding and advertising and other variable costs were about $175 million above our quarterly average for the year; consistent with the historical pattern we mentioned when we discussed our third quarter results.
Considering the higher expenses in the quarter relative to the full-year average and other variances from average expectations including non-coupon returns the impact on earnings this quarter would be roughly $0.25 to $0.30 per share.
On a GAAP basis including amounts categorized as realized investment gains or losses and results from divested businesses we reported net income of $735 million for the current quarter.
This compares to $1.2 billion net loss a year ago which included a substantial negative impact from foreign currency exchange rate remeasurement which we have taken steps to mitigate.
Slide 3 shows financial highlights for the year.
Earnings per share for the year amounted to $9.86 after adjusting for market driven and discrete items which implies an ROE of 14.2%.
The full-year EPS comparison reflects lower non-coupon investment returns and less favorable currency exchange rates.
Together these items had a negative impact of roughly $0.75 per share on the comparison of results.
Turning to Slide 4 for the current quarter market-driven and discrete items resulted in a net charge of $0.13 per share.
These items included estimated remediation costs in Corporate and Other related to administration of separate accounts also included a reserve true-up in Individual Life related to conversion of a valuation system and also included our quarterly market and experience unlocking in the annuities business.
Moving to Slide 5 our GAAP net income of $735 million in the current quarter includes amounts characterized as net realized investment losses of $196 million and divested business results and other items outside of adjusted operating income amounting to pre-tax losses of $141 million.
Of note the gain from general portfolio activities came mainly from rebalancing activities in our Japanese general account.
We haven’t seen signs of significant credit deterioration in our investment portfolio.
The majority of the current quarter impairments relate to equity holdings and were taken based on the length of time with unrealized losses.
Energy sector related realized losses were roughly $30 million in the quarter.
Product related embedded derivatives and hedging had a negative impact of $534 million largely due to the impact of applying credit spreads to our gross GAAP liability balance for variable annuity living benefits which decreased due to rising equities and interest rates in the quarter.
Moving to our business results starting on Slide 6 with annuities I’ll discuss the comparative results excluding the market-driven and discrete items that I’ve already mentioned.
Annuities earnings were $403 million for the quarter up $13 million from a year ago.
Return on Assets or ROA was 104 basis points for the fourth quarter roughly in line with the earlier quarters of the year and up from a year ago.
The earnings increase in ROA improvement came mainly from lower interest expense.
A 3% decline in policy charges and fees driven by the decline in average account values was essentially offset by lower base amortization and distribution costs.
Slide 7 presents our annuity sales.
You can see the impact of our product diversification strategy in the change in our sales mix.
Notably we have reinsured the living benefit guarantee related to our Highest Daily or HD product representing about 18% of gross sales for 2015.
Recall that this contract started in April and extends through 2016.
We’ve also grown sales of our fixed income based PDI product and investment-focused annuities.
As a result only about 40% of our sales for the year and about one-third for the current quarter come with retained exposure to equity market linked living benefit guarantees.
Turning to Slide 8 retirement earnings were $168 million for the quarter compared to $294 million a year ago.
The decrease was mainly driven by a $105 million lower contribution from net investment results.
Returns from non-coupon investments and mortgage prepayment income were about $20 million below our average expectations in the current quarter versus about $70 million above average expectations a year ago.
Bond portfolio yields were also lower in the current quarter.
The remainder of the earnings decline came mainly from higher expenses including business development costs.
The sequential quarter decline in earnings was mainly driven by a lower contribution from investment results and higher expenses.
The latter of which were about $15 million greater in the fourth quarter than our quarterly average for the year.
Turning to Slide 9 total retirement gross deposits and sales were $8.3 billion for the current quarter compared to $14.2 billion a year ago.
Standalone institutional gross sales were $3.4 billion for the quarter including $1.8 billion from three significant funded in PRT cases compared to sales of $8.5 billion a year ago which included about $7 billion of significant funded and unfunded PRT cases.
Full-service sales were roughly in line with a year ago.
Total retirement account values amounted to $369 billion at year-end up by about $5 billion from a year earlier.
Net flows were about $4 billion for the year driven largely by our full-service business.
In our institutional standalone business we more than offset our run off of funded PRT business with just under $4 billion of significant new cases that closed during the year.
Turning to Slide 10 Asset Management earnings were $198 million for the quarter compared to $192 million a year ago.
While most of the segments results come from asset management fees the increase from a year ago was driven by a greater contribution from incentive transaction strategic investing and commercial mortgage activities reflecting a gain of about $10 million from an asset disposition in the current quarter.
Asset management fees are up 3% year-over-year tracking the increase in overall assets under management.
Unaffiliated third party AUM grew about $25 billion from a year ago with $22 billion of net flows over the past year including about $5 billion in the current quarter mainly driven by new institutional fixed income mandates.
The earnings benefit from continued growth of asset management fees was more than offset by a lower contribution from the segments other operations which included an earn-out gain of about $10 million a year ago and also included higher expenses including to support growth initiatives.
Turning to Slide 11 Individual Life earnings were $119 million for the quarter compared to $135 million a year ago.
The net contribution from claims experience was modestly below our average expectations for the current quarter and about $15 million less favorable than a year ago.
For the full year our mortality experience was roughly in line with our average expectations.
The current quarter contribution from investment results was also down from a year ago and included returns on non-coupon investments slightly below our average expectations.
Considered together these items had a negative impact of about $10 million on current quarter results.
I would highlight that expenses in the quarter were about $20 million greater than our quarterly average for the year.
Turning to Slide 12 Individual Life sales based on annualized new business premiums were up $49 million or 38% from a year ago.
Guaranteed Universal life sales contributed $30 million of the increase mainly from greater sales in selected age bands where we re-priced to bring our rates more in line with the market.
The remainder of the increase came mainly from our other Universal Life products.
Turning to Slide 13 Group Insurance earnings were $27 million for the quarter compared to $44 million a year ago.
The decrease in earnings was driven by a lower contribution from investment results with non-coupon returns slightly below our average expectations and modestly less favorable underwriting results reflecting the impact of a smaller disability block driven by our re-pricing actions.
Slide 14 presents a timeline of our Group Insurance benefits ratios after adjustment for the impact of our actuarial reviews and other refinements.
Our benefits ratio for 2015 is near the low-end of our targeted range of 87% to 91% reflecting the substantial completion of underwriting and re-pricing actions we’ve taken over the last few years.
As we’ve commented benefits ratios can fluctuate from one quarter to another.
But we feel that we are now positioned for controlled growth with ongoing pricing and underwriting discipline.
Moving to International Insurance and turning to Slide 15.
Earnings for our Life Planner business were $367 million for the quarter compared to $382 million a year ago.
Excluding a $14 million negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates earnings are essentially unchanged from a year ago.
The benefit to earnings from continued business growth was offset by higher expenses and less favorable mortality experience in the current quarter.
The higher levels of expenses in the current quarter reflected benefit plan costs including an unfavorable true-up and costs to update technology as part of an ongoing project.
Mortality experience in the current quarter was about $10 million more favorable than average expectations but about $15 million less favorable than a year ago.
The sequential quarter decline in earnings mainly reflects the concentration of expenses in the fourth quarter which are about $40 million above the quarterly average for the year including items such as benefit plan and technology costs.
Turning to Slide 16 Gibraltar Life earnings were $371 million for the quarter compared to $385 million a year ago.
Excluding a negative impact of $13 million on the comparison from foreign currency exchange rates earnings are essentially unchanged from a year-ago.
The contribution to quarterly results from policy benefits experience included mortality about $15 million more favorable than our average expectations.
But mortality was about $10 million below the year ago quarter which benefited from higher surrender gains.
The benefit of business growth was offset by a lower net contribution from investment results including non-coupon returns about $10 million below our average expectations in the current quarter.
Expenses in the fourth quarter were about $15 million above the quarterly average for the year.
Turning to Slide 17 International Insurance sales on a constant dollar basis was $692 million for the current quarter up $43 million or 7% from a year ago.
The increase was driven by our Life Planners in Japan and other key markets and by Gibraltar’s bank channel and life consultants.
Life Planner sales in Japan were up 7% from a year ago reflecting a 6% increase in agent-count and mainly driven by greater term insurance sales.
Life Planner sales outside of Japan were up 10% mainly from an increase in Brazil where Life Planner count has grown about 20% from a year ago.
Gibraltar sales were up by 5% from a year ago.
Sales from the bank channel increased 12% largely driven by a recurring premium U.S.
dollar retirement income product that is popular among high net worth clients of a key distributor that we recently cultivated.
Turning to Slide 18 the corporate and other loss was $378 million for the current quarter compared to $326 million loss a year ago.
Corporate expenses can fluctuate.
The increased loss came mainly from higher expenses including items that are inherently variable such as strategic initiatives and hedging costs that we retain in corporate and other.
Now I’ll turn it over to Rob.
Thanks Mark.
I will provide an update on some key items under the heading of financial strength and flexibility.
Starting on Slide 19.
While statutory results are not yet final we estimate that PICO will report RBC well above our 400% target as of year-end.
In Japan Prudential of Japan and Gibraltar Life reported strong solvency margins of 853% and 900% respectively as of their most recent reporting date September 30 2015.
Looking at our overall capital and liquidity position on Slide 20 a year-ago we estimated our available on-balance-sheet capital capacity at approximately $2 billion on a net basis.
This represented about $4 billion a gross basis less $2 billion earmarked to reduce capital debt to arrive at our long-term targeted financial ratio of 25%.
During the year we returned over $2 billion of capital to shareholders including $1 billion of share repurchases and over $1 billion of common stock dividends including a fourth quarter dividend representing a 21% increase.
At the same time we’ve increased our on-balance-sheet capital capacity to over $4 billion at year-end and have brought our leverage ratios within our targets of 25% for financial leverage and 45% for total leverage.
The increase in capital capacity in the standalone fourth quarter was mainly driven by capital generated from our businesses and a favorable impact from estimated statutory AAT reserves; net of about $600 million of dividends and share repurchases in the quarter.
The fair value of the Japan equity hedge which is not included in our capital capacity was about $1.7 billion at year-end.
As John mentioned we remain on schedule to recapture our VA living benefit rider and managed the risks in our statutory entities.
We continue to believe this action will not have a negative impact on our available on-balance-sheet capital capacity and expect it to contribute to our overall financial flexibility.
As we noted we will continue to manage the risks to AA standards and CTE 97 levels.
We will provide more details as the recapture occurs during 2016.
To address the current topic our direct and indirect exposure to the energy sector at year-end was about 4% of our general account portfolio excluding the Closed Block.
Our energy exposure is mainly through public and private corporate fixed maturities of which roughly 90% are investment grade and net of unrealized losses of about $200 million.
Turning to the cash position of the parent company cash and short-term investments net of outstanding commercial paper amounted to about $5 billion as of year-end.
The cash in excess of our targeted $1.3 billion of liquidity cushion is available to repay maturing operating debt to fund operating needs and to deploy over time for strategic and capital management purposes.
Now I’ll turn it back over to John.
Thank you Rob.
Thank you Mark.
We’d like to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ryan Krueger KBW.
Please go ahead.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
I was first hoping you could give us some perspective on how to think about your sensitivity to - excess capital sensitivity to lower interest rates that are currently in the kind of the 160 range.
Anything you could provide there would be helpful.
Ryan it’s Rob.
Happy to do so.
First let me caveat that obviously we can’t update guidance or initially update our year-end numbers.
And actually if you don’t mind what I’m going to do is I’m going to take the liberty of anticipating your follow-up question which is thinking about the same question in the context of what the impacts may be to our earnings.
And so let me hit both of those in the same - at the same time if that’s okay.
And actually I’ll just start with the earnings because I think that’s relatively straightforward.
If you look at the performance in the fourth quarter what we would note is that there have been no changes in the underlying business fundamentals from the point which we provided guidance.
We knew and communicated about the level and timing of expenses.
And we stated that we expected 2016 to be about $0.15 over these levels.
With regard to the sensitivity to the capital markets specifically to the question you asked I think we’ve given those - the guidance on that out before about a 100 basis points plus or minus and interest rates is $0.20 a share and equity markets plus or minus 10% is about $0.30 a share excluding our alternatives portfolio.
On the capital piece we actually don’t provide similar rules of thumb for capital.
And it’s primarily because it’s not linear and it’s also subject to management actions.
We actively obviously manage that capital position.
But I have a couple of observations.
First if you look historically the two largest drivers to our capital volatility in response to markets has been in our annuities business and as a result of AAT updates.
So let me turn to AAT first.
If you pro-formaed the decline in interest rates since year-end back on our calculation at the end of last year it would not have a material impact on the year-end calculation.
And the reason for that is there are three components for the AAT calculation in addition to assumptions three market components.
It’s underlying treasuries but it also reflects credit spreads.
So while treasuries have come down credit spreads have expanded pretty dramatically.
And it’s also the calculation is floored off the - it’s keyed off the five-year treasury and that has an impact as well.
So turning from AAT to the annuities business as you know we are in the process of recapturing the risks that we ceded out to our captive.
There are number of motivations for undertaking to do this.
One of which is to reduce the volatility in capital and leverage that has been associated with market movements historically in that business and as a result of that captive.
It’s inappropriate for me to comment further.
Given that we’re still on process.
But I’d caution you to remember or encourage you to remember that it’s our expectation that we will be substantially less sensitive to rate movements going forward in the annuities business subsequent to the completion of that recapture.
And actually let me add one last thought.
And that is that while the market movements are certainly not welcome they are not by any means unexpected or unanticipated.
And what I mean by that is the degree of movement that we’ve seen so far this quarter is anticipated in our own cyclical stresses that we consider before we make decisions about how we’re going to be deploying capital during the course of the year.
We run those stress scenarios in order to ensure that we can execute on our plans in the face of what we think of as moderate or cyclical levels of market volatility and what we’ve seen to date would fit within that definition.
That’s very helpful Rob.
Thank you.
And then a separate question can you give us some sense of how much non-coupon investment income you would expect in either a normal quarter or a normal year? I think I can answer that question.
Yes so if you look at the expected level of our earnings across the - if I look at first the U.S.
portfolio for the fourth quarter our expected level of earnings was about - total was 9.3 - hang on one second.
Do you want to go on another question and come back to that while you check it? Yes.
Yes.
I am actually not finding that right up but let me come back to that Ryan if it’s okay.
Okay.
That will be great.
Thanks.
Actually I think I - actually I think I have the numbers here.
The total returns in the fourth quarter across both the U.S.
and international businesses were about $48 million.
The expected variance on that against what we would otherwise have anticipated was about negative 30.
So if you add those two numbers together that would get you to a total expected level.
Does that make sense to you? Yes yes.
Yes that’s perfect.
Thanks.
Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
Just first can you just discuss the impact if any of the recent moves by the Bank of Japan on your Japan business? Sure.
I will take that probably in two parts because there is a part that has to do with product and there’s a part that has to do with investment.
So let me start with the products first in terms of sort of rates and re-pricing.
But if I can let me step back and put the Japan business into perspective.
So if you look at the entire year within our Japan business yen-based products are slightly more than half of sales and foreign currency is slightly under half.
In terms of the entire international operation the yen-based products are about 45% of sales.
Now it’s also important to note out or to point out that about 82% of what we do - what we sell is recurring pay products.
And of the 18% that is single pay 13% is fixed annuities which we price every two weeks.
So if you put all those numbers to the Cuisinart and you boil them down you see that less than 5% of our international sales are single premium life or retirement products in Japan and we monitor those really carefully.
And to put that into perspective what that 5% means we sold less than $20 million of single premium life or retirement products in the fourth quarter.
So the next point I’d like to make is we’ve been dealing with decreasing interest rate environment for a long time and maintaining profitability.
For example we sell no single premium A&amp;H products.
We only sell recurring premium products so there is minimal spread risk associated with these.
In addition we stopped selling any single premium endowment products last year.
Having said that of course there will be some impact to low rates but it’s a matter of degree.
And the way we manage the risk is we continuously examine our product lineup and its profitability adjusting pricing when necessary to reflect lower rate levels which again we’ve been doing for years as rates have been coming down.
We also reduced commissions or discontinued sales of certain products that are more interest-rate sensitive if they can’t meet our profit expectations.
For example Gibraltar Life stopped paying its - stopped selling its six year single premium endowment product in March of 2015.
And in July we discontinued selling the single premium whole life through the bank channel.
Gibraltar also discontinued selling its 10-year single premium endowment product which again means that all sales of single premium endowment products in the Japan business have been discontinued.
And we’ve also reduced crediting rates on certain products for BOJ and Gibraltar.
So we’ve taken and will continue to take action on all our product lines to maintain the appropriate level of profitability in the face of the current interest rate environments or changes to interest - valuation tables or mortality tables or other things.
The other thing to remember is that within Japan over 60% of our premiums enforce a new sales or from products where most of the profits come from mortality morbidity or expense margins.
So inherently we’re less dependent upon spread even when you think about recurring premium product or low interest rates for a long period of time.
So in summary there are three main reasons for our ability to maintain the profitability.
One are the factors that - other factors other than just price which are important i.e.
our strategy to emphasize service to our customers which gets the strength of our capital distribution which is critical.
And the way they approach both their customers and the way that we approach third party distribution.
The second is the type of products we sell most of which are recurring premium and much of which is less dependent upon spread given the extraordinary emphasis we have on protection products.
And the third is the discipline we have around profitability i.e.
re-pricing products reducing commissions or eliminating unprofitable product.
So that’s the product side.
The other part of your question really has to do with I think reinvestment which is how do we - how are we reinvesting the premiums and the rollover in this environment.
So first let me talk about rollovers and size-band.
In the existing portfolio our Japan portfolio is about $121 billion of which about 45% of the portfolio is in JGBs.
The portfolios have long duration.
The LP portfolio is about 16 years and Gibraltar is about 10.
So rollover is relatively light.
And to put a number on that rollover this year is less than $1 billion of the yen denominated investments at the portfolio level.
The second issue is how should we invest new premiums and rollovers given the recent lower rates.
But first recognize that a significant portion of the investment portfolio supporting the yen product is invested in long-term bonds that have been acquired over time and it yields higher than the current Japanese government bond yields.
So we’re starting out in a good place.
But we have adjusted our investment strategies to changing market conditions.
And post the BOJ announcement on January 29 we did significantly reduce our purchase of JGB.
However strategically our long-term investment philosophy emphasizing discipline asset and liability management hasn’t changed.
And so for new investments given the long duration nature of our liabilities we are purchasing JGBs further out on the curve in the 20- to 40-year range to the extent we’re investing in the shorter end of the curve i.e.
10 years or less.
That’s where we focus on non-yen investment hedged back to yen.
So our investment strategy for yen products will be to continue to invest in longer term JGBs and combining those purchases with a considerable allocation to more attractive yielding U.S.
dollar assets hedged back the yen including U.S.
dollar private placements commercial mortgage loans and corporate bonds.
This enables us to earn yields that are higher than those available from just having JGBs.
Thereby somewhat mitigating the impact of low interest rates at the short-end of the curve.
So hopefully that addresses both the product and the investment side.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
And then I just had one bigger picture strategic question I guess is in light of the recent announcements from Met and AIG.
And I realize that your situation is different in some ways given the higher return profile of your current business mix.
I guess just curious are you currently exploring a sort of plan B options in case final SIFI rules end up being more onerous than you expect and the SIFI off-ramp is shown to exist.
Erik one actually [ph] this is John.
Let me tell you how we are thinking about that and other related questions and do it more macro do it more expansively start with retirement annuities and then work it back into business mix evaluation.
Because we know and anticipated there is likely to be questions about that.
So let me give you a long form answer that hits that range I just talked about.
Firstly retirement in general and the income phase in particular is one of the largest macro trends in financial services for the next 20 years.
And these macro forces not only bode well for financial services industry in general but they particularly are for insurance companies in particular.
We’re not interested in disinvesting in retirement.
And one of the reasons - the reasons for this are both strategic and financial.
Strategically we’ve intentionally positioned ourselves to be in the thick of the retirement macro PRT annuities DC DB stable valued Asset Management.
And we’ve executed on the strategy I think exceptionally well.
It’s reflected in our investment performance our success in the marketplace and our fundamentals in terms of sales and flows.
And the motivation is not simply strategic it’s also financial as well as as you are acknowledging our retirement businesses make a major contribution to our growth rate which has averaged over 12% per year in the last five years.
Our ROE which has exceeded our 13% to 14% target for some time both of which are considerably better than peers as you are commenting.
Turning more specifically to annuities just for a moment helping clients accumulate retirement savings is something many financial players can do.
Creating income streams for life is primarily the domain of insurance companies.
So it’s very easy to foresee a landscape shift and the relative importance of players are purely asset gatherers asset managers to those who can also contribute to the lifetime income dimension.
And that’s where annuities can play a particularly important role particularly in broader and simpler applications than we think are likely to evolve in the future.
Now beyond on the strategic relevance the financial aspect of our annuity business is a very positive as well as as we talked about strong returns and a well-capitalized business strong cash flows.
And those are not aspirational.
That’s a reality and 2015 is a good example.
The challenge for us in this area has been historically the earnings and capital volatility.
And in the last two years we’ve taken very significant measures to moderate that volatility whether it’s the reinsurance with Hamilton or the recapture of our annuities captive.
And we expect these measures as Rob was referencing to substantially reduce the volatility going forward and to enhance our capital flexibility.
So when you combine the reduction in the volatility with already attractive returns and cash flow it makes the businesses the business all the more attractive.
Now once it go more to the - broadly to the business mix one-time Prudential’s business mix had the attributes of a financial supermarket with healthcare P&amp;C brokerage investment banking and a whole lot of other things.
And you could really challenge the wisdom of that and we certainly did.
And so we went through the challenging and difficulties of dramatically changing this and changing the cost structure that supported it.
And what we have today is very conscious very deliberate.
It’s by design it’s not by default.
And we are just focused on three things: retirement protection and asset management taken together and even more powerfully in combination.
And that’s what enabled us to produce that earnings track record the ROEs we talked about and the $9 billion of capital that we’ve returned to our shareholders.
For us our challenge isn’t delivering the results or the return on capital.
It’s getting it better reflected with what we believe should be a premium valuation.
And the factors we think about when we think about valuation and what’s influencing it it really go into three buckets: the macro-environment including low rates and foreign currency fluctuations; the regulatory uncertainty; then the complexity and transparency challenges in our business.
And I’ll just touch briefly on each and I’ll wrap.
So insofar as the macro environment we provided the sensitivity disclosures on each key area and we’ll continue to provide more.
But overall our business mix and how we manage our operations mitigates earnings impacts of any one macro driver.
And further our balance sheet strength is able to absorb substantial strain from low rates equity markets and credit shocks and still maintain very competitive solvency ratios.
On the regulatory requirements we don’t have an answer on future capital rules yet but we are hopeful the picture will be clear over the next couple of years.
We maintain a strong balance sheet.
As we say we have substantial capital resources which we believe will be evident and adequate under any reasonable capital standards.
And in the meantime we’ve returned capital to shareholders in a very substantial and very disciplined way.
And finally a point of great emphasis that was been underway for nearly two years it’s been our focus on reducing the complexity and volatility in our business which we believe has distracted from the underlying fundamentals and return attributes in our business.
And these are very significant actions including enhancing the visibility into our results through the raise dividend and buyback authorization which reflect the increased expectation of cash flow from over a year ago to 60% from 50%; the implementation of the divisional structure in Japan to mitigate the net income volatility from foreign currency remeasurement; the restructuring of the Closed Block business which simplifies our operating structure; and preparing the recapture the VA risks which will eliminate a substantial driver of volatility and simplify of our operations.
And we’ve also taken other steps like reinsuring a portion of living benefit rider on our newest Highest Daily VA business.
And we will take more of those over time.
Now those actions sound technical to many but they’re very meaningful.
And over time - some are kicking in right away and others will kick in overtime - but overtime it will certainly reduce the noise in our results that distracted our broader story and create a much clear line of sight between operating results net income book value growth and the like.
And we believe we will have a very positive effect on our view.
So we are going at it with a real effort of looking at better alignment between our operating results our financial results and our evaluation.
And these are the steps we think are most appropriate for us.
Great.
Thanks John.
I appreciate the comments.
Our next question comes from the line of Nigel Dally.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks and good morning.
A couple of quick questions first on capital you mentioned that lower AAT was one of the factors helping capital this quarter.
Just hoping you can mention how much that provided a boost in the fourth quarter.
And then on non-coupon just a follow-on from Ryan’s question can you also discuss the total amount invested in non-coupon investments and the competition with those investments? Nigel it’s Rob.
So let me hit the first question.
I can’t actually give you the AAT number because we have not yet filed our statutory numbers our statutory blank so the front-running are filing with the regulators.
I would note it was a significant contributor to our increased capacity.
There are a lot of inputs there.
They’re not limited to just interest rates.
It also includes assumption updates.
But if you look at where we are versus the end of last year treasury rates are little higher and credit spreads have expanded as well.
And those of both been positives for AAT release in addition to whatever assumptions that we’ve taken there so it was a positive and significant contributor.
On the second piece on the portfolio so if you look at our - what we label as our non-coupon or alternatives portfolio it’s about - it’s a little under $8.5 billion portfolio.
The biggest pieces of that would be in private equity.
It’s about a quarter of it hedge funds figure that’s 15% or so of what’s in there and then real estate which is about $1.5 billion of that number.
The residual would actually be in public equities and so we have a fairly significant contribution in what we call as our non-coupon or our alternatives coming from public equities largely held in our international business.
A big piece of that would be in REITs.
That’s great.
Thanks a lot.
The next question comes from the line of John Nadel Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everybody.
I was hoping we could get a little bit more color on the retirement segments’ earnings and the trend line as you think about it there.
If I think about the last couple of quarters before the fourth quarter after making some adjustments for non-coupon and client activity and better underwriting results et cetera I think the quarterly pre-tax earnings rate would have been somewhere in the $220 million the $230 million range.
If I make those same adjustments this quarter I think I am getting to around $205 million so it’s about a 10% reduction give or take.
What’s the better way of thinking about that as we think forward from here? John this is Steve Pelletier.
I’ll answer that question.
When you look at the retirement business I’d speak to the following areas first of pressure on the trend line in earnings.
First is as you say from non-coupon investments.
That’s experienced across several of our U.S.
businesses but a lot of that impact is concentrated in the retirement business.
Second is from lower reinvestment rates in particular in the full-service business.
And again our pressure from lower reinvestment rates is something that works across the U.S.
businesses but shows up to a large extent in full-service.
Third has been some degree of record-keeping fee compression that’s a trend we saw throughout 2015 although we do see it moderating in the latter part of the year.
Now the levers that work the other way the levers that we manage in the face of those pressures again it kind of really taking about the full-service business where a lot of this shows up.
First it’s the overall size of the book.
We’ve made significant investments in the business over the past couple of years.
Those investments have really been around improving service levels and the client experience the actual participant experience.
Those investments have led directly to meaningfully increase sales in the past couple of years and higher persistency.
Second is crediting rate management.
We’ve done some of that in each of the past couple of years and we have the latitude to take that further as appropriate and necessary.
Third is management of unit costs.
And a lot of our work around cost efficiency is focused across the board in our businesses but in full-service as well.
For example some of the references we made to higher expenses in the fourth quarter in the retirement business were actually efficiency charges that we took charges that we took to prepare for - taking steps that will drive further cost efficiency in that regard.
And then finally our focus on the total economics of a full-service case including investment management opportunities in a given case.
So that’s really where we’re - how we’re looking at the different types of pressures that show up in full-service.
Having said that like I say the impact from non-coupon and the impact from spread compression shows up to a large degree in that business.
Other parts of the retirement business such as pension risk transfer for example we had a very solid quarter and a very solid year.
And we look for further growth and further expansion of our results in those lines.
Okay.
Thank you for all of that.
And I have more of a - maybe just a transactional question if you will something that I’m wondering if you might be considering particularly post the BOJ moves and the impact on the JGB curve.
You’re in a unique position relative to a lot of your peers and then you have such a large operation in Japan.
And a significant exposure to JGB is something order of magnitude $50 billion in U.S.
dollars I think.
The unrealized gain there must be significant at this point.
And I’m wondering if you’ve given any thought to monetizing some of those unrealized gains reinvesting even after tax reinvesting proceeds into U.S.
dollar or other denominated securities hedging back to yen and taking the excess and buying your stock I mean - or more of your stock.
At six times earnings John you’re talking about an outlook that sounds so appealing over the long-term.
Are there things that you can take advantage of today to reduce your share count? So John it’s Rob.
Let me just take a stab at responding to that.
So a couple of thoughts.
One understand we actually do very actively manage our portfolio.
We manage that portfolio in the context of a very-disciplined ALM.
And so we would be - want to be careful about doing any kind of restructuring of that portfolio that would cause breakage between what is to be appropriate construct on the asset side particularly from a duration standpoint and an FX standpoint against the liability side.
That’s one.
Two we’re also sensitive to not wanting to do mechanical transactions which on the substance of it would - on the surface of it would appear to have good accounting outcomes but not change the economic outcome in any way.
So we really don’t undertake to play those sorts of games with our portfolio.
And then third I think as we think about stock buybacks I think I have delivered this message before.
And it’s consistent with how we think about it which is that we are - we think ourselves as very good stewards of our capital capacity.
Stock buybacks are an important component of that stewardship.
But we think about that in the context of delivering current returns back to our shareholders as a complement to our dividends as opposed to using an opportunistically to speculate on the valuation of our stock vis-à-vis what’s fair value for that.
Okay.
The next question is from Tom Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hey just had a question on the variable annuity business.
If I look at current market levels and I think about your Highest Daily value product I think we’re now at the point where you have a lot of the auto rebalance kick in which I believe starts between 10% 15% market down levels.
Can you can you dimension a little bit what sort of happens mechanically from an accounting standpoint? I realize a big asset reallocation from equities into fixed income limits the tail risk but is there - is there like an interim degradation of margins or returns DAC charges that we should expect if in fact there’s a pretty meaningful movement of the auto rebalance that occurs? Tom this is Steve I’ll address that question.
The algorithm and the auto rebalancing mechanism has been active in the face of this kind of market volatility as you would expect.
But it is really designed to manage the risk profile of an individual contract and thereby when you add up all those individual contracts overall risk profile of the product line.
It’s not designed to produce any type of change in short-term financial results and current financial results.
It’s designed to effectively manage the long-term risk profile of the contract especially as we’ve communicated in the past especially tail risk.
Got you.
But maybe this one is better for Rob.
Just in terms of the way that you would think about the accounting implications if there was a big kicking in of the auto rebalance in a given quarter would that necessitate anything real meaningful or is there still an ability to use reversion to mean when you consider normal assume market recovery and money coming back out of those contracts? Can you help frame that a little bit? Yes.
So I think Tom what you’re talking about are EGPs Estimate Gross Profits and how that’s going to be affected by the auto rebalance.
And in fact as a result of that you get unlock and you get a change in the K factor and the amortization of DAC.
Is that sort of the line of thinking you’re chasing? Exactly.
So the answer would be no.
That does not affect it.
Remember that under GAAP the valuation of our reserves is actually gone in a risk neutral construct.
And obviously what we eliminate of the margin piece of that that’s in the GAAP reserve.
It’s coming up with our hedge target.
That in fact is not affected by the mix in the account values between equities and fixed income because there is a presumption that actually the account values are going to grow at the swap curve rate effectively a little bit of a premium on the equity side.
So while there’s always some level of differentiation associated with that between the equities and the fixed income it’s not material and we would not expect as a result of changing of the portfolio from the auto rebalance to have a material outcome with regard to an unlock and/or impact on our K factor.
That’s helpful.
And then just one last follow-up if I could if - I don’t know if you guys have quantified it the $1 billion gain that you had in deployable capital at year-end.
And then is there a way to at least give a rough estimate of if the quarter closed around current levels would there be a meaningful change in deployable capital because I think some things have changed in terms of the way you guys have managed particularly the variable annuity business.
And I think the volatility should be lower but I just wanted to get a sense for if you could give some indication on that.
Well I would Tom reflect back on some of the comments I made in answering Ryan’s initial question which is how we think about capital volatility sort of post year-end.
And so as I mentioned the two biggest drivers of that being AAT and the annuities business.
I think I walked through the AAT calculation which is pro forma put it back to the end of last year.
There’s not a material difference in terms of that outcome.
And so therefore would not have changed capital capacity.
The second piece of it on the annuities as I mentioned there the - our expectation as a result of the recapture of the risks that we ceded out to our captives is that we will be significantly less sensitive from a capital and leverage standpoint going forward to movements in the market.
And so I can’t really comment on where we are in that process and what the exact sensitivity will be because it’s not completed.
But that is in fact the objective of that - or one of the objectives of that undertaking.
And therefore we would expect a level of reduced volatility all around relative to kind of market movements that we see.
Got it.
And Rob when is that expected to be done? Well we haven’t given a specific date Tom.
But it is during the course of 2016 we expect that the recapture would occur and be completed by call it the middle of the year.
Okay.
Thanks.
The next question is from the line of Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
So I just want to start with the annuity business.
I guess John you made a pretty strong argument for the sustainability of the variable annuity business industry-wide.
But as we think about this vis-à-vis the DOL some of your competitors have talked about pretty significant shifts in that business away from upfront commissions to trailing compensation.
Just wanted to get your thoughts on how you’re positioned if we move down that road.
And if you think we might see a slowdown near-term in terms of sales for the industry as we make that transition.
Yes.
Steve Pelletier will speak to that.
Yes Suneet.
I’ll speak to that.
And I’ll speak kind of give another level of detail on how we’re preparing for the DOL to fiduciary standard.
We’ve been conducting extensive planning for it.
And we expect it to be released in late March early April.
We don’t yet know the details of the final rules but we are preparing for a full range of contingencies and degrees of potential impact on our businesses.
A lot of our planning is focused on annuities retirement and Prudential Advisors.
In annuities to address your specific questions we said we’re taking measures to prepare first for increased service requirements on our part in support of our distribution partners; and second taking steps on the product front.
Now in regard to - in regard to compensation structures and product I note that we already have had for some time of fee-based options in place in a lot of our existing products.
Those structures those options have had limited uptake as of yet.
But as the regulation takes hold we may see further migration towards those structures.
More broadly though and looking forward we’re going to continue to evolve our product line and our product mix.
We have already proven very successful in that sort of diversification over the past couple of years.
And we’re going to continue to evolve that product line and mix to extend the franchise and address a larger portfolio of opportunities with as John mentioned streamlined and simpler solutions.
If I could I’d just touch on retirement and Prudential Advisors as well because I think it’s important to kind of give the perspective on how we’re seeing the break.
In retirement we will be adapting the communications that we have that educate plan participants who are retiring or changing jobs on the options that they have for their retirement plan savings.
And Pru Advisors there will be on day one of the regulations effectiveness there will be an immediate impact on our customer-facing activities.
For example we will - or already adapting our systems for the data collection and compliance that will be part of those customer-facing activities.
And part of that that systems move really entails accelerating the deployment of some technology platforms that we had already long since planned.
I will just frame out the point that Prudential Advisors is a very important part of our retail distribution strategy.
However given the way we’ve reshaped our distribution platforms over the past decade or so it today accounts for only about 20% of our retail life insurance annuity and mutual fund sales.
And so as I say I wanted to give you that flavor for the granular preparation we’re taking for the regulation.
We do see coming back to your specific question the potential for some disruption.
But we feel that we have the strength of distribution relationships and the skills around distribution support and around product design and development that will enable us to make those necessary adaptations.
Okay.
And then just a separate one on expenses if I did my math right if I start with your consolidated G&amp;A so I’m talking about the company level and I back out your $175 million of overage it still looks like your G&amp;A is running maybe 4% or 5% above the nine month average.
So I guess I just want to make sure as we think about 2016 if there’s anything in terms of the expenses that we should be thinking about that was elevated in 4Q that might persist in the balance of - in remaining quarters of 2016? So Suneet it’s Rob.
I think what we’ve said in the past I think still holds true which is - actually if we look at our expenses for the entire year they’re about consistent with what we were expecting reflecting a number of the initiatives that we have which are requiring near-term spending.
But with that expectation or hope that those things that are outside of enhanced supervision of which most of it is occurring outside of that are going to have longer term payoffs in terms of positioning of our businesses and expanding our addressable market.
That initiative spending as I said is consistent with what we expected for the year on a total-year basis.
And when we gave our guidance I think we mentioned that expectation would be about $0.15 above that level - or the level for 2015 going into 2016.
Got it.
So just to come back on the guidance and the outlook that you gave and I know you don’t revisit it but I think Rob what you were saying at the beginning was that sort of everything that happened in the fourth quarter was largely contemplated when you gave that what it was 975 to 1025 range.
And that other than kind of the macro sensitivities of the equity markets and interest rates there’s nothing that’s really changed in that line of thinking.
Yes.
Again not updating but I would say from a business fundamental standpoint nothing has changed with our regard to our view to that.
Obviously market forces are outside of being able to actually predict that.
And then the usual things that we walk you through from a run rate standpoint around mortality and returns from alternatives those are variables in the course of the quarter as well.
But from a business fundamental standpoint the picture that emerged was consistent with the picture that we were seeing when we established guidance.
All right.
Thanks.
Roxanne we’ll take one more question.
That question comes from the line of Michael Kovac Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks for taking the question.
Maybe a high level question here on bank SIFI and we don’t know the rules yet obviously.
And the insurance rules are likely going to be different than the bank’s rules.
But if you look at some of the macro scenarios that regulators are considering they’re kind of looking at sort of the recent bank CCAR rules that came out.
And they consider equity markets down 50% and the 10-year down below 2% among some of the other things.
I imagine that Pru’s running sort of similar analysis today.
I’d be curious to know your thoughts and how that does compare to your own stress-test set Prudential runs on its businesses.
So Michael it’s Rob again.
The level of stress testing that we see in the CCAR analysis and the sorts of things that we’re talking about internally there is a high level of consistency there.
In fact I would suggest that actually across the spectrum of risks that we measure the sort of things that we look at in our tail scenarios are actually more extreme than the sort of things that the banks are being asked to look at in the course of their CCAR test.
Some of them are consistent the equity one that you mentioned.
Our assumption when we do our tail scenario is a 50% to 60% decline in equities by way of example to make it comparable.
So there is not anything surprising in the way of the regulatory scenarios vis-à-vis the scenarios that we look at internally.
That’s helpful.
And then maybe a product-specific one thinking about pension risk transfer market in 2016 how do you think that some of the current macro volatility maybe changes demand on the one front and then second potentially the appetite? I will address that.
This is Steve.
Our appetite continues to be strong for this business.
We have built a position of market leadership based on our capabilities especially in the large case market.
And we look to continue to earn that leadership by advancing a strong value proposition into the market.
In terms of market volatility and its impact on plan sponsor propensity to transact I would say certainly funding levels have a - the funding levels matter.
So impact of market volatility on those levels would matter.
But on the other hand I think that the really expectation now of prolonged low interest rates would also in and of itself make a plan sponsor think about transacting in the sense that the plan sponsor isn’t going to be able to inflate their way out of the issue at all.
The rising interest rates and rising discount rates for the liability won’t relieve the matter.
I would say that when we think about the growth in the pipeline over the past couple of years growth in the industry and what we see in our pipeline it’s been driven and will continue to be driven much more by factors that don’t really relate directly to capital markets.
And those factors would be: number one increased awareness and sensitivity to longevity risk and desire to transfer it; and number two pretty much relentlessly increasing PBGC premiums.
That’s what’s been the driver over the past year or two and we would consider those factors to remain drivers in the future.
And I’ll just add on from a risk - from an appetite standpoint when we look at the risks associated with that business particularly the longevity risk we continue to have plenty of appetite to take on longevity risk given the size of our mortality book.
And with respect to the capital availability given the numbers that we shared with you as to where we stood at year-end we have more than adequate capital capacity to continue to pursue the business.
Thanks.
Operator? Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be made available for replay after 1:30 PM today running through February 18 2016 at midnight.
You may access AT&amp;T executive playback service at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 383122.
International participants may dial 1-320-365-3844 and again the access code is 383122.
That concludes our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.