Good afternoon.
My name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Public Storage First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr. Teng you may begin your conference.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our first quarter earnings call.
Here with me today are Ron Havner CEO; and John Reyes CFO.
We will follow the usual format followed by a question-and-answer period.
However to allow for equal participation we request that you ask only one question when your turn comes up and then return to the queue for any follow-up questions.
Before we start I want to remind you that all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this conference call are forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.
These risks and other factors that could adversely affect our business and future results are described in today's earnings press release as well as in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of today May 6 2011 and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A reconciliation to GAAP of the non-GAAP financial measures we are providing on this call is included in our earnings press release.
You could find our press release SEC reports and audio webcast replay of this conference call on our website at www.publicstorage.com.
In Q1 we reviewed our Same Store pool and adjusted the composition to include properties we have operated for the last 3 years at a stabilized occupancy level.
For U.S.
operations we added a net 6 properties to the Same Store pool adjusting the comparable total to 1 931 properties.
For Shurgard Europe with the acquisition of our joint venture partner's interest we added 60 properties to the Same Store pool adjusting the comparable total to 151 properties.
This leaves a total of 158 properties or 10.5 million square feet that have been recently acquired redeveloped or developed that are not stabilized.
Now I'll turn the call over to John Reyes.
Thank you Clem.
As outlined in our press release our first quarter core FFO per share was $1.28 compared to $1.15 last year an 11% increase.
Four items primarily drove this growth.
First our Same Store net operating income increased by 5.4% or approximately $12 million representing $0.07 per share.
Second we added $0.04 per share from redeeming preferred and fixed-rate securities last year.
Third properties acquired in 2010 and the first quarter of 2011 added another $0.03 per share.
Fourth our investment in Shurgard Europe added $0.01 per share.
These 4 items were partially offset by higher G&amp;A costs of $0.02 per share.
Our Same Store net operating income benefited from higher revenues of 3.4% along with flat operating expenses.
Higher property taxes and payroll expenses were offset by lower advertising and R&amp;M expenses primarily due to lower media and snow removal costs.
Operating expenses include indirect costs such as our information technology platform Web-based marketing revenue management HR and training and all supervisory salaries.
Our G&amp;A expense was $14 million or $4 million higher than last year due to higher share-based compensation.
We expect G&amp;A expense for the remainder of 2011 will be $30 million to $36 million.
We have recently completed 3 capital transactions.
First we paid off a $103 million 7 3/4% unsecured note having an effective interest rate of 5.7% for accounting purposes.
Second we issued a total of 375 million of Series Q preferred shares with an annual rate of 6.5%.
And third we will redeem $350 million of our 7 1/4% preferred shares.
There will be in EITF D-42 charge associated with the redemption of approximately $11 million or $0.06 per share during the second quarter.
As previously announced Shurgard Europe acquired the remaining 80% interest in 2 joint ventures that own 72 properties for $238 million.
The JVs have $280 million of debt with an average interest rate of 4%.
The transaction was funded as a dollar-denominated loan by Public Storage.
Our partner in Shurgard Europe is expected to fund its proportional interest during the second quarter.
We increased our quarterly dividend to $0.95 per share a 19% increase.
Our consistent long-term dividend policy has been to distribute only our taxable income.
Taxable income attributable to our common shareholders has increased primarily due to lower tax depreciation and improved property operations.
With that I will now turn it over to Ron.
Thank you John.
During the quarter we benefited from higher occupancy and better pricing.
We added about 20 000 net customers.
We ended the quarter with occupancy of 90.6% increasing the year-over-year spread to 1.7% up from 1.5% in December.
Asking or street rates were also higher.
Same Store revenue per available foot grew by 3% compared to 2% in Q4.
At the end of April occupancy in place rents and asking rents were all higher than the same period last year.
We are well positioned going into Q2.
All of our top 20 U.S.
markets achieved positive year-over-year revenue growth in the first quarter.
The northeastern markets once again led the country and grew by about 6%.
Los Angeles our largest market grew by 0.6% compared to 0.2% in Q4.
The southeastern markets led by Florida and Georgia grew by 3.4% up from 2.6% in Q4.
Our net customer acquisition costs were lower primarily due to higher move-in volume and lower marketing costs partially offset by higher promotional discounts.
We expect our second quarter media spend to be about $2 million lower than last year.
Moving to our European operations our Same Stores had top line growth of 1.8% resulting from higher realized rents of 1.9% offset by lower occupancy.
We expect modest revenue growth for the balance of the year.
Operating expenses were slightly higher by 1.3% resulting in NOI growth of 2.1%.
Five of the 7 markets had positive NOI growth for the quarter.
With respect to acquisitions we closed on 5 properties for approximately $20 million as well as the leasehold interest for $7 million.
We are under contract to acquire 2 additional properties for $28 million.
In summary occupancies are higher asking rents are higher in place rents are higher share-based compensation expense is higher due to higher revenue.
We deployed nearly $400 million of capital during the quarter primarily in Europe.
We refinanced $350 million of preferred at lower rates and we increased our common dividend by 19%.
With that operator let's open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Eric Wolfe with Citi.
Bilerman here with Eric.
Ron just in terms of the dividend and sort of payout ratio and I think you talked about the lower depreciation and the higher earnings out of the core portfolio.
But it would seem also that just the process of redeeming the preferreds has had an impact on the percentage of earnings to common.
So that would have been a big effect.
And the reality is your payout ratio and you've had this pretty disciplined policy of just paying out the minimum but because the minimum is growing the payout ratio has also risen from the 40s up to the 70s in terms of free cash flow.
And I'm just wondering how you sort of think about retaining less cash flow and paying it more out in dividends.
Well it's really just a function of the taxable income.
And as you kind of articulated in your question the taxable income rises and we have to increase the dividend.
That's been our policy for 20-plus years to the extent that we find creative ways to shelter the income we do that.
The 2 big changes over the last 3 or 4 years are the tax benefits associated with the Shurgard Merger which was a taxable merger have started to burn off.
So that's reducing tax depreciation combined with as you pointed out redemption of a lot of preferreds -- repurchase actually of a lot of preferreds at big discounts in '08 '09 and the redemption of the equity stock in Q1 of last year.
So you put all those things together and the dividend has to rise.
It's not -- we don't have a targeted payout ratio.
It's simply a function of taxable income.
Right but I'm just saying about the perspective as you think about the balance sheet today one of the I guess drawbacks of what's been happening is the fact that you have less cash that you can -- less free cash flow that you're keeping in the cookie and you have to distribute it out to shareholders.
But I'm just wondering whether that's -- when you look at that your payout ratio's going to be 75% versus 40% a few years ago and how does that think about that from investing and things like that.
Well we have plenty of access to capital to grow the company.
I think our preferred capacity is well in excess of $2 billion.
We're still retaining between $200 million and $300 million of capital during the year.
So from an ability to source capital or those kinds of things if that's kind of your question we have plenty of firepower in that regard.
Your next question comes from the line of Christine McElroy with UBS.
Can you discuss what ultimately led the Shurgard Europe JV partners to sell their 80% JV interest? I know they've been reluctant for a long time and shot in the dark but can you disclose the cap rate on the transaction? Christy I would say really what changed in -- the key catalyst for us to consummate that transaction is change the management team at the joint venture partner and some changes in strategy on their part which made this really probably a non-core asset for them on a go-forward basis.
But really the people involved on the other side of the table.
As you know we've been working on this since we acquired Shurgard in 2006.
I'm a little embarrassed that it took this long to get it done but we're happy with the transaction.
In terms of yield if you look at the trailing numbers I think on an unleveraged basis it's somewhere between 7.5% and 8%.
And on a leverage basis as John pointed out there's debt in there at about 4%.
On a leverage basis it's just north of 12%.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Habermann with Goldman Sachs.
Ron on the question on rent growth I mean clearly you guys are pushing rents and occupancy's holding.
You mentioned the spread year-over-year widening out.
But can you give us some sense of how your comfort level in terms of what sort of rate increases you're anticipating going forward and I guess just balancing that sort of maintaining existing customers versus the turnover and potential having to do more of the one-month rate.
Jay this is John.
We have been sending out rental rate increase letters to our existing tenants.
I think I mentioned before we plan on starting earlier this year in terms of sending them out and we plan on sending more out.
So this year we did start in February and we've continued to send them out although the bulk of the letters didn't really go out until the May and June timeframe.
So far as a result the increases that we're setting are somewhere in the range of about 8.5% on average and we are seeing just a slight uptick in move-out volumes from those folks.
But we're not alarmed by the increase and we were expecting some sort of increase.
So far we're pretty comfortable with what we're seeing.
But again the bulk of the letters are just really starting to get out to our existing tenant base.
We're about halfway through sending letters out.
So about half of them have gone out and the other half will be out by the end of probably July.
And what rate increases are you looking for in Southern California? Southern California they're coming in probably about the same 8% 8.5%.
Your next question comes from the line of David Harris with Gleacher &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> If we think about what we've heard from most of the other companies is the animal spirits seem to be rising on development.
As we look at the landscape today Ron are you any more enthusiastic about development prospects compared to deploying capital on acquisitions? At this juncture we're not really focusing on development although I will tell you there's been some properties traded in some markets where we're getting pricing that might rationalize development.
So I would say longer term unfortunately pricing of acquisitions has come back rather robust and my guess is sometime over the next year or 2 you'll see some people start development.
Inc.</strong> Including you? It's not on our radar right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital.
I'm here with Todd Thomas [ph].
One I was just hoping to get some flavor for street rates relative to in place John.
And then maybe second just to get an update on where we were in April if I missed it.
Jordan April the street rates were higher than last year.
The in place rents were higher than last year and the occupancy was higher than last year.
What did occupancies do in April? Did you say? Occupancies were at 91.3% versus 89.9%.
So despite pushing rate it doesn't seem like you're getting a tremendous amount of pushback.
I know John you said that you saw a slight uptick in move-outs.
But it seems like occupancy's still trending even higher and it's effectively full.
So what's sort of -- do you keep pushing harder? What's sort of the solution? No we're pushing hard on our existing tenants.
I think we've talked about trying to be more aggressive with our existing tenants and keep the rent the street rates in check to backfill any degradation in the length of stay by the long-term tenants who are receiving rental rate increase letters.
But as we move forward obviously if those tenants don't move out at an accelerated rate and move-ins continue to happen I mean certainly we'll start being a little more aggressive on the street rate then or turning off promotional discounts.
But we're not quite there yet.
Jordan the other thing that I made in my comments is that we're dialing down the media spend in Q2 by about $2 million or so.
So we're modulating the promotional discounts and the media spending with the street rates and the rental rate increases.
Okay.
I guess that makes sense.
But the street rates relative to in place today are where? Higher.
Materially marginally? They're kind of marginally but Jordan the increase -- the year-over-year spread this year versus last year has widened.
So we're in a better position today than we were last year.
In fact last year we were still in somewhat of a rent roll-down stage whereas this year we're not.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
If you could categorize where the demand is coming from for your product how much would you say is coming from the homeownership rate going from 69% to roughly 66%? It seems like that decrease is commensurate with the amount of occupancy gains you've had since the bottom of the recession.
If you just give a little more color on that.
Well Ki one of the great things about our product type is we serve a wide variety of customers both homeowners and renters.
I think there's been some analysis done over the years of how self-storage rents generally trend with apartments and the couple of apartment companies that I've listened to or read their earnings the markets where they're strong we seem to be strong as well.
Have we've correlated directly to home ownership no.
Across the platform? No.
Every market for the quarter was up from Los Angeles to Northern Virginia.
Northern Virginia was up 6.3%.
Detroit of all places was up 6.1% for the quarter.
New York 6% Philly 5.7%.
So it's really across the platform where we're seeing higher occupancies and higher rates.
Is there any color you can give on where the incremental demand is coming from? No.
Other than -- generally the economy has improved slightly so people are doing more things and it's across a wide variety of users.
Your next question comes from the line of Swaroop Yalla with Morgan Stanley.
Ron you talked about acquisition market coming back pretty strongly.
Can you talk about the cap rates how they trended over the last year or so? And if you can break it out into the top markets and the sort of bottom markets? Well there has been -- I would say there's been cap rate compression over the last 12 months.
If you recall last year I believe it was in the second quarter it was on this call but in the second quarter that we announced the acquisition of 35 40 properties here in Los Angeles which was really the beginning of acquisition activity really starting in the business.
This quarter there was I think the other public companies announced over $300 million of deals and there's a number of private investors that have also taken down some portfolio.
So what we're seeing is a definite uptick in pricing on several of those transactions we were simply outbid.
People were more aggressive in terms of how they were bidding for the product.
If you look across the country and I can't go through by market but I'll tell you there's a little bit of a tale of 2 cities in the acquisitions.
On the primary markets whether it's Los Angeles and New York or Florida Miami or San Francisco you have people being very aggressive on pricing and going after product and I would say probably going down the quality spectrum in terms of what they're buying.
And then in the secondary markets maybe like Birmingham Alabama where you can get product at 50% replacement cost and double-digit yields.
So there's a big gap between the primary markets and the secondary markets.
Did that answer your question? Yes.
So just comparing it with the 35 to 40 properties portfolio which you acquired if those were in like sort of the high 7s I mean would you say like a 50 bps compression or any sort of compression which you can talk about in terms of.
.
.
On those properties -- my guess is if those properties were to come to market today we'd have 100 150 basis points yield compression.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Paula Poskon of Robert W.
Baird.
So Ron one of your peers described the product on the market as enough to go around for everybody which feels to me quite a difference from just a few months ago where we continued to hear duress [ph] of product.
Would you agree with that characterization? Well on the previous question if you look at the volume in this quarter either deals consummated or announced it's up dramatically from last year at the same time.
What unfolds the rest of the year I can't tell you.
In terms of enough for everyone well I'd like to buy $2 billion worth so I'm not sure there's enough for everyone.
But that will be a function of the pricing and the quality of the product coming to market.
But it's certainly dramatically up from where it was last year or even Q4.
Does that answer your question? It does.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller with JPMorgan.
You guys obviously had the original loan out to Shurgard Europe and you and your partner financed the buyout of the JV.
I was just wondering can you talk a little bit about the financing environment over there for Europe? Is it you're putting capital out because you've got the excess cash and it's a good use of cash rather than having it sit there? Or are the terms over there either the proceeds you can get or the rates just not all that attractive still? Mike this is John.
Well the equity markets for a company like Shurgard Europe who have to obviously do an IPO it's  probably really not there for them right now.
So that's out of the question in our mind.
The banks syndicated market is pretty much closed.
You could probably get some out of that but maybe a couple of hundred million.
But probably not much more than $200 million there.
So the market that is open where Shurgard Europe could look into would be the Eurobond or the high-yield market.
But that would take some time for Shurgard Europe because Shurgard Europe would need to get rated and obviously get probably an investment grade rating.
So that would take a number of months for them to do that.
So for the most part there's not a ton of available capital that's available to Shurgard Europe at the moment that may change.
And in the meantime Public Storage has the wherewithal to help them through and fund their activities which we've obviously done.
And we'll continue to look at the capital markets there and when they do open up we'll evaluate what's the best course of action for Shurgard Europe.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Stender with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> Could you provide just some color on how the primary markets in Florida Miami Orlando Tampa are trending relative to your expectations just looking at pricing and occupancy? Well I don't have the price occupancy here in front of me.
Do you have it? No not by market.
I could tell you on a sequential basis Todd Orlando was up 2.1% for the quarter Charlotte up 1.2% Miami up 0.1% on a sequential basis.
Absolute growth year-over-year we've got Miami at 3.4% Charlotte at 3% Orlando at 2.8% Tampa at 2.5% year-over-year revenue growth.
Does that help you? LLC</strong> Very much so.
Would you say you're incrementally more positive or say you're trending a little ahead of schedule versus how you would have assessed Florida this time last year? Well I'm very happy that Florida is moving in the right direction especially across the entire platform there.
Miami Orlando Tampa.
It's a great sign.
As you know Florida was pretty hard hit.
Not to take anything away from our team down there the comps.
Florida has been in a roll-down period for about 2 years so the comps are getting a little easier.
But they've done a great job.
The portfolio's pretty full down there.
We're regaining some pricing power.
So we've got a good team on the ground and they're executing and positive outlook for the balance of the year in the Southeast.
If we had a hurricane or 2 this year later in the fourth quarter in Florida you would really see the numbers kind of move off the charts.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Ron I have a question on expenses.
The 0 -- the flat for this quarter comes on the heels of maybe 3 or 4 years of either flat or fairly up or even a decline in expenses.
How much more efficient can you guys get on that and should we expect that to start trending up? Well Michael let me -- property taxes were at a run rate of 2.5%.
John that's our current...
That's our current estimate for the entire year.
Property payroll this quarter was up 2.9% Michael.
Most of that is incentives at the property level due to the higher occupancies and better sales at the property level.
That was also up a couple of percent last year.
Advertising and promotion's down in Q1 and as I mentioned will be down a couple of million dollars.
Why is that trending down? Well if you recall when we went into the downturn in '09 we really ramped up the media spend.
So it's going to get easier as rates improve and we can dial down the media spend.
R&amp;M is down this quarter mainly due to lower snow.
We don't have any control over that.
So that's a benefit we'll get.
My guess is our R&amp;M will be comparable to last year for the balance of the year.
And then other expenses is primarily management is up 3.5% and my guess is that'll be up 2% 3%.
So on a long-term run rate basis and the 2 wildcards here are advertising and promotion and property taxes but on a long-term run rate basis I would expect core expenses to go up 2% to 3% a year.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Ron you talked about pricing in the market.
You also talked about the size of the deal pipeline right now.
Just curious I mean you bought a decent amount of properties and lease-ups.
Just wondered if you could characterize the type of products you're seeing right now a bit better.
I'm sorry I didn't quite hear the first part of what you said.
Could you repeat that please? LLC</strong> Sure.
You talked specifically about cap rates as well as overall deal volumes on the acquisition side.
Just curious as to what you're seeing in types of product.
I know outside of the A-American transaction last year most of the properties you've been acquiring had a substantial lease-up opportunity on them.
Just curious as to what you're seeing on that front currently? There's a mix.
The larger I'm familiar with a couple of the larger transactions that were announced by the other public companies this quarter.
One was a pretty well marketed deal.
Another was done with an owner very good product quality in the Northeast.
Those were both -- both sets are pretty established portfolios.
The foreclosures continue to come to market but they're generally onesies and twosie transactions not a portfolio of 20 or 30 foreclosures.
So it's still a mix.
But I would say the dollar size of what's coming to market is the more well-marketed brokered portfolio.
Your next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with the UBS.
It's Ross Nussbaum here with Christy.
I'm thinking about the topic of move-ins versus move-outs because the industry data we've seen and I think some of the results from your peers have suggested that occupancy gains have been more a function of lower move-outs rather than more move-ins.
Is that consistent with what you're seeing as well? Ross if I -- I mentioned that we had about 20 000 net customers for the quarter.
We had 4% higher move-ins or about 8 000 8 500.
But we had about 6% higher move-outs or 11 000 versus last year.
You actually sort of benefited from a little of both? Yes.
It was on both sides of the table but our move-outs were slightly higher than the move-in.
Okay.
How aggressively do you think you can run up street rents now that you're back to basically -- I think the highest occupancy I've seen out of you in the last decade is maybe in the 92% somewhere.
So you're getting close to that.
At what point do you turn on the street rent spigot such that you're pumping out 3% 4% 5% rent growth on that front? Ross it's kind of tough to do that unless you're well below competition.
If we start pushing it up well above competition just to drive rates up because we're highly occupied I can guarantee you what will happen our move-in volume will shrink.
So we just don't drive them out just because we're full.
We also need to be cognizant that we're in a highly competitive industry and we have a lot of competitors out there that are doing a lot of pricing and promotion as well as we are.
And so we're very cognizant about that as we move street rates and don't want to get too out of whack.
Last year I've mentioned that I felt like we got our street rates too high and I think we gave away some market share as we did that.
This year I can guarantee we won't be doing that.
Your next question comes from the line of David Harris with Gleacher &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> You know how schizoid we folks are in the capital markets.
And it seems like the spook this week is about the economy slowing down in the second half.
Are you seeing anything that into your real-time reports from the [indiscernible] Ron? No David.
I mean we're heading into May as I mentioned at about 91.3%.
That's where we were in June of last year.
So we're about a month 1.5 months ahead in terms of hitting our peak occupancy this year.
Demand is robust across the platform.
And as John mentioned he's modulating the promotional discounts and we're dialing back the media spend.
So I'd take away from that from what we're seeing we're fairly confident about our ability to kind of hold pricing and hold volumes.
It's a real time thing it changes week to week.
But what we're seeing to date is that it's pretty decent demand across the platform.
Inc.</strong> I mean when we see move in the economy I mean the spike in oil prices led to much greater energy price inflation for example or substantial job losses.
I mean how quickly does that typically translate through to the tenant demand that you see? Does it take a while? Or is it pretty simultaneous? Well I think that the big picture and I really can't answer that question in detail but the big picture is from 2 years ago people are out of their bunkers they're out doing things.
Unemployment yes is still at 9% but people are out doing things.
There's more activity today than there was 2 years ago.
And all of that is very good for our business.
Your next question comes from the line of Smedes Rose with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I just wanted to go back to your earlier comments when you thought that development might pick up more next year which I think is a little bit different from maybe what we've talked about a couple of quarters ago where just given the asset class and banks' unwillingness to lend to shorter-term assets that don't prelease et cetera.
Are you seeing that change in the field? Or you were thinking more the larger private operators or public companies might get back in development? I mean I know that you said you wouldn't but just maybe a little more detail on what you're seeing there or thinking there? I don't know what the other public companies are doing or thinking of.
I just look at the pricing of some of the assets that are trading and what that is relative to replacement costs and go sometime down the road and a developer type will show up there and start to put some product up.
And my guess it will be as usual Texas will be the first place.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Ron just if I can clarify an earlier comment.
It sounds like the A-American stuff I think that's what you were referring to earlier which I think you bought kind of in the maybe in the mid- to high 7s.
You thought maybe 100 or 150 bps of compression today.
So maybe in the low to mid-6 potentially.
A is that number about right in terms of what you meant; and then b is Public Storage a buyer in top markets at that kind of level? Your numbers are within a pretty close range there Michael.
And are we a buyer for the right assets at 6.5 or 7? I'd say yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller with JPMorgan.
Just a real quick follow-up.
For the non-Same Store pool what was the average occupancy in the first quarter? Give us a second here.
The Q will be filed later today.
And Michael there's 103 assets in that pool.
The average occupancy is 80.6%.
That compares to last year at 85.2%.
And the reason why there's a dropoff is because of the facilities we acquired last year mainly A-American properties that averaged 64.5% occupancy during the first quarter of this year.
Your final question comes from the line of Eric Wolfe with Citi.
Mike Bilerman.
You said the G&amp;A was $30 million to $36 million for the rest of the year? That's correct.
And so we're talking $44 million to $50 million for the year.
The 10-K had $35 million to $40 million.
And so what was the big change in projection relative to I guess what was put out in early March? The big change has to do Michael with the stock-based compensation expense that I've mentioned in my prepared remarks.
That will be averaging $2.3 million for the quarter for each quarter.
It was $2.3 million in the first quarter.
It will be $2.3 million in each quarter going forward for a total of about $9 million.
That was not estimated -- because that program was not in place at the time we disclosed the numbers that you rattled off in the 10-K.
And so what is that program specifically? Where is that $10 million going and is it -- what sort of investing hurdles? Yes what it is it's based upon revenue growth targets and it's been given to various employees throughout the company.
If certain revenue targets are hit they will earn restricted stock units.
And the way that restricted stock units are working is is that the -- because we think we will hit those revenue targets now we had to start accruing the expense even though the measurement dates of whether we hit the target or not won't be determined until obviously 2011 is over.
But to give you some more clarity on the expense the expense is front-end loaded over -- they've used their options or restricted stock excuse me vest over a 5-year period and the expense is front-end loaded.
The expense in the first year which is 2011 will be $9 million.
In 2012 we're estimating that expense to go down to $4.9 million.
2013 will be $2.9 million.
2014 will be $1.6 million and then 2015 will be $700 000.
So you could see the expense is hugely front-end loaded.
And again that will obviously depend -- it's all obviously contingent that we hit a certain revenue target which right now we believe we will hit that revenue target.
And that $19 million net worth -- because I know sometimes the allocation on the P&amp;L is different than the value of the program because you have forfeiture grants and you have all these other things that go into it.
So what's the -- I guess what's the totality of the program? And then how much is the senior management versus the people out in the field and your officers? I can't tell you the breakdown between senior management and the field.
I think the bulk of it is out at the field.
But you're right in terms of about $19 million of expense.
Michael if you want to break out the executive team versus the field management you can go to the proxy.
It breaks down the plan in terms of the revenue targets and which of the senior execs here got the RSUs how much they got for this year.
This plan has actually been in place.
This is the third year of the plan.
And for the last 2 years we've not hit the revenue targets and so there's been no RSU grants for the previous 2 years.
So this is the third year.
We're hoping to hit the targets.
I can tell you all the people participating in the plan are highly focused on hitting the targets because as John mentioned there's $20 million of RSU grants on the line.
Okay.
20 million reasons.
That was our final question and I'll turn the floor back over to management for any closing remarks.
Okay.
I want to thank everybody for attending our conference call this morning and we look forward to seeing many of you in about a month in New York at the NAREIT [National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts] conference.
So have a good afternoon and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Beverly and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Public Storage Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Clem Teng you may begin your conference.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our second quarter earnings call.
Here with me today are Ron Havner CEO; and John Reyes CFO.
We'll follow the usual format followed by a question-and-answer period.
However to allow for equal participation we request that you ask only one question when your turn comes up and then return to the queue for any follow-up questions.
Before we start I want to remind you that all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this conference call are forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risk and uncertainty that can cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.
These risks and other factors that could adversely affect our business and future results are described in today's earnings press release as well as in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of today August 5 2011 and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A reconciliation to GAAP of the non-GAAP financial measures we are providing on this call is included in our earnings press release.
You can find our press release SEC reports and the audio webcast replay of this conference call on our website at www.publicstorage.com.
I'll turn the call over to John Reyes.
Thank you Clem.
As outlined in our press release our second quarter core FFO per share was $1.43 compared to $1.27 last year a 13% increase.
Three items primarily drove this growth.
First our same-store net operating income increased by 6.2% or approximately $15 million representing $0.09 per share.
Second our investment in Shurgard Europe added $0.05 per share primarily from the acquisition of an 80% interest in 2 joint ventures along with the 13% higher euro-to-dollar currency exchange rate.
Third our nonsame-store properties added another $0.03 per share.
These items were partially offset by higher G&amp;A costs of about $0.02 per share.
Our same-store net operating income benefited from higher revenues of 4% along with flat operating expenses.
Higher property taxes and property payroll expenses were offset by lower advertising primarily due to lower television cost.
Our G&amp;A expense for the quarter was $2.5 million higher than last year.
This is primarily due to an additional $3 million for an intensive plan that is based upon 2011 same-store revenue growth.
We expect this plan will add $13 million to our 2011 G&amp;A expense compared to 2010.
We recently completed several capital transactions.
During the second quarter we issued $375 million of 6.5% preferred stock and we redeemed $518 million of 7.25% preferred stock.
After the quarter we issued $488 million of 6.35% preferred stock and called for redemption $425 million of 7.25% preferred stock.
In the third quarter there will be an associated EITF D-42 charge of approximately $13 million or $0.08 per share.
As a result of these transactions our quarterly preferred dividend will be about $1 million lower in the third quarter and $3 million lower in the fourth quarter as compared to the same periods last year.
As previously announced Shurgard Europe acquired in early March the remaining 8% interest in 2 joint ventures that own 72 properties for $238 million.
The transaction was initially funded as a dollar-denominated loan by Public Storage.
In mid-June our partner in Shurgard Europe funded its proportionate share of the investment.
Although the loan bore interest at 7% it effectively was a participating loan.
Accordingly from early March until mid-June we received 100% of the income from the 80% interest in the 2 joint ventures.
After mid-June we began receiving our 49% share from the joint ventures.
Our second quarter earnings were about $3 million higher than they otherwise would have been due to this brief period where we received 100% of the income.
Also in the quarter we agreed to purchase through mergers the remaining partnership interest in 5 Public Storage-sponsored partnerships for $154 million.
These partnerships own 47 properties with 2.7 million square feet.
The transaction which is subject to conditions is expected to close in the third quarter.
With that I will now turn it over to Ron.
Thank you John.
We had a good quarter benefiting from higher occupancy and better pricing.
We added 31 000 net customers due to higher move-ins offset in part by higher move-outs.
We ended Q2 with record same-store occupancy of 93.1% and maintained a healthy year-over-year spread of 1.5% despite a 50% reduction in media spend.
Street rates were also higher.
Same-store revenue per available foot grew by 4% compared to 3% in Q1.
At the end of July occupancy and asking rents were also higher than the same period last year.
All of our top U.S.
markets achieved positive revenue growth in Q2.
In addition despite lower media spend all but one had greater move-ins.
Los Angeles our largest market grew revenues by 1.5% compared to 0.6% in Q1.
Move-ins grew by 1.2% despite a 58% reduction in media spend.
San Francisco our second-largest market increased revenues by 3.6% up from 3% in Q1.
Move-ins were up 2.1% despite a 56% decline in media spend.
The Southeast markets Florida and Georgia grew by 4% up from 3.4% in Q1.
Move-ins were flat to last year while our media spend was down 42%.
The Pacific Northwest markets primarily Seattle and Portland grew by 3.5% revenue up from 2.4% in Q1.
Move-ins were up by 3.8% while our media spend was flat.
The Northeast markets Boston New York D.C.
and Philadelphia grew revenues by 5.9% down from 6% in Q1.
Move-ins also declined by 3.2%.
Media spend was declined by 23%.
Our top-performing market was Detroit at 6.3% revenue growth.
Our third quarter media spend is expected to be about the same as last year.
Moving to our European operations our same stores had top line growth of 1% resulting from higher realized rents and higher occupancy.
We ended Q2 with positive occupancy spread of 0.4% up from a negative 0.2% at the end of Q1.
We expect modest revenue growth for the balance of the year.
Operating expenses were 4% higher primarily from higher advertising and property taxes resulting in negative NOI growth of 1.5%.
With respect to acquisitions we acquired another 3 properties for $40 million with about 300 000 net rentable square feet.
In summary our trends remain solid.
Occupancies are higher.
Asking rents are higher.
Our cost of preferred securities are lower.
Our leverage is lower.
We feel pretty good about delivering double-digit growth with debt and preferred at 16% of capitalization and in excess of 4.5x fixed charge coverage.
With that operator let's open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Eric Wolfe with Citigroup.
Your peers have done about 3 quarters of $1 billion deals this year and I assume as the largest storage REIT that you've taken a look at pretty much everything.
And just given your size platform and cost of capital I would also assume that you would have the most synergies from operating these assets.
So what is it about the deals they've done that you haven't liked? Or is it just that they've been willing to pay more for it? Eric this is Ron.
I'd say there's 2 points to both things: quality and price.
So the quality's not high enough and the price was too high? Yes.
Okay.
And I guess where did those the deals shake out versus where you would have liked them to? I mean is it that you were off by a little bit or by a lot? Well a couple of them we weren't even -- actually several of them we weren't even interested in.
And then a couple more the pricing was just -- did not make sense to us.
Okay.
And then just a second question is I guess given where financing costs are and given what you think is going to happen in terms of NOI growth for the next couple of years what sort of valuations do make sense right now and what would make you -- where are you a buyer? Well Eric as we've mentioned on a couple other calls it really depends on where the property's located whether it's stabilized not stabilized a whole variety of things.
So I can't -- there's kind of like no one answer to that question.
The next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
So what was the cause of the media spend being down so much or the reason why you chose to do that? Because of our occupancy levels were so high Ki we were able to scale back television advertising costs quite a bit.
That's really the main reason.
And so from a just a year-over-year comp standpoint is that something you want? That trend is that going to stick around for the next couple of quarters? Well as Ron mentioned we think that our television advertising costs over the next -- for the remainder of the year will be about flat compared to last year.
Okay.
And just a second part.
If you had to split [ph] the rental revenue the same-store revenue growth between rental rate increases versus new customers how would that look like? Rental rate increases most of it is from the increases to existing tenants Ki combined with higher occupancy.
The new tenants that are coming in are coming in flattish to down compared to last year because our market rates are pretty flat.
The next question comes from the line of Swaroop Yalla with Morgan Stanley.
I like to know what are the renewals what percentages of renewals you're sending out right now for August September.
But also if you can tell us that in dollar terms what are the average dollar amount being sent out and maybe by market? I'm sorry that's a pretty difficult question for a conference call by market.
Let me just tell you broadly what we're doing.
Let me tell you what we did during the first half.
The first half of the year we sent out about 3.2% less renewal than we did last year during the first half.
The renewals that we did send out during the first half of this year averaged about 8.5% compared to last year which was about 5.3%.
During the second half of last year we sent out -- what we're scheduling to send out this year versus last year.
We're scheduled to send out about 25% more letters in the second half or increases I should say than we did last year.
The projected increases this year will be about 9.1% versus 6.7% last year.
The bulk of the increases that we will be sending out this year have already happened.
They happened effective July 1.
Whereas last year it was spread throughout from July into September.
Not quite evenly we sent out the bulk of them though on July 1 of last year but we did have a good chunk that went out in August as well as September.
This year we will have no increases in August or September.
Sure.
So what does that translate into in terms of average dollars increase in terms of the increases? Well you could take a 25% volume variance plus about a 40% rate variance on about 25% of the customer base and work out the math that way.
Oh okay.
I was thinking more in the terms of monthly rental increases monthly dollar increase on average per customer.
We don't have that information available to us right now.
The next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with UBS.
You've obviously seen some success raising occupancy despite cutting back on media spend.
There's been some talk among your peers about cutting back in concessions.
One that did so pretty meaningfully through the second quarter actually saw negative resulting impacts on occupancy.
So I'm wondering if you've cut back at all in concessions.
And then just to sort of ask the rent question a little bit differently if there's any way that you could dissect if you look at the 2.2% growth in your realized rent per occupied square foot I know a lot of it was the in-place rent hikes but I'm just wondering if any of that had to do with maybe some burn-off of concessions that may have contributed to the upside in that number or higher asking rents.
What were your asking rents year-over-year? Yes Christy our concessions -- we gave out about the same dollar amount of concessions as we did last year.
So there was no benefit or detriment from concessions on that.
We kept discounting throughout the period.
Notwithstanding the fact that we had higher occupancy we kept the concessions going because for 2 reasons: one we knew we were cutting back on television; and then the second reason is because we were sending out more aggressive rate increases to our tenants.
We wanted to be able to back fill any vacancies that may have caused move-out started accelerating.
In terms of the rental rates that are charged to new incoming tenants versus last year it's about flat Christy and our move-ins are up as Ron indicated somewhat compared to last year.
I should say we're not getting a big lift in our revenue growth from new move-ins.
Okay.
So if I just look at the rent per occupied square foot that was I mean attributed almost entirely to the increase in in-place customers then? Correct.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Habermann with Goldman Sachs.
Ron could you talk a bit about what you're seeing out of the banks and their willingness to sell product to you? And I guess also could you provide some more details on the limited partnerships you're acquiring and what sort of returns you expect upon closing? Well I've got David Doll here so I'll let him talk about the banks.
With respect to the partnerships there's a pretty extensive public filing already that we did with the SEC and we're in the solicitation period.
So in that filing you can kind of figure out what the yields and price per foot are and all that for the partnerships.
With respect to the banks I'll let Dave answer here.
Jay from the bank standpoint we're beginning to see an uptick in their resolution of existing debt with borrowers.
Most of those are one-off transactions so they're not large portfolios coming out of that weaning of their balance sheets.
But there has been an uptick of activity from the bank standpoint.
Any particular regions or parts of the country where you're seeing that show up more so than others? We're seeing more on the East Coast these days than we are on the West Coast.
The next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Just first a quick follow-up on a comment that you just said in response to another question that you're not sending out increased letters in September or October this year.
I was wondering if that's just change in strategy somewhat because of weaker economic data in recent weeks or was that planned? No that was planned Todd.
No we accelerated the timing in which we use it -- we really don't do a whole lot during that timeframe traditionally and we felt this year rather than do them then we decided to accelerate them and basically get all the letters or the increases out earlier this year.
Todd we have to give the customers 30-days' notice.
So the process of deciding what date and who is actually done really in May because the letters go out in June effective July 1.
Okay.
And then Ron I was just wondering a couple of other management teams this quarter made the statement that the discretionary renter is no longer around that the renter base is comprised of mostly needs-based renters unlike in front of the last recession a couple years back.
Do you agree with that as you think about your portfolio and the industry today? I don't know that the customer has changed and to be honest I don't know how they know.
If you look across our portfolio I cited move-in volumes across various markets from Los Angeles to San Francisco to Florida to Seattle.
Move-in volumes were up across the platform despite lower media spend other than the Northeast.
The Northeast has been strong for the past year 1.5 years.
But the rate of growth is slowing in the Northeast.
Still great absolute revenue growth 5.9% but it's slowing.
We're able to drop media spend and still have higher move-ins.
So I would say that fundamentally that would indicate to me the customer base has not changed really at all.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Spector with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
If we can talk a little bit about the housing market and it seems that trends continue to weaken there the customer you're seeing coming into your portfolio are those customers that have been foreclosed on forced out of their homes or those are folks that have sold in the downturn and now are renting? Jeff over the last couple of years we have seen more people come into our space as a result of foreclosures and probably less people come into our space as a result of move-in because there's less move-in velocity in the economy.
But as I just answered the other question which I think Todd asked if you look across the platform we're seeing higher move-in volumes across the entire United States even in Las Vegas.
The only place where we're not seeing is really in the Northeast.
So all indications from our perspective and we're at record high occupancies is that the customer base is essentially the same.
And it's people moving from changes in life circumstances.
So basically if we continue to see home prices decline here there's really nothing to read into it that you may start to see less demand in your portfolio for self storage? If the last set of stats that I saw in home prices I think Detroit was if it wasn't the worst it was near the top 3 in terms of declines in home prices and we had record revenues in Detroit this quarter at 6.3%.
Detroit finished the quarter I want to say at about 96% 96.5% occupancy.
The next question comes from the line of Gautam Garg with Crédit Suisse.
Purely from a same-store NOI perspective I think last quarter Illinois was the weakest.
It had a 2.4% decline and Texas was about a 7% increase.
Has that trend changed and what are your expectations for the difference of markets over the next 12 to 15 months? Well the Chicago market on an NOI basis is they're one of our weaker in terms of the big markets.
Part of the problem is not on the revenue side.
It's on the expense side due to some property taxes as well as one of the big things with snow removal costs this year versus last year.
But that will obviously go away and it should get back to positive trends going into the third and fourth quarter.
Texas has been strong and it still remains very strong particularly Dallas.
Dallas Austin San Antonio have been very good.
Houston's probably the most weakest of the Texas market but nonetheless it's positive trending.
Let me try to give you a little more color on that as well to what John said.
If you kind of look at our top 5 or 6 markets in terms of revenue growth quarter-over-quarter it's Detroit at 6.3% Dallas at 6.2% New York at 5.9% Northern Virginia D.C.
at 5.7% Philly at 5.4% and Minneapolis at 5.3%.
At the bottom here is L.A.
at 1.5% and Sacramento at 2.4% and San Francisco's in there at 3.6%.
But if you look at the sequential rate of change in the revenue growth at the top of the group you're going to find Portland at 2.1% Orlando at 1.8% Minneapolis at 1.6% Tampa at 1.4% and then there's Los Angeles at 0.9% and San Francisco at 0.6%.
And down there at the bottom markets that are actually slowing down a little bit are D.C.
down 0.6%; Philly down 0.3% and New York down 0.1%.
So it's kind of touches on this growth.
The growth is decelerating in the Northeast and picking up on the coast and the Southeast.
The next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.</strong> Ron just curious of your opinion on if we do head into a recession here do you think your currently strong trends will weaken somewhat? Or do you think it would be a nonevent as one of your peers seemed to suggest this morning? Well Michael peers I'm not sure we have any peers.
But so far we're record high occupancies and we're seeing growth across the platform.
So if there's deterioration in the business we're not seeing it right now.
Did I address your question? Inc.</strong> Yes.
I guess I'm just curious to your thoughts on -- do you think Pub Storage is recession resistant or not? What would your sort of takeaway be from the last cycle as it might apply to if we do have a very slight dip in economic activity here? I think those words are very appropriate recession resistant.
In particular in our portfolio the West Coast has lagged the rest of the portfolio in terms of growth.
So we're kind of sitting here looking at okay sometime next year the West Coast markets will be picking up and leading in terms of growth.
So I kind of look at our portfolio as we've got some momentum in the portfolio and some growth still to go because of our concentration here on the West Coast.
But I think your term of recession resistant is very appropriate.
Inc.</strong> And then just from a capital allocation standpoint how do you think about long-term or even sort of intermediate-term rental growth in secondary markets as compared to coastal markets.
It was suggested earlier this coming season that maybe the secondary type markets really haven't trailed coastal high barrier peers all that much over a historical period and maybe the underwriting that causes the cap rate spreads to be 150 basis points or so is too wide and not right.
What's your view on secondary markets versus coastal markets from a capital allocation standpoint? Well I'll be rather blunt I will take Manhattan or Northern Virginia or Los Angeles over Cleveland or Cincinnati Ohio any day.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Stender with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> My question had to do with the completed conversion of the facility in L.A.
Do you have any other opportunities for that and what kind of markets would you look at? That was an existing opportunity of a property that we owned here in Los Angeles and we don't have many more of those opportunities in our portfolio.
There might be 1 or 2 coming down the pipe in the next couple of years but nothing further.
It's a great site along 2 major freeways in an area that we didn't have products.
So it will fit well inside our portfolio.
What submarket is that in? And do you know any of the occupancies within that market? It was in the Torrance market along the 405 freeway just north of the 110.
In that submarket we're pretty fully occupied 90-plus percent.
Your next question comes from the line of Paula Poskon with Robert W.
Baird.
Given that operating trends that you're seeing particularly around occupancy do you expect the seasonal decline in occupancy heading towards the winter to be somewhat more muted in the coming months? And if so by how much? I wish it would be muted.
I don't expect it to be muted because there's nothing that I'm seeing in the trends that would suggest that.
So I think it's going to be very comparable to what the seasonality has been at least over the past couple of years.
Your next question comes from the line from Omotayo Okusanya with Jefferies &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Just wondered if we can get a sense of what you were seeing in regards to operating trends both in July and the early part of August.
Well I think I gave you that we were higher occupancy at the end of July.
I would say about 92.9% versus 91.6% and our asking rents were higher at the end of July than they were last year.
And in terms of August that will kind of be in our Q3 results.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then second question in regards to opportunities to do things internationally I know some of the Hugh assets are in Canada and there's always been talk about you possibly doing something additional in the U.K.
I'm sorry.
I'm not sure what your question is.
Inc.</strong> My question is how do you -- your thoughts on further international expansion just given some of the Hugh assets are in Canada.
And in the past there's always been talk about you doing something in regards with the public U.K.
REIT.
Oh well we don't comment on mergers or acquisition public company acquisitions on a conference call.
And the Shurgard Europe we own 49% of it.
Our partner New York Common Retirement Fund owns 51% of it.
And so expansion plans over there really it's a joint decision.
We have in some sense had a meaningful expansion there by taking out our joint venture partner which was about $240 million earlier in the year.
So you can look at that in one sense as expansion in Europe and both Public Storage and New York Common contributed to the funding of that acquisition.
With respect to Canada that's really -- the Hughs family owns that and that's really their decision in terms of what they want to do with it.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just the last question I mean when you kind of look at the market conditions right now under what circumstances would you feel more comfortable trying to push your street rate? Well right now we're not going to be pushing our street rates.
We're going to be competitive.
We believe right now our rates are higher than where the market is right now.
So there's no sense in us being aggressive pushing rates right now.
And I can't tell you why the market's not raising their rates.
But we feel we don't need to be doing that right now.
As we've mentioned before our growth in our revenues is going to come from increasing the renewals to our existing tenant base and we're still living by that strategy.
And we'll continue that for the remainder of the year.
One other thing you should know there's a -- or put in your mind is starting July certainly August the balance of the year is kind of a net -- not kind of it is a net outflow.
So occupancies decline after July each month.
So in terms of being aggressive on rental rates we won't because we want to be able to back fill that space from customers moving out on a seasonal basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with J.P.
Morgan.
First Ron can you just repeat what you were saying about the July occupancy levels the July end occupancy levels? And then the question is I think you switched over the way you do your pricing recently to conform more to how you do in the U.S.
And I was just wondering what you could tell us about how that's progressing.
Yes the July occupancies I quoted were 92.9% versus 91.6%.
And with respect to Europe and the pricing that's just gotten underway.
So it's too early to say kind of what will be happening or the impact of that in terms of our having greater participation in the price in Europe versus not.
So it's too early to tell.
Your next question comes from the line of Smedes Rose with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I just wanted to ask you on the partnerships you're buying out are there more of those that you could buy out over time? And then just in terms of the effect on your income statement is that basically eliminates most of that minority interest or other noncontrolling interest and subsidiaries as these are consolidated? Yes on the second question the accounting you're correct.
It's minority interest.
On the first question how much this represents about half of all of our minority interest excluding Shurgard Europe.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
And I mean was there a reason for the timing of why buying these out now or -- I just wanting more color I guess on it because these are old established partnerships or limited partnerships.
Yes they're about 30-plus years old.
It seemed -- there were a variety of things that went into the decision.
Again there's a public document that you could kind of go through and read all about that.
The next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
Just a quick follow-up.
On your comment about decreasing street rates I was wondering if you keep that or provide perspective on a year-over-year basis.
Because we know that street rates go down because of the passive peak rental season but from a year-over-year perspective how would that look like going forward? Well Ki the end of July the street rates were higher than last year.
Is that your question? Yes along that right.
Yes at the end of July they were higher.
But as we move through August September October we will be reducing them due to seasonality.
But still higher year-over-year? Well I don't know what they're going to be in August September October but at the end of July they were higher.
And are you strictly following the output from your pricing systems or are you keeping it little more subjective given kind of the negative macro in years you've seen [ph]? I'm sorry.
Your question can -- again can you please repeat that? Yes sure.
So I mean you guys have pretty sophisticated pricing systems that look at occupancy levels and competing occupancy levels.
Are you following the output from your pricing systems pretty closely or are you making some subjective pricing changes? We're making a lot of subjective pricing changes.
Okay.
And last part Shurgard Europe seems to have operations going to slow down a little bit this quarter.
A lot of it on the expense front so I guess if you could just provide a little more commentary on how -- if the elevated level of expenses are kind of here to stay given maybe just higher level of taxes going forward if you guys provide a little more color on that? Sure Ki.
Europe's P&amp;L on the expense side I think you hit on the 2 key items.
Property taxes there was a property tax refund last year during Q2.
There wasn't a corresponding one this year.
So that's why the P tax is up.
And advertising was a little more front-end loaded into the year at the front part of the year.
And last year I think advertising year-to-date is up yes 13%.
So I'd expect some moderation in that growth for the balance of the year.
If you kind of unbundle Europe and look at revenue growth by market there's one particular market that has about I don't know 15% 18% of the portfolio.
That's Holland.
And Holland's revenue in Q2 was down 5.4%.
That contrasts with markets like Sweden up 3.8%; France up 2%.
The U.K.
was up 1.4% quarter-to-quarter.
Belgium was up 3.5%.
So overall we're doing pretty darn good in Europe but we've got so to speak one problem market and that's Holland.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Can you just give us an update is the expectation to get the repayment of the PSB loan in the third quarter or is there potential to extend that out a little further? No.
It's going to get repaid.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Ron just a quick follow-up on Europe.
Thanks for the breakout on the different countries but I was just wondering if you're hearing anything since the end of the quarter just in the last couple weeks whether some markets are sort of rolling over or if you're seeing a meaningful change in demand over the last month or so? Well sequentially occupancies in Europe moved from 86.4% in June to 86.5% in July.
Street rates are about comparable to last year.
So we haven't seen any big degradation in demand here in Europe for the month of July.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wolfe with Citigroup.
Yes Michael Bilerman.
Ron if you think about the transaction activity that's transpired in the U.S.
over the last year and if you look at your portfolio of over 2 000 assets I got to imagine there are some comparables within your portfolio to what's transacted.
I'm sorry Michael what's your question? I'm just saying within your portfolio there has to be assets that are in similar quality and location to the transactions that have taken place in the market over the last year.
Would you agree with that statement? We have properties in Cleveland and Cincinnati if that's kind of what you're asking.
Well I was saying for all the deals that have transpired like all the deals that you've passed on and that you've told us the beginning you passed on either due to price or quality or a mixture of both your portfolio is quite large.
I got to imagine that you have assets in those markets and assets of similar quality to what's transacted.
I'm not -- do you have a question Michael? I'm trying to lead you down somewhere.
I'm just saying if you're not going to buy and if you think the prices are too high for what's being paid would you sell any of those assets? Because I got to imagine you have assets in some cases down the street from the assets that sold.
Well Michael historically and best as I can tell perspectively we're not really sellers of assets because we're trying to continually build upon our platform.
And so we're looking for assets that are additive and not only create value in their own right but additive to the platform.
So we're generally not sellers of assets.
I can't on a conference call go through it portfolio by portfolio but I'm relatively familiar with a lot of what's transacted.
Our team here sees pretty much everything that goes down in the market and I don't know what to add to what I already said in terms of there's a gap in price between what we think it's worth and what someone else is thinking it's worth.
And there's a gap in terms of what we perceive to be quality assets versus what other people perceive to be quality of assets.
I don't know what else to add to that.
Well I guess I'm trying to get a perspective of really what that gap is right? Because if there's a certain amount of -- you are in a size in a portfolio size where the portfolio drives significant value to the whole to each individual piece right? Because you don't want to take anything out of the portfolio even if you think it's of similar quality to what's transacted and you don't want to take it out even though you could get it an attractive price because it's more valuable to be inside the whole portfolio than outside.
Then the gap's got to be so large to not take in one of these portfolios into the empire to drive growth even further and enlarge the pipeline right? Yes Michael like I said I don't know what else to add other than what I already said.
Is there a number that you're willing to at least give up? Michael let's take the next guy's question.
Your next question comes from the line of David Harris with Gleacher &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Mine's quite simple after that one.
Ron I think I remember correctly.
It's either the last conference call or the conference call before you referenced to management issues in the Netherlands and I think you just threw out some stats which suggest things aren't getting much better.
Is that issue resolved now? Yes David.
We put in a new what we call a market manager which is kind of the equivalent of a regional manager here in the U.S.
He's been in place about a year.
We've upgraded a number of the district manager positions over the last year as well.
So Holland is on its way to recovery.
I think I got one more stat here I can share with you.
In terms of -- I touched earlier with someone on the sequential revenue growth.
While Holland was down 5.4% quarter-on-a-quarter on a sequential basis it actually improved 0.1%.
So we're cautiously optimistic on Holland.
And we've got some good people in place and we just need to give them some time.
But good assets and good people in place.
So I think next year Holland will be a positive story to talk about.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
You may shut me down with this question but with all the turmoil that's apparently going on in Europe and obviously the banks are front and center do you have any sense that the banks may be -- or the action with the banks may provide you with increased opportunities in Europe over the next period in time? It may but keep in mind in Europe self-storage market across Western Europe is only about 1 500 facilities and I would say that the percentage of those that are purpose built that we would be truly interested in is probably 100 to 200 across Europe.
So there may be some opportunities there.
I think last year we did buy 2 foreclosed assets one in Holland and one in the U.K.
But I would not see that as nearly as a robust pipeline as we have here in the U.S.
Inc.</strong> Okay so you'd still say your greater opportunities are in the U.S.
compared to Europe? With respect to that kind of so to speak bank or lender foreclosure yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.</strong> Ron just a follow-up on the fund question from minute ago.
Up until maybe the last couple of weeks maybe your stock had traded as high as maybe a 50% in NAV premium something like that.
Don't you -- do you view that as kind of a mandate to go out and buy? It seems like that would suggest that by not going out and paying market for deals that maybe you're leaving money on the table.
How do you think about that cost of capital advantage that you have versus your decision to say that some of these other deals were overpriced and not appropriate for you? Well Michael I guess I would answer that a couple of ways.
One I think one of the reasons we do have the premium in our stock price is because we consider ourselves reasonably disciplined.
I don't want to say that we don't make mistakes but we try to be pretty disciplined with respect to buying and I think that is in part reflected in the multiple.
Two in terms of buying stuff I've said this often.
It's easy to buy stuff.
You just show up with the biggest check.
So it's not -- I mean we could buy as much real estate as we wanted.
We just show up with the biggest check.
And over time I think our premium to NAV would dissipate.
Given the market given the deterioration of CMBS market given where the banks are moving with respect to asset disposition and the upcoming debt maturities I'm quite confident we will have plenty of opportunities to deploy capital here in the next year or 2.
So from my perspective I'm not worried about that at all.
But we will remain disciplined and I think that is in part why our stock is at what you said that 50% NAV premium.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Just out of curiosity how are your results so far this year compared to what you might have expected either 3 months ago or 6 months ago? Has it been stronger than you would have thought or kind of played out as you thought it would? No I think this year's played out better than we anticipated.
And I think we're really poised.
As John touched on with the rental rate increases going into effect here in July I think we're poised for a pretty good second half of the year.
Inc.</strong> Does it seem inevitable that next year might show a deceleration in NOI growth unless rental rates really pick up pricing power picks up just because it's been so good this year? It's a little hard to forecast.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with J.P.
Morgan.
Just a real quick one on G&amp;A John.
The higher run rate you're talking about for 2011 just want to make sure that that's something that we should be thinking of as continuing out beyond 2011.
I can't answer that Mike.
I mean I don't know what will be put in place in terms of incentive plans and after 2011 this is a plan that has been in place really for 3 years and this is the third and final year of this particular plan.
And whether additional plans or new plans get put in place going forward I can't predict that.
Thank you.
There are no further questions.
I'll now turn the floor back over to Mr.
Teng for closing remarks.
So appreciate everybody attending our conference this morning and we'll be talking to you for our third quarter in November.
Thank you and bye now.
Thank you for joining today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Public Storage Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Teng you may begin your conference.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our third quarter earnings call.
Here with me today are Ron Havner CEO; and John Reyes CFO.
We'll follow the usual format followed by a question-and-answer period.
However to allow for equal participation we request that you ask only one question when your turn comes up and then return to the queue for any follow-up questions.
Before we start I want to remind you that all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this conference call are forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.
These risk and other factors that could adversely affect our business and future results are described in today's earnings press release as well as in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of today November 4 2011 and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A reconciliation to GAAP of the non-GAAP financial measures we are providing on this call is included in our earnings press release.
You can find our press release SEC reports and an audio webcast replay of this conference call on our website at www.publicstorage.com.
I'll turn the call over to John Reyes.
Thank you Clem.
As outlined in our press release our third quarter core FFO per share was $1.56 compared to $1.35 last year a 16% increase.
Five items contributed to this growth: First our same-store net operating income increased by 8.6% adding $0.13 per share due to higher revenues of 5.8% and flat operating expenses; second our investment in Shurgard Europe added $0.03 per share driven primarily by Shurgard's first quarter acquisition of the remaining interest in 2 joint ventures.
Non-same store properties added $0.03 per share lower preferred dividends added $0.02 and higher ancillary income $0.01 per share.
These items were partially offset by higher G&amp;A cost of $0.02 per share due to increased incentive compensation.
During the third quarter we issued $488 million of 6.35% preferred stock and redeemed $525 million with a blended rate of 7.2%.
In the fourth quarter we will redeem an additional $105 million of preferred with a rate of 6.95%.
It will be a charge associated with the redemption of about $3 million or $0.02 per share.
As a result of these capital transactions completed in 2011 our quarterly preferred dividend is expected to be about $7 million lower in the fourth quarter as compared to the same period last year.
With respect to Shurgard Europe we expect to refinance the 2 joint venture loans into a single term loan of EUR 215 million and eliminate the underlying joint venture structures.
The new loan will mature in November 2014 and will have a lower interest rate.
We expect to extend the maturity of our loan to Shurgard Europe to the first quarter of 2015.
Since June 30 we've acquired about $176 million of affiliated partnership interest using $120 million in cash and issuing 478 000 shares of common stock.
We incurred transaction costs of approximately $2 million which were included in our G&amp;A expenses.
With that I will now turn it over to Ron.
Thank you John.
We had a solid quarter which reflected -- which benefited from higher occupancy and better pricing.
Our same-store movements were up by 2% year-over-year offset in part by higher moveouts of up 3%.
We ended Q3 with same-store occupancy of 91.7% up 1.3% from last year.
Same-store revenue per available foot grew by 5.4% up from 3.7% in Q2.
At the end of October occupancy in-place rent and asking rents were all higher than the same period last year.
In Q3 all of our top 20 markets achieved positive revenue growth.
The Dallas and Minneapolis markets led the country with revenue growth of 8.5%.
Los Angeles our largest market grew revenues by 3.1% compared to 1.5% in Q2.
San Francisco our second largest market increased revenues by 5.8% up from 3.6% in Q2.
The Northeast markets had revenue growth of 7.1% up from 5.9% in Q2.
This growth was achieved despite a reduction in media expense.
In Q4 our media expense is expected to increase by about $1 million.
Moving to our European operations rental revenues improved by 2.4% due to higher realized rents and higher occupancy.
We ended Q3 occupancy at 86.3% up 0.3% from last year.
Operating expenses were higher by 2.3% primarily from higher R&amp;M resulting in NOI growth of 2.5%.
With respect to acquisitions we've acquired 4 properties 2 in California one each in Florida and Maryland for about $38 million with about 300 000 net rentable square feet.
In summary operating trends were positive across all our businesses and we are well positioned going into 2012.
With that operator let's open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Swaroop Yalla with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the new acquisitions whether they're stabilized currently and what is the yield going in cap rate? Yes Swaroop the 4 acquisitions most of them in fact all of them are unstabilized.
The yields range from 1% to probably 3%.
So they're in some form of fill up that will happen over the next year or 2 years.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And so could you quantify the asking rents or the street rents which you're seeing in your quarter rate in your portfolio right now? Well our street rents are probably running about 4% to 5% higher than they were last year in terms of absolute numbers.
I mean it varies across the country.
Did you want to know what they are on a per square foot basis? Research Division</strong> Yes sure.
That'll be helpful.
Well I look at it about -- it's running on a monthly basis at about at the end of October we were at about $1.21 per square foot per month.
That was compared to $1.14 last year at the end of October.
And where they currently stand today it's probably similar.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And so just to be clear this 4% to 5% is on a year-on-year basis right? That is correct.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Habermann with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Ron you mentioned I think as of end of October you were still up year-over-year in terms of occupancy and rents.
Can you give us some sense of where occupancy stands and maybe what your expectation is during this more seasonally slow period? Yes Jay at the end of October our occupancy was pretty close to 91%.
I think let's see it's 90.9% which is up from 89.6% last year at the end of October.
And as we've done during the rental season we're going to continue to be aggressive driving move-in volume and hope to maintain or actually expand our year-over-year spread in occupancy during Q4.
Research Division</strong> Okay so you're not seeing actually with the sort of pace of rent increases thus far that it's having any sort of negative impact in terms of occupancy? This is just normal seasonality? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
I think Jay asked just a similar question but could you give the occupancy trends going into September especially because it seems like you had [indiscernible] saying that September's been pretty strong unseasonally strong and also have you commented on October and how that compares to year-over-year? Well Ki I just gave the October occupancy 90.9% versus 89.6%.
So that's up 1.3% which is what it was at the end of September as well.
For the quarter and I don't have it by month but for the quarter we were essentially flat.
We were up 5 000 customers on move-ins and 7 000 customers increase on move-outs.
So we had a net change during the quarter of 2 000 customers on a 1 million-plus customer base.
And it seems like street rents are probably at the highest point from a year-over-year standpoint for you guys.
How do you feel about keeping this pace going forward to next year? Well at these occupancy levels we're feeling pretty good.
So we're able to hold the occupancy and push the street rate and we did that through Q3 and it looks like that trend is continuing into October.
And is there anything -- last question was there anything unique about this quarter or this year maybe from the dislocation of housing that you think might not be there next year? I can't.
I would just be guessing.
Your next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if do you think that the strength in street rents is coming from sort of overall market improvement or because you're at those high occupancy levels you have more pricing power there? Well at higher occupancies and good growth and movement volume or respectable growth in movement volume you obviously feel more comfortable about pushing the rate.
The other thing I would say in terms of our portfolio that you're seeing which we've been seeing for the last 6 to 9 months is the migration of growth from kind of the East Coast to the West Coast.
And I touched on how San Francisco and Los Angeles continued to improve and when those markets really hit their stride I think you'll see even more acceleration or good solid growth in our portfolio.
Research Division</strong> So effectively in terms of the -- in terms of your ability to push those rents do you think it's more a function of because you're running your portfolio at higher occupancy levels? Or well I guess what are you seeing in terms of asking rents from the properties that are around you so your competition? Christy I would say that demand is pretty much stable year-over-year for the most part of what we're seeing.
So the reason why we're able to push the rates is because of occupancy being much higher than last year.
So we feel more comfortable our tenant base is aging nicely.
In other words people are staying longer.
And so we feel more comfortable raising some rates.
We also as Ron pointed out scaled back advertising because we didn't need to do it and we're still getting nice move-in volume.
Research Division</strong> Have you been reducing concessions as well? We have not been doing that though.
We still maintain pretty much the dollar special out there.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wolfe with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Looking at your revenue growth this year in this quarter it really -- it stands out just I think given the macro backdrop.
The economy's not that strong housing market is very weak.
Ron I'm just wondering in your long career have you ever seen a period like this where you've had such strong growth in such a weak environment? Or do you not think the environment's weak? Eric we've come off '08 '09 which were pretty challenging years.
So I think '11 versus '10 maybe it's a little easier comp.
But as John just touched on we're seeing good demand for the product.
When I touched on the fact that all 20 of our top markets were up year-over-year in revenue growth which is great and we have some of our larger markets.
Well every market except San Diego accelerated during the Q3 versus Q2.
So that's another good sign.
And then the third item I'd kind of point out is the number of customers that have been here longer than a year continued to improve in Q3 up to 55.3% from 54.9% last year and up from 53.3% in 2009.
So length of stay has improved.
Demand is good.
We're able to achieve pricing and it's strong across the entire platform.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But there's not much I mean it seems like everything is working.
I mean all the statistics you mentioned showed that they are but I -- is there anything that you can point to in terms of just what's going on in the environment and what you're hearing from your customers which sort of supports that? Any sort of fundamental demand drivers? And I'm just trying to think about how sustainable this is going to be going into next year.
And if we can't explain it then why should we assume that the growth is going to continue at the same rate? Eric all I can do is point you to the matrix in terms of higher occupancies higher in-place rents higher asking rents and longer length of stay.
And as we've said numerous times before in terms of what are the demand drivers for our business it's people's life events: death divorce disaster relocation and those things continue to happen each and every day.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up I guess on that line of questioning with regard to asking rents.
Is that a function of you being able to actually raise asking rents to new customers or is it more function of holding asking rates steady versus last year where you were perhaps a little more aggressive to build occupancy and you mentioned that you have a longer length of stay in the customer base that's been getting rent increases.
So I was just wondering are asking rates to new customers actually what you're increasing? Todd that's correct.
When I was referring to the rates I was referring to the 4% to 6% increase year-over-year.
That's with respect to new incoming tenants not our existing tenant base.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then I was just wondering last year during the off-peak season you tested some markets with rent increases to existing customers and you sounded pleased with the results.
I was just wondering what your plans are this year to roll that out more broadly.
Todd we pretty much pushed those.
We accelerated those and pushed them in to the third quarter as opposed to what we did last year which we did some in the fourth quarter.
So we're doing very little fourth quarter increases to existing tenants because we accelerated it and put them in the third quarter of this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Paula Poskon with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the demand trends.
Do you think that -- how much do you think your favorable demand trends are attributable to just overall market demand? And how much is really you and perhaps the other public REITs taking market share from your private competition? Well Paula as I said earlier you can kind of see demand across the portfolio pretty solid.
The delta if you had all the markets in front of you the delta in occupancies between the strongest and the weakest is maybe 300 basis points.
So it's not like there's one dominant markets that are very highly occupied and pockets of markets that are low occupancy.
It's the demand and that the growth is solid across the portfolio.
So I can attribute it to just say there's one particular thing because we're seeing solid growth across the entire U.S.
As I touched on earlier we have seen stronger growth though move shift from the Midwest and now it's kind of moving more towards the West Coast.
I don't know does that touch on your question? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I was just trying to get a sense of -- if the -- to try and put some perspective around your ability to continue taking market share from the private players just sort of the discussion in the industry at recent conferences et cetera are around sort of the widening gap between the haves and have-nots whether that be on access to and cost of capital on technology sophistication et cetera.
Well Paula I'll tell you this.
We don't really keep track of what the -- other than our public competitors we really don't keep track of what maybe the other industry players are -- or how they're performing whether the public guys are stealing market share or not from them.
I presume that we are because all the public guys seem to be performing very well.
But with that said I have no idea and I don't know that Ron has any feel for how the nonpublic guys out there are performing.
Generally when we do acquisitions Paula when we look at stabilized properties similar to what you see in the public marketplace there's between a 500 and 1 000 point 10% occupancy gap between what we typically operate at versus what we'll look at or -- and see historically in terms of a third-party operated property.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that additional color.
And then Ron I just wanted to clarify something you said in your prepared marks that you expect 4Q media spend to be up by $1 million.
Is that correct? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And is that over 2Q or over last 4Q? Over last year Q4.
Research Division</strong> And then just finally I'm just curious what initiatives or what's the main focus that your new COO is working on? Right now he's on the field training.
Your next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
The Shurgard loan when they do get that new financing in place how much of your loan do you expect to get paid down? We will -- the existing joint ventures in aggregate are about $188 million.
So we're borrowing $215 million the differential roughly almost $30 million $20 million $30 million is going to be used to pay down the Public Storage loan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then on a going forward basis why I think about other opportunities to generate revenue growth when I start to think about concessions do you think you may get to a point where you can start to reduce concessions and drive rent growth even further? Or do you just feel like that's a staple of the industry that's just going to stay no matter what? You know what I'd love to reduce concessions.
But it seems to be a staple of the industry as you've kind of pointed out.
Every time we've tried to reduce concessions the adverse impact to our move-in volume is just too great to bear.
So we've struggled with that and I don't know that it's going to go away anytime soon.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then one of your peers mentioned that systematically they're trying to move more towards online reservations or online as a source of advertising versus the yellow pages and it's cheaper to do things that way.
Is that something that we could expect to hear come out of your operations as well? Yes well we kind of did that 2 years ago.
So if you -- we unbundled our -- in the press release we unbundled our advertising and you can see that and I think I've touched on before the Internet spend has been -- has accelerated while the Yellow Pages have dropped.
And I think we're down I don't know $4 million or $5 million over where we were a couple years ago.
So that process like I said we did it a couple years ago and that will continue.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Curious if you'd still kind of classify the current environment as lower move-in demand and lower move-outs compared to historical patterns.
And if that's still the case I'm curious how -- what lessons you can draw from that and which environment you think is more conducive to better performance.
Well Michael let me see if I understand your question.
You said lower move-ins and lower move-outs? Because we had about the -- our move-ins for the quarter were up about 2%.
Our move-outs were slightly higher up 3%.
So we had a 2 000 customer change in the Q3.
If we go back to '08 '09 we had to dramatically reduce prices to hold move-in volume or accelerate it while we had a huge increase in move-out volume 10% to 12% year-over-year in the quarter.
And that was tied in to the dramatic changes in the economy Q4 '08 first half '09.
Is that...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I guess kind of what I was saying was occupancy gains over the past year I think -- or maybe not as much for you guys but for some of your competitors would be that that was achieved through not as many move-ins as compared to just much fewer move-outs compared to normal.
Yes Michael I think in large part I think we're all benefiting from the lack of supply in the industry that has come on over the past couple years.
So yes probably demand has been slower than in the past but since there isn't as much new supply coming on we've all been able to just continue to drive occupancy higher.
Now is that better than a lot of demand with more supply coming online? I don't know.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess going to capital deployment it's been a pretty active year in the acquisitions side between I guess third-party stuff and partnership buyout.
Can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing today versus say the beginning of the year? Well you got Dave Doll here who runs acquisitions.
I'd like to get realtime information here.
Clearly Mike as the year's gone down there's been a reduction in number of deals out on the street.
And so there has been some slowdown in new portfolios or properties coming to the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there anything left on the partnership side that could be bought out? There's some single property partnerships Mike but nothing of material size no.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> You guys have done a very very good job on expenses the last couple quarters.
I mean are you starting to see any pressure on those? And do you think that the current expense level is -- you can keep the current expense level going forward? Well Mike do you mean flat year-over-year? LLC Research Division</strong> It's not just flat but you've limited property tax to 1%.
You've limited -- you've had negative payroll.
I mean it should we expect as we look forward more kind of in the normalized 2% to 3% range or is there additional cost opportunities where you can reduce? I would say longer term in terms of modeling and figuring out what the cost structure should be in terms of cost -- expense growth I would use yes 2% to 3%.
Are there going to be each quarter each year things that we can do to drive expenses out of our operating structure? Yes we're constantly working on things.
I touched on the Yellow Pages that we started a couple years ago.
We've got some initiatives going on in the phone center.
We've got some initiatives going on in field management.
But those are going to happen each and every year.
We've got a variety of things.
But if I were to sit down and say what is the long-term expense growth in our business I'd say somewhere between 2% and 3%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then just a follow-up why the increase in advertising costs for the fourth quarter? I mean if you look at your -- you ended the quarter up 140 basis points.
It sounds like the October trends were very good.
The October trends were good.
There's a seasonality to the business.
So even though we're up year-over-year our occupancy is down from where it was in the summer.
So we're going to try and step in and hold or even push that spread year-over-year spread in Q4 and there's some markets where we think we can do that with advertising.
LLC Research Division</strong> So it's more selective advertising in markets as opposed to kind of a blanket effort? Very very selective yes Mike.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Habermann with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up.
Ron you gave some color I guess on the acquisitions market.
Can you give us a sense if you're looking to raise your returns thresholds I guess given the sort of the more recent uncertainty in the capital markets? I mean do you sort of sense with higher marginal cost of capital that you need higher returns to buy assets today? I would say probably we're about the same where we were last quarter.
Actually in terms of our cost of capital I think our preferreds have come down in yield and our ability to issue that has probably improved by 25 to 35 basis points.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then finding assets below replacement costs is that still a possibility? It is it's certainly challenging but it -- yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wolfe with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Yes Michael Bilerman I just had a follow-up on Shurgard Europe.
You talked about in the press release the flexibility of this loan to simplify the ownership structure and then to also eliminate the costs.
Can you just expand a little bit as to what sort of the plan is from an ownership structure perspective going forward and how much cost you're going to take out of the business from doing this? Yes Michael the loan that we're getting is -- depends on when it funds and what the coverage ratio is but probably 100 to 125 basis points lower than the existing in-place loans.
There's 2 -- recall there was 2 joint ventures.
So there's 2 different bank syndicates one led by Lloyds one won by Saijin [ph] and so we're going to consolidate that eliminate the mortgages on the properties eliminate the JV structures and so that the interest rate on the financing as I said is 100 to 150 basis points lower it will also save us the cost next year of renewing joint venture 1 which is maturing which would've been probably well over EUR 1 million.
So interest rate-wise we'll save money.
The second thing is the elimination of the joint venture structures which will: a cost money to do; but b take time will save us somewhere between EUR 1.5 million and EUR 3 million so $3 million to $5 million.
And that benefit will start to flow in to 2012.
The second part the other thing to consider is that the cash flow post refinancing most of the cash flow in Shurgard Europe will be amortizing that new loan.
Research Division</strong> And how do you think about the ownership between you and the initial investor in terms of go forward? Does it -- I guess does this refinancing push us towards the simplification or taking it public or merging it into an existing public company I guess? What is it that you should've referenced this simplified ownership structure in the press release? Well I think what you should take away is that when we first acquired Shurgard Europe we had I think a EUR 350 million mortgage debt on all the wholly-owned properties and the joint venture properties were encumbered by these 2 syndicated credit facilities and debt was north of EUR 600 million.
And in the period of the last 4 years we're down to EUR 200 million third-party debt which was -- will be amortized rapidly and we simplified the ownership structure to where now Shurgard Europe owns 100% of its properties with no mortgages on them.
Research Division</strong> And so you made it more so from equity in the assets rather than a corporate-type transaction? Yes well we've greatly simplified the structure.
Going forward the overhead associated with operating that structure and certainly position the -- whether we decide to go public or whatever we decide to do it's a much much cleaner structure a much more simplified and much less leveraged structure going forward than it was 4 years ago.
Research Division</strong> And just one last one.
Just on the dividend where are you relative to the $0.95 dividend in terms of ratcheting up from a taxable net income perspective especially with the redemption of the preferreds coming in the fourth quarter? Michael this is John.
Certainly it puts pressure on our dividend because you know us.
We generally our policy has been to distribute the minimum amount required to maintain our REIT status.
Taking out these preferreds puts pressure on it -- on us as well as improved property operations continue to put pressure on it.
But at the end of the day our Board of Directors makes the decision as to what our dividend is going to be predicated upon what we have to do to maintain our REIT status.
So we'll see what happens next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sounded like Ron you and Dave kind of talked about the current outlook for the acquisition market being slower.
Just curious if you look ahead do you feel like it's going to remain slow for a while or do you feel like it will pick up do you feel like you'll continue to find more opportunities on kind of a value add lease upside than buying stabilized properties? I think we'll -- there's still a lot of CMBS and mortgage debt maturing over the next couple of years.
One of our great sources of acquisitions for the last couple years has been foreclosures and I think given where pricing is in the marketplace I think we'll continue to see good flow into 2012.
David would you add anything different to that? No I wouldn't.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
Actually I just wanted to ask a similar question.
Are there any specific portfolios of size that you see coming down the pipeline the next couple years kind of like a simply self storage type of deal? Or AA America [ph]? Tied to the CMBS market I guess not AA America in that example but maybe some underwater portfolios coming due? Well you got to keep in mind Ki if the property value is materially lower than the mortgage it's really the bank's decision as to what to do and when to do it.
If there's equity in the portfolio then it's really the owner's decision when to do it.
And we know all the large regional operators across the country.
We're in dialogue with them.
They know us.
So when they decide to sell or think about selling I'm sure they will -- we'll be in contact with them.
And then did you have a chance to look at that acquisition in New York Metro area that you did? Did we look at it in detail? No.
Or I mean have a chance to bid on it I guess is what I'm getting to.
No.
Your final question comes from the line of Paul Adornato with BMO Capital Markets.
Sorry if I missed this.
Did you mention where street rates are versus in-place rents and what trends to expect? Paul we had mentioned earlier that street rates are about 4% to 6% higher on a year-over-year basis at the end of October.
Street rates as compared to in-place rents at the end of October our street rates were about 3% higher than in-place and that compares to last year where it was about flat.
Okay and then just one more.
Do you still spend on Yellow Pages and what are your thoughts on Yellow Page spend? Paul you ought to go back because I kind of touched on that twice in previous questions on Yellow Pages.
That was our final question.
I'd now like to turn the floor back over for any closing remarks.
Okay I want to thank everybody for attending our conference this afternoon.
We look forward to talking to you next quarter and for some of you we'll see you in a couple weeks in Dallas at the NAREIT Conference.
Until then we'll talk to you next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Public Storage Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Clem Teng.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter earnings call.
Here with me today are Ron Havner and John Reyes.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this conference call are forward-looking statements subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.
These risks and other factors that could adversely affect our business and future results are described in today's earnings press release and in our reports filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of February 24 2012 and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A reconciliation to GAAP of the non-GAAP financial measures we are providing on this call is included in our earnings press release.
You can find our press release SEC reports and an audio webcast replay of this conference call on our website at www.publicstorage.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to John Reyes.
Thank you Clem.
Our fourth quarter core FFO per share was $1.66 compared to $1.45 last year a 15% increase.
Five items contributed to this growth: First our same-store net operating income increased by 6.1% adding $0.09 per share; nonsame-store properties provided $0.03 per share; buying affiliated partnership interest in the third quarter added $0.02; our investment in Shurgard Europe added $0.02 per share driven primarily by Shurgard's first quarter acquisition of the remaining interest in 2 joint ventures; and lower financing cost added $0.05 per share.
We recently completed several capital transactions in the first quarter.
We issued $460 million of 5.9% preferred stock a record low coupon rate for us.
We also announced the redemption of 3 preferred series totaling $357 million having a blended rate of 6.75%.
There will be a charge recorded in the first quarter associated with redemptions of about $13 million or $0.08 per share.
As a result of recent capital transactions preferred dividends are expected to be about $4 million lower in the first quarter.
In November Shurgard Europe completed the refinancing of its joint venture loans with a new EUR 215 million term loan.
This new loan which will mature in November of 2014 has an interest rate of about 125 basis points lower than the joint venture loans.
We also extended the maturity date of our 9% loan to Shurgard Europe to February 2015.
We expect nominal paydowns on our loan in 2012.
We increased our quarterly dividend to $1.10 per share representing an increase of 16%.
Since 2007 our dividend has more than doubled.
Our consistent long-term dividend policy has been to distribute only our taxable income.
With that I will now turn it over to Ron.
Thank you John.
The fourth quarter benefited from higher occupancy and better pricing.
Our same-store movements were up 2% year-over-year in the quarter offset by higher move-outs of 3%.
By the end of January 2012 occupancy in-place rents and asking rents were all higher than the same period last year.
In Q4 all of our markets achieved positive revenue growth.
The Detroit and Dallas markets led the country with growth of about 8%.
Los Angeles our largest market grew by 3%.
San Francisco our second largest market increased by 5.4% and the northeast markets grew by 6.1%.
Given these positive trends in occupancies and rates we expect our Q1 media spend will be about $1 million lower.
Overall we had a solid 2011.
Our same-store properties generated NOI growth of 6% and we achieved record high occupancies of 91.1% for the year.
We acquired about $500 million of various property interests and reduced leverage both debt and preferred by another $500 million.
We have positive momentum going into 2012.
With that operator let's open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Christy McElroy of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I realize that you wouldn't give specific guidance on this but I'm wondering given the fundamental trends appear to be slowing in the European portfolio I'm wondering if you could talk about expectations for performance this year? Do you think that revenue growth can remain positive in 2012? And can you talk about the success that you've had pushing existing customer rents in Europe versus what you've been able to do in the U.S.? Okay Christy while I think that in 2012 we'll have a pretty challenging operating environment in Europe whether we have positive revenue or NOI growth I'm not going to comment on that.
But I think it will be a challenging operating environment.
France our largest market has slowed down.
The bright spot I think for us in Europe in 2011 and going in 2012 is London.
We rolled out a new website new online pricing last year in London and we were able to drive occupancies to 87% in the fourth quarter up from 83.7% last year.
So a nice uptick in occupancy and you could tell at 87% I think that's higher than the overall portfolio average of about 85% for the quarter.
So bright spot is London.
Research Division</strong> Are you pushing existing customers rents? Yes.
We moved the pricing function for Europe here into Glendale in June of last year and we've got a nice pop on rental rate increases in Europe in Q3.
With respect to what we're going to do in Europe in 2012 John do you have any? We're going to continue to send out increases Christy just like what was happening last year probably send out more increases to existing tenants and probably a little more aggressive on the rates than what was done last year.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ron just would like to see if you want to comment on sort of your general outlook for the business in 2012 given sort of the juxtaposition of a seemingly better economy and a little bit of momentum for your business compared to maybe some concerns on oil and gas prices.
Well Michael I don't think I'm quite capable of commenting on the impact of oil prices on the economy or us.
What we're seeing in January and into February is good momentum on the business in terms of move-in volumes.
We're gaining some pricing power and our occupancies are up over last year which in January end of February.
So far we're into Q1 we're feeling pretty good.
I think the occupancy spread will narrow as the year goes along which we touched on I think in the last quarter.
So this will be a year of pricing and rental rate increases to existing customers but we're feeling pretty good.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> How have the last few months and maybe the beginning of 2012 compared to what you would have thought? Better than I would have thought.
John? Doing good? Yes.
So yes better than we anticipated Michael.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It looks like you're finding some stuff to buy.
I think you have about $40 million under contract.
Can you just talk about what you're seeing in the acquisition market? Are you seeing more product less product? Just any comments there.
Yes Michael we got David Doll here.
So I'll let him touch on that.
We are seeing an increased amount of owners coming to market at least testing the waters this year than we did in the fourth quarter of last year whether it be refinancing risk certainty for tax structure for closings in 2012 but we are beginning to see an increase in owners testing the waters.
Clearly the consolidation that we saw that has been talked about continues.
I think last year the 4 REITs closed on about $1 billion worth of transactions versus about $400 million the prior year.
So I think we'll see that trend continue into 2012.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> How would you characterize pricing? Does it feel like the sellers have what you consider to be realistic expectations? Sellers are struggling with deterioration to their operating results.
So cap rates about the same maybe a tick lower but clearly on trailing results.
Pricing hasn't changed that much.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim of Macquarie.
Given that your occupancy level is hitting that structural ceiling how does that make you think about being more aggressive on the street rate increases or sending out rent increase letters to your existing customers? Does that make you more aggressive? And also have you thought about switching to not just sending out in March but maybe a rolling year type of plan? Ki we have been more aggressive on our street rates for the most part.
I think what maybe you'll see us is turning back down on the discounting somewhat as we move forward.
In terms of increases to existing tenant base I would say that we're probably going to be pretty consistent with what we did in 2011.
We had sent out more letters than we had the prior year and the average increase was about 8% 8.5%.
So I think you should see that we'll probably continue that policy.
Will we change to a more of a rolling year? No.
Okay.
And just the second question.
It's been over a year I think since your A-America transaction.
Could you just comment on the returns that you've seen from that portfolio of purchase and what kind of growth you've been able to pull out of that acquisition? I could tell you that the returns on that portfolio for the year were -- for this past year were approximately 8.5% and there's a number of properties that are still relatively going to fill up.
I think the average occupancy of that portfolio I think for the fourth quarter was somewhere in the neighborhood of about 84%.
So we still haven't yet gotten it to where our same-store portfolio is performing.
Most of that is here in Los Angeles.
So there's still more room to grow on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Swaroop Yalla of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering your realized rent moderated slightly this quarter.
Last quarter it was 4% year-on-year -- it's 3.4%.
Just wondering is that because of some increase in discounting or is the moderation you're seeing in street rates? Are you talking about the sequential trend between third quarter and fourth quarter? Research Division</strong> No.
Just the year-on-year realized rent per square foot.
Well the realized rent per square foot in Q4 was up 3.4%.
For the year it was up 2.8%.
So rent it moved up in Q4.
So not sure if I know what your question is.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
What I meant was in the third quarter it was up 4% year-on-year.
It's still growing.
I was just wondering if this was a slight moderation in the growth.
One of the things that happened in the third quarter is we sent out a huge volume of rental rate increase letters which had a significant impact of bumping that rent -- realized rent per square foot during the third quarter.
But as time marches on some of those tenants move out and they turn over generally in the fourth quarter.
And so you'll see kind of a rent rolldown that happened which is what you're noting.
So that growth rate has moderated as a result of it.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
One question turning to expenses.
Your peers talked about expenses expected to be higher compared to the last 2 years.
Are you seeing similar pressure from property tax increases in your portfolio for 2012? I could comment on property taxes.
Definitely property taxes we believe are going to be higher than we saw in this past year.
In fact we are internally budgeting that property tax this will probably be up somewhere in the neighborhood of 4% to 4.5%.
So definitely higher than the 2% that we saw for fiscal 2011.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I'm on the line with Jordan Sadler as well.
Just a quick follow-up question maybe for David on acquisitions.
How would you characterize the quality of what you're seeing now versus what's been transacted throughout the industry as a whole over the last 12 months or so? I don't think there's a change in the quality.
The transactions that occurred over the last year were generally relatively good portfolios in major markets.
And I think that's what you'll see at least us focusing on in the coming year as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just for Ron just a little bit of a bigger picture question in terms of your portfolio.
Are you seeing any changes to the quality of the renters in your portfolio? Anything you can point to in there maybe willingness to take higher prices or any change in their length of stay or anything along those lines? I would say no.
Last year as John touched on we sent out more rental rate increase letters.
We were a little more aggressive on the rates in terms of what those rate increases were.
And yet our percentage of customers in the portfolio greater than one year end of Q4 at about 56% the same as last year.
So we've not seen an uptick in the churn rate of our longer staying tenants.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Ron you touched a little bit on street rates and with your occupancy elevated I'm assuming you're going to be pretty aggressive in dialing back concessions.
Can you give us a sense of what your expectations are for street rates in 2012? This is John.
I mean we can't give you a sense because we don't know.
We kind of play it by ear trying to maintain a certain occupancy level and revenue growth.
So we will fluctuate our street rates as needed and our discounting will likewise also fluctuate as we go by.
So we can't sit here and give you kind of some projection or estimate of what we think street rates will be.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you give us a sense of what they were in January how far ahead? They were up probably about -- January is we're up about 7.5%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow-up question can you talk a little bit about your capital spending plans for 2012 between recurring maintenance as well as any redevelopment plans? The maintenance CapEx Mike it should be about the same as 2011 maybe slightly lower and then the -- so that's mainly CapEx.
R&amp;M should be flat to slightly down in 2012.
And in redevelopment I think we've got $25 million $30 million of stuff in the hopper right now but we'll have some more starts going on during the year.
So probably $40 million of redevelopments will actually -- the money will out the door this year.
4 or 5 of those redevelopments are the A-American properties that someone asked about earlier.
We've gotten the plans done and those will be under redevelopment this year.
And so those are some of the bigger properties with occupancy opportunities for the balance -- later in 2012 and into 2013.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wolfe of Citi.
Research Division</strong> It's Michael Bilerman speaking.
Ron can you just talk about you said occupancy was higher January February but you didn't specify how much over relative to last year.
Can you just sort of give us a number of where occupancy is trending? Well I'll give you January Michael.
January we ended at 89.8% versus 89.1% the prior year so up 0.7%.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess your comment was that those increases should moderate during the year but be offset by higher rental rates effectively to come out to a growth profile that's probably similar as you start baking in the increases you had from last year also.
I'm not sure I follow Mike.
Baking in the increases from last year? Research Division</strong> Well you've increased rents during 2011.
Obviously there's a full year effect of some of those increases if the tenants stay in 2012? Yes.
Well I guess there's 3 or 4 things Mike if I understand your question correctly.
So we're going through Q1.
Today we're at higher occupancies.
January I gave you.
So I mean these Q1 occupancies should be higher than last year.
We've got rental rate increases which we're starting to send out.
John touched on it about the same as last year.
Pricing is up.
Someone asked about that what the pricing was up 8% 10%.
And then the fourth variable will be promotional discounts which we will probably dial down as we get into the summer months because we'll be at a higher occupancy level and feel better about it.
Dial down discounts because we're basically full.
That will be the variable that we'll play with as the year progresses.
Research Division</strong> And then just -- one just on global sort of expansion.
You obviously have the stake in Europe.
Is there any opportunity at all to consolidate Public Storage Canada? And I assume you can't go into that market other than through that vehicle or maybe you could but that would I guess kind of strange or any other sort of global markets that you're looking at? Well we're presented with opportunities from a variety of portfolios around the world so we're always thinking about those.
With respect to Canada that portfolio is owned by the Hughes family.
It's really up to them whether they want to sell or not.
But our arrangement with them does not preclude us from going into Canada.
They have the right to use the Public Storage name but we could go into Canada as well and also use the Public Storage name.
So there's no exclusivity in that arrangement for them with respect to Canada.
Research Division</strong> And do they have any desire to trigger a sale and how does that process work? I mean obviously Wayne and the family have sold stock in the company and reduced their stake.
Is there a desire also to reduce the ownership and do you see that as a sort of near-term opportunity? I don't know what their plans are Michael.
Your next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy of UBS.
Research Division</strong> John I just wanted to follow up on something you were talking about in your opening comments.
You said that the loan triggered Europe's new EUR 215 million term loan with Wells 125 basis points lower.
Is that lower than the 9% loan that you currently have with them? No it's lower than the 2 joint venture loans that were repaid off.
Research Division</strong> Okay so what was that? I'm sorry.
The rate on the new loan is EURIBOR plus 175.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you also talked about nominal paydowns in 2012.
I assume you were talking about the EUR 311 million loan.
Can you just quantify how much you expect and are there any prepayment penalties associated with that? On the EUR 311 million loan which is our 9% loan the loan at Shurgard Europe owes to Public Storage.
There is no prepayment penalty.
They can pay that off whenever they have the desire to.
The repayments will probably not be any more than EUR 10 million to EUR 15 million in any one year until the Wells Fargo loan has been repaid.
Wells Fargo is the one who provided the new loan to them.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My questions have actually been asked.
Your next question comes from the line of Paula Poskon of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> What portion of the preferreds outstanding are actually callable in 2012 and what's your appetite to continue doing that? We have quite a bit that are still callable Paula.
Roughly about almost $1 billion of preferreds are still callable and that's after we've called the 3 series that I mentioned in my prepared remarks.
To the extent that coupons continue to be driven down or stay low we will continue to try to refinance some preferreds.
We do have a preferred that although not callable yet will be callable in July.
The $172 million at 7% and all other things being equal we expect to call that preferred if we can continue to issue preferreds at the levels we've just been doing.
Research Division</strong> And on the pending acquisition are those assets stabilized or is there some lease-up opportunity? And could you just discuss the asset quality? Do they need any investment capital? Paula this is Ron.
No they're not stabilized.
I think the blended occupancy is about 65% so there's uplift on occupancy there.
And then I think we're going to -- assuming we consummate the transaction put in about $1 million $1.5 million of capital into the property.
Research Division</strong> And then just finally you said that 2012 would be the year of the rate.
What do you think the biggest contributor to revenue growth will be this year? Will it be increases on existing customers or higher street rents? It could be -- I touched on -- someone else asked the question Paula.
Street rates higher street rates take a long time to kind of roll through the portfolio.
The rental rate increases obviously have a more immediate impact.
Promotional discounts and changing promotional discounts have a very immediate impact in terms of revenue growth.
So we've got all 3 of those plus we'll get some occupancy uptick this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Ron how much higher do you think market rents need to be for you to start putting some shovels in the ground on new construction? Ross the development is a market-by-market question so it depends on which market.
But I would say at this time we have no plans for development.
Research Division</strong> Do you see anybody else in the industry taking a look at that now? I think the guys that CubeSmart bought their portfolio from have got a couple of properties under development in New York.
I think the boroughs there are several guys out there developing.
There's a couple of guys down in Texas.
That's about it.
It's pretty light in terms of development activity and I don't think any of the public companies have any plans for development.
I haven't listened to their calls but I don't think any of them are planning to develop.
Research Division</strong> When you try to model out and take a look at potential projects is it just that the yields are just obviously coming out too low at this stage? Well Ross the development if you think about development in self-storage it's not something that you undertake lightly.
If you're going to do a development program you have to get site acquisition people.
That takes time for them to find properties.
It takes 6 to 9 months to build the properties and 2 to 3 years to lease them up.
So if we started development today it will be 4 to 5 years before you really saw the stabilized income from those development activities.
So it's a big decision in terms of undertaking a development program.
Research Division</strong> That's sort of the basis of my question it's been what a good 5 years really since we've seen any meaningful starts in the self-storage sector.
And at some point here we're going to need more storage in this country.
But it sounds like to your comment that you don't necessarily think that there's going to be such a wave of demand that's going to require new supply anytime soon.
I'm trying to sort of gauge how development fits into an overall demand outlook for your industry.
Well I think if you go back in history over the last decade most of that new development came from local operators not from the public companies.
While we had some I think extra space had some -- as a percentage of new supply over the last decade it was a very small fraction of the total new supply coming in the market were from public companies.
So you got the local guys who were there who were able to get very attractive financing either from banks or in the CMBS market.
And I don't see that source of financing coming back anytime soon much different than the apartment guys that have Fannie and Freddie to finance apartments.
That simply doesn't exist in the self-storage business and I've heard nothing to indicate that that market is coming back anytime soon.
So to speak a great supplier the local operator is very capital constrained right now.
And so for the industry it's great in terms of supply demand.
You could see everyone's having a higher demand for their product better pricing with very little supply on the horizon in the near term.
And I would even say the supply longer term it will be challenging to add meaningful new product to the industry.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess one other question is as you look at the performance of your company let's call it the same-store portfolio heading into the recession and now out of the recession and you compare that to what PS Business Parks have done over the same timeframe does that cause you to rethink whether or not Public Storage should maintain its investment in PS Business Parks? No.
Your next question is a question from the line of Ki Bin Kim of Macquarie.
So to follow-up on Ross's question how about redevelopment? I mean a lot of your assets don't have climate control maybe appropriately or maybe not but could you comment on it's probably much easier to do redevelopment and if you can comment on how much volume there opportunity there is in your portfolio and what kind of returns those could possibly generate? Ki we're constantly looking at redevelopment on our portfolio.
We've been doing that for the last 5 or 7 years.
I think on average we probably put $40 million $50 million a year into redevelopment a year.
It's a nice add-on.
I think we break out in the press release or in the Q how much incremental income we're getting from redevelopment and it's quite a nice source of growth for us.
Unfortunately it's not in the billions.
It's in the $50 million to $100 million if we're really cooking along here.
The returns are quite exceptional well into the double digits as you can imagine because there's no land costs and the incremental costs of building is somewhere between $30 and $50 a foot.
The great thing is just not enough of it and it's also very low risk because you know what the market is what the rental rates are for the space that you're redoing.
So can we expect that to maybe even go $40 million to $50 million to $50 million to $100 million? We're doing as much as we can as fast as we can.
And is that mostly just climate control type of redevelopment projects? Climate control adds a little bit.
The bigger opportunities take out a land parcel take out a single story drive up building and tear it down and go multistory and re-densify the property.
That's the bigger -- I don't know if there's a bigger opportunity but that's the bigger return bigger investment and where you get more meaningful return on the capital.
Okay that's helpful.
And just one last quick question.
Given your kind of not just you guys I guess the whole industry's push on streets rates and sending out rent increase letters has the average customer profile changed at all? And maybe if you could -- probably some color on maybe the average of length of stay? Well Ki in terms of churn rate we haven't seen an uptick in that discernible.
And as I touched on at Q4 the percentage of customers in our portfolio greater than the year was the same as it was in 2010.
So despite the more aggressive rental rate increases that John touched on for 2011 we haven't seen an erosion of our long-term customer base.
And what is that percentage of greater than the year? 56%.
Your final question comes from the line of Michael Knott of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just curious how recent sales transactions sort of measure up to your estimate of replacement cost? Are we still trading at a discount or are we getting closer to replacement cost? And not necessarily just for the deals you've bought but I'd be happy to hear your commentary on that but also just more broadly.
Michael you're baiting me here.
I'm going to be diplomatic and just say most of the stuff well I know all the stuff we bought in 2011 and what we're looking at in 2012 is below replacement cost.
The stuff and the more distressed it is in terms of a bank liquidation or whatever the farther below replacement cost we'd get.
I think some of the well-marketed portfolios higher quality stuff have been demonstrably above what our estimate would be of replacement cost.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So on average any broad brush takeaway or is it just too asset specific and market specific? I think it's buyer specific.
You have a follow-up question from the line of Michael Mueller of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just one last one.
What's involved in a self-storage redevelopment that's different from what's picked up in CapEx? The difference Mike in that is that if it's a redevelopment there's no added square footage.
We're improving the infrastructure of the property climate control.
If we do redevelopment we've added square footage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So these are all pretty much expansions when you talk about redevelopment? Correct.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Clem Teng for any closing remarks.
I want to thank everybody for attending our conference this morning and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Thanks.
Thank you.
This concludes your conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Public Storage First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Clem Teng.
Mr.
Teng please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our first quarter earnings call.
Here with me today are Ron Havner and John Reyes.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this conference call are forward-looking statements subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.
These risks and other factors that could adversely affect our business and future results are described in today's earnings press release and in our reports filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of today May 4 2012 and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A reconciliation to GAAP of the non-GAAP financial measures we are providing on this call is included in our earnings press release.
You can find our press release SEC reports and audio webcast replay of this conference call on our website at www.publicstorage.com.
I'll turn the call over to John Reyes.
Thank you Clem.
Our first quarter core FFO per share was $1.44 compared to $1.28 last year a 13% increase.
Five items contributed to this growth.
First our same-store net operating income increased by 6.3% adding $0.09 per share.
The non-same-store properties added $0.02.
Last year's acquisition of affiliated partnership interest added $0.02.
Lower financing cost added $0.02.
And ancillary operations primarily our tenant reinsurance business added $0.01.
In the press release we changed some of our presentation.
First we increased the size of our same-store pools to include properties that we have operated for the last 3 years at a stabilized occupancy level.
For our U.S.
same stores we increased the pool by 10.
For Shurgard Europe the pool is increased by 13.
We also modified our same-store expense classification to highlight other direct property costs supervisory payroll and allocated overhead.
Other self-storage companies may include some or all of these cost synergies in their G&amp;A expenses.
While we modified the presentation we did not change what is included in our same-store expenses.
We completed several capital transactions in 2012.
We issued $923 million of preferred securities with a blended rate of 5.8% and redeemed $833 million with an average rate of 6.7%.
We had about $4 million of negative carry in the first quarter associated with these issuances.
In addition on July 2 we will redeem $173 million of our 7% Series and preferred stock.
We expect to record an EITF charge of approximately $5.4 million in the second quarter.
Assuming no further issuances preferred dividends are expected to be about $7 million lower in the second quarter as compared to last year.
Our weighted average preferred coupon is now 6.3%.
With that I will now turn it over to Ron.
Thank you John.
First quarter benefited from solid demand resulting in higher occupancy and better pricing.
Our same-store movements were up 2% year-over-year offset in part by higher move-outs of 5%.
At the end of April occupancy in-place rents and asking rents were all higher than the same period last year despite lower media spend for the period.
In Q1 all of our markets achieved positive revenue growth.
Dallas Denver and Detroit markets led the country with revenue growth over 7%.
The Miami market was second at 6.3%.
Los Angeles our largest market grew 3.5%; and San Francisco our second-largest market increased revenues 6% for the quarter.
Given these positive trends in occupancies and rates we expect our Q2 media spend will be comparable to last year.
In Europe same-store rental revenues were flat to last year as higher realized rents were offset by lower occupancy.
We did improve the year-over-year growth occupancy gap from 1.2% at the end of the year to 0.7% at the end of March.
Operating expenses were lower resulting in NOI growth of about 1%.
We continue to expect a challenging operating environment in Europe for the remainder of the year.
During the second quarter we entered into contracts to purchase 4 facilities with about 300 000 square feet for $46 million.
With that operator let's open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at your occupancy trends in Q4 you averaged 90.2% and then ended the year at 89.6%.
So a natural sort of seasonal trend toward year end.
But then this quarter it looks like you were able to reverse course pretty early in the year and actually show a 10 basis point increase average occupancy in Q1 versus Q4 which is pretty abnormal in this industry.
You've talked in the past about possibly trying to reduce some of the seasonality in occupancy during the slower months.
So I'm wondering is this Q1 trend reflective of that? And if so maybe you can provide a little color on your efforts on that front.
Well Christy I think last quarter in the third quarter we did say after we had record occupancies during last summer that we would be focusing on trying to mitigate the seasonal downturn as you pointed out.
And so we did that in Q1.
We were also doing it in Q4.
And as we move into the rental season you're going to see that occupancy gap narrow into Q2 and Q3 and we are going to be happy if we just really comp last year.
Research Division</strong> Is it a function of how you're discounting or how you're setting rents? How are you able to sort of reduce that seasonality? It's all that Christy.
It's the rents it's the discounts.
It's the level of advertising spend be it on television or on the Internet.
So it's all the above and working in concert.
We're trying to maintain an even keel of occupancy as best we can granted there's still going to be seasonality.
But I think what you're seeing is a little bit of that smoothing out on a sequential basis looking from the fourth quarter to the first quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on expenses.
I was just wondering if you could comment about the increase that we saw this quarter not the 1.9% increases is real concerning but we saw declines from the other storage REITs this quarter and a lot of the pressure looked like stemmed from real estate taxes and payroll and some of the other overhead that you broke out this quarter.
Should we expect to see sort of similar year-over-year increases on those lines throughout the year and are we starting to see some pressure build on expenses a bit? I'll pick a couple of the expenses and John can take a couple.
Probably the biggest swing item is R&amp;M and R&amp;M has 2 categories.
You've got what I'll call ongoing R&amp;M the usual kind of painting fixing gates.
That kind of stuff.
And we accelerated that in Q1.
So that was up due to the mild weather.
That was up about $2.5 million.
And you can see that both on that line as well as if you go further back in the press release the maintenance CapEx was also up about 20% for the quarter over prior year also due to mild weather.
Offsetting that in the R&amp;M line was about $1.2 million $1.3 million reduction in snow removal.
So you've got 2 different things going on there.
Our best guess is that as the year goes on the ongoing R&amp;M will moderate.
So that we hopefully in the year flat to maybe slightly down year-over-year and realize some of the benefit from the snow removal.
The supervisory payroll is higher headcount on DMs versus last year as well as some state unemployment taxes.
And then the allocated overhead is also slightly higher headcount.
We expect the allocated overhead growth to moderate as we go through the balance of the year.
Property taxes? On property taxes we were up about I think about $1.7 million on property taxes and about $600 000 of that $1.7 million is due to the fact that last year when we bought partnership interest in affiliated partnerships that resulted in basically a technical termination of those partnerships which meant that -- let me back up here primarily California properties.
So with the technical termination of the partnerships it resulted in a step up basis for property tax purposes and therefore increased property taxes.
That was built into the acquisition and the yield when we bought those interests but what you're seeing here is now a $600 000 a quarter bump in property taxes just as a result of doing that transaction last year.
But aside from that we still think property taxes are going to be up.
From our budgets we're still budgeting somewhere in the neighborhood of 3.5% to 4% for the entire year.
Our next question comes from the line of the Eric Wolfe with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Michael Bilerman here.
Ron can you talk -- go into a little bit more detail on Europe and sort of what you're seeing on the ground? And I recognize that occupancy I think you said came up a little bit.
I know it is down year-over-year but it sounded like you had positive comments.
But can you just talk a little bit what the trends are? Sure Michael.
Europe has got a wide variety of things depending on the country.
Let me try to break down the same-store NOI for you by country.
Belgium was up 6.3%.
Occupancy was up 0.5% to 86.5% for the quarter.
Holland which has been our weakest market for probably 1.5 years NOI was down 5.5% and occupancy in that portfolio is at 76% versus 78% last year.
Germany NOI was up 22% and occupancy was down a point to 89%.
France occupancy was down to 84% down 1.5%.
NOI was flat.
Sweden NOI was down 4% occupancy down 2.5%.
Denmark occupancy down 2.5% to 83% but NOI was up 10% mainly due to changes in advertising.
And then the U.K.
our occupancy was up nicely to 86.8% for the quarter.
That's up 3.8% over the last year and NOI was up about 2%.
So it's a whole bunch of things going plus and minus across the continent.
Overall Europe's [indiscernible] and there's a lot of things going on in Europe and that's why our expectations are pretty modest for the year.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And is there any other sort of changes in terms of the entity itself and how you're thinking about it and sort of the more medium to longer-term goal in Europe? Well our longer-term goal I don't know whether I mentioned it or not.
In January we had our new CEO started in Europe.
He's doing a great job.
He's out on the field a lot.
Our immediate term the immediate focus is really on operations especially in markets like Holland and Sweden where we've gotten a little soft.
But Holland's been a really big challenge and so we're really focused on that market.
We've done some things on the Internet in the U.K.
both Internet marketing and on the website.
And that appears to be working.
So we're very encouraged by that and we'll continue to focus on that.
From a balance sheet management standpoint we're really trying to delever Europe over the next 12 to 18 months so that we hopefully can get it investment-grade rated and find alternative sources of financing rather than the banks.
Long term I mean we're very positive on Europe and I hope in 1 year or 2 to be talking about growth in additional facilities and/or some development in Europe.
Your next question comes from the line of Smedes Rose with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could talk about anything you're seeing on the acquisition front just in terms of deal flow I guess and other sectors we're hearing that that's picking up considerably and I'm just wondering if you're seeing anything along the same lines.
Yes we're up.
We did about $40 million $45 million in Q1 and that was a short sale.
And we've got another $40 million or $45 million in the queue that's really not bank foreclosure kind of stuff.
But we're seeing the pipeline from the I'll call it short sales or bank foreclosure increase nicely.
And so we're much more encouraged by the acquisition flow where we are today versus where we were last year.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And has pricing kind of I guess stabilized or moving up or down either way? It's a really bifurcated market.
The stuff that is in the short sales with the banks.
You're buying properties that have weak occupancies not great NOI.
And so it's a price per pound kind of acquisition the one we did in Q1 I think was about $80 a foot which is probably $30 to $40 a foot below replacement cost.
But only had $1 million or so of NOI.
There's a lot of upside there.
But going in cap rates pretty low.
The stuff that's in the open market trading if there's a broker associated with it you're buying more in a stabilized or current NOI basis and those cap rates have come down.
But it's a more on an NOI and for us also price per pound.
But those are much closer to replacement costs.
The next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
Just following up on a question about Europe.
Is your pricing and advertising strategy the same in Europe as it is in U.S.? And if you could also comment on if the customers are inherently different there? If I had a chart for you on customer duration U.S.
versus Europe you would see that they're exactly the same that they behave exactly the same to promotional discounts.
So I would say that everything we've been able to analyze over in Europe and study with the customer base it's the same type of usage same kind of length of stay that we have in the U.S.
Last year we moved the pricing for product in Europe here to Glendale.
And so we've integrated that into our pricing program here in the U.S.
What we do in Europe though is different.
I touched on what we did in the U.K.
on the Internet side.
We're rolling out new websites across different platforms in Europe each country.
We're not able to really use TV effectively in Europe.
So that's a big difference between the U.S.
and Europe.
But we will be able to use the web and I think the Internet marketing in Europe as effectively as we do here in the U.S.
What are your internal projections on how much that will benefit new customers coming in or whichever measure you're looking at? Well we're really trying to drive customer flow.
So the real tangible benefit as I pointed out earlier is I think the U.K.
is a pretty good demonstration where occupancy has gone from 83.6% last year to 86.8%.
Rates were up slightly and NOI is positive.
And that in large part as a direct result of the website and the different pricing and promotional strategies that we've applied from the U.S.
over to the U.K.
market.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to ask Clem about the Buffalo head comment that he was quoted on in a story last week.
I found it interesting.
Ron how do you feel about the outlook for the rest of 2012 now compared to maybe late last year early this year? How do you feel like your outlook has changed if it has? It's really hasn't.
I think we had a great quarter.
And we're going into Q2 with higher occupancy.
So I'm really pleased with that we were able to actually gain occupancy in Q1.
Rates are up street rates are up in-place rents are up and I think as we go through the summer you'll see us moderating the promotional discounts I hope.
And so I'm optimistic on 2012 as I was 3 months ago.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up to Michael's question on Europe the public companies there traded big discounts to NAV.
And so my question for you do you see that as more of an opportunity for you or do you feel like if it's more permanent that it's kind of a hurdle for Shurgard Europe's longer-term cost of capital and maybe the odds of ever being able to take that public at a reasonable cost to capital? Michael Europe markets are cyclical.
And so Europe is down today.
Will it return to pricing of real estate stocks at NAV or above? Probably.
We're not predicating our business plan in Europe on that.
We're really focused on as I touched on deleveraging Europe so we can hopefully attain investment-grade rating and then do something either in the U.S.
private placement market or in the Eurobond market.
And again an alternative source of financing rather than the European banks which I don't view -- we really John and I have never really viewed them as a prominent source of capital.
But given the situation over in Europe over the last year we definitely don't view them as a prominent source of capital.
So we really need to get investment-grade rated over there and get a different kind of financing.
And once that's in place then we really have -- Europe generates EUR 110 million EUR 115 million EBITDA.
We've got plenty of cash to amortize a term loan and have capital to grow.
The next question comes from the line of Paula Poskon of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Ron you've said in the past that you thought the third-party management business kind of wasn't worth it the effort given the margin that you can often get.
Given the dynamics in the sector now where the mom and pop shops are really coming under increasing pressure relative to the institutional players taking more and more share are you revisiting that at all? Paula first of all we've done third-party management for years.
I think we have 30 or 40 properties that we manage for others.
We just haven't -- it's been more like a short movie for us versus a feature-length film for some of the other guys.
We have looked at it.
We continue to look at it.
Our biggest concern on third-party management is cannibalization of our own properties.
But I would not rule out expansion of the third-party business.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Going back here for a second Ron I was just wondering if you could follow-up a little bit on your comments on Europe and the deleveraging that you'd like to do? Maybe put a framework around it in terms of how you think you could come about what sort of metrics you're looking to move from and to? Yes Mike.
As I mentioned earlier you think of Europe as about EUR 110 million to EUR 115 million EBITDA.
Our debt in Europe is about EUR 525 million considering the Public Storage loan as well as the Wells Fargo loan that's over there.
So to get investment-grade we need to get that to about 4x to 4.5X debt to EBITDA.
That will take us about 18 to 24 months to amortize the debt down to that level.
And that's really the kind of metric kind of the #1 metric that we need to achieve to walk into the rating agencies to then get an investment-grade rating.
With the investment-grade rating then we can evaluate as I said the U.S.
private placement market or the Eurobond market.
It's really taking the existing cash and amortizing down to a 4x to 4.5x debt to EBITDA.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay so it's nothing on the equity side nothing on the sale side it's really just use of cash flow? No no.
Europe's may not be growing very fast but it's generating lots of free cash flow which is amortizing down that debt.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
I don't know if I missed this but did you comment on or could you comment on what you think cap rates are for good assets and good markets? And secondly with your answer in mind do you think the private market cap rates are just plainly wrong given that self storage isn't really a major food group? Well Ki the second part of your question is probably a little bit of a lengthy answer for a conference call.
I can't really talk to you about that.
You can call me afterwards.
As I touched on earlier with respect to cap rates there's 2 buckets of that hedge coming to market.
One are the bank liquidations the foreclosures the short sales.
And two are the more established properties where you've got some partners that can't agree or someone wants a liquidity event and there's marketed or they picked 3 or 4 players to go bid the property.
And those are what I would call more of a cap rate kind of buy and that depends on the market as you mentioned.
So somewhere between 6 and 7 on a stabilized basis.
The foreclosure stuff I mean we're buying stuff that's break even losing money or 1% yield on day one.
Does that help you in terms of what we're seeing in the market? Yes definitely.
So no preview on the follow-up question? No.
You can call me afterwards.
Your next question comes from the line of Swaroop Yalla with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you can comment on the changes in the composition of self storage users? As we headed into the recession and as we we're coming out of recession specifically small business users homeowners who were downsizing to apartments and now maybe moving out to buy homes if you can comment on the composition.
I will tell you we've been asked this question many times and the response is basically the same.
We don't pool or survey our customer base as to whether they're small business large business residential or what have you.
So I can't sit here and tell you that the composition has changed one way or another.
And it's a very localized business and depending on where that self storage facility is located for example if it's located in a primarily residential area most of the customers are going to be residential.
If it's located in industrial area it's going to be -- probably be those industrial businesses that are using it.
But I can't tell you how it's changed because we simply don't ask.
We're just more focused on just getting in people to occupy space and pay rent.
Research Division</strong> So right now is there a way to find out what is the small business users in your...
No no no.
The next question comes from the line of Paula Poskon with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry if I missed this in your prepared comments.
Did you talk about the April trends where you finished up April? Yes Paula.
Hold on I'll give those to you.
I didn't give the exact numbers but I'll do that for you now.
April occupancy was 91.4% versus 91.3%.
Last year in-place rents were higher by about $0.05 $0.06 a foot and asking rents were up about $0.06 $0.07 a foot.
The next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering -- this is probably a question for John on the G&amp;A.
It looks like this quarter the number was quite a bit higher than the past few quarters' run rates and it was my understanding that in 2012 we'd see part of the comp package or the comp plan some of that burn off and theoretically lower G&amp;A a little bit? I was just wondering if you can just comment on if there's anything onetime what a better run rate is anything like that? Yes Mike.
The first quarter we paid out -- the big increase is probably due to higher bonuses that were paid out in the first quarter this year relative to the first quarter of last year.
As we move forward all things being equal assuming that we don't really do excluding acquisitions I should say.
And we think they probably be -- the run rate of G&amp;A for the full year will probably be approximately the same as last year probably a little bit less.
But I think last year we were at about $52 million.
So we're probably looking somewhere around there.
But I think it might be a little bit less than that.
Mike you've got about a $2 million uptick in Q1.
And for the year as John mentioned we'll probably be down $1 million or $2 million for the year.
So you've got a $4 million swing that's got to get amortized over the balance of the year excluding acquisition costs.
Our next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Ron I heard you say that asking rents were higher year-over-year in Q1.
What was the percentage change? Christy those were as of April.
I thought that was Paula with the question was April.
Research Division</strong> You said on a cents per square foot.
So it's less than 1%? Asking rents? Research Division</strong> Asking rents right? For April we're about $1.19 versus $1.13 or just over 5%.
Research Division</strong> For the month okay.
And then I heard -- you said at the beginning of the call the percentage increase in move-ins and I totally missed it.
Sure.
move-ins this is for the quarter Christy? Research Division</strong> Yes.
You want April? Research Division</strong> Both would be great.
Okay.
For the quarter move-ins were up 2%.
And for April move-ins were down 1%.
The next question comes from the line of Eric Wolfe with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups this is Michael Bilerman.
The stats you gave me for April those are end for April or those are weighted average for the month? I think these are end of month.
Research Division</strong> Those are end of month? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Shawn Weidmann's been on the job now 7 months and I think when you originally hired him you said you'd put him out in field for 6 months and figure things out.
So I guess after that time what's he come back with and what sort of initiatives and things as you're thinking about as he looks at the self storage business from the flower business? Well he's still on the field a lot.
So maybe he needs a little longer than 6 months.
But he's still out on the field a lot.
We didn't hire Shawn to come in here and reinvent the business.
But he's a good manager knows how to hire people and he's got a good head on his shoulders.
So I think what you should look for from Shawn is kind of a refinement of what we're doing and incrementally additive of value there in terms of refining our processes continuing to focus on execution customer service and hiring top talent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly on comp.
So PSB put in a new comp plan tied to -- in part to growth in NAV per share over 4 years.
And so I'm just curious at PSA are you thinking about a longer-term comp plan? I wasn't sure if one was in place and whether we should expect that at all.
Nothing this year Michael.
We've got some -- some are issues tied to revenue growth.
And if you recall to the -- if you went through the proxy for the last 3 years the senior and middle management team were tied to an RSU plan that was directly linked to same-store revenue growth.
Last year the first 2 years there was no payout under that plan and last year there was a 2-for-1 payout which is one of the reasons the G&amp;A spiked up last year and it's still at a somewhat elevated level this year.
But we have no -- nothing in the hopper right now for this year.
Research Division</strong> My guess is -- you're Chairman of the board of PSB right? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So as Chairman of the Board of PSB and in terms of instituting that plan for that company do you not feel like that's not apropos in terms of NAV growth for PSA? I'm just trying to figure out if it was good for one why is it good for the goose not good for the gander type of thing? Well and again that's a long conversation that I'm happy to have with you off-line.
But there's slightly different businesses between PSB and PSA.
And two PSB has not had a long-term incentive plan in place for the last 2 or 3 years.
Research Division</strong> So you don't view PSA as a more NAV growth story you view it as a top line...
No.
I view it definitely it as a good growth story.
One of the principal determinants of NAV growth at PSA is top line revenue for same stores.
That was our final question.
And now I'd like to turn the floor back over to Clem Teng for any closing remarks.
I want to thank everybody for attending our conference call this morning.
And we'll look forward to seeing some of you at NAREIT in a few weeks and also on the next quarter call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Maria and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Public Storage Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Clem Teng to begin.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our second quarter earnings call.
Here with me today are Ron Havner and John Reyes.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this conference call are forward-looking statements subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.
These risks and other factors that could adversely affect our business and future results are described in today's earnings press release and in our reports filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of today August 3 2012 and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A reconciliation to GAAP of the non-GAAP financial measures we are providing on this call is included in our earnings press release.
You can find our press release SEC reports and an audio webcast replay of this conference call on our website at www.publicstorage.com.
I'll turn the call over to John Reyes.
Thank you Clem.
Our second quarter core FFO per share was $1.62 compared to $1.43 last year a 13% increase.
Five items contributed to this growth.
First our same-store net operating income increased by 8.3% adding $0.12 per share; our non-same-store properties added $0.03; last year's acquisition of affiliated partnership interests added $0.02; lower financing costs added $0.04; ancillary operations primarily our tenant reinsurance business added $0.01.
Partially offsetting this was $0.03 per share from lower interest income.
We completed several capital transactions in the second quarter.
We issued $288 million of preferred securities with a rate of 5 5/8% and called for redemption $416 million with an average rate of 6.7%.
Assuming no further reissuances preferred dividends are expected to be about $8 million lower in the third quarter of 2012 as compared to last year.
With that I will now turn it over to Ron.
Thank you John.
The second quarter benefited from solid demand resulting in record-high occupancies and higher realized rents.
In Q2 we reduced media spend by 44% or about $1.5 million as well as promotional discounts.
Net customer acquisition costs declined as customer move-in volumes remained constant despite lower media and promotional discounts.
At the end of July 2012 occupancy asking rents and in-place rents were all higher than the same period last year.
In Q2 Denver and Charlotte markets led the country with revenue growth of 8.7% followed by Miami and Detroit at 6.6%.
Los Angeles our largest market grew 4.4%; and San Francisco our second largest market grew -- revenues increased by 6.2%.
Given the trends in our occupancies and rates we expect our Q3 media spend will be comparable to last year.
In Europe same-store NOI improved by 2% despite a challenging operating environment.
We recently completed the purchase of 5 facilities with about 377 000 square feet for $52 million.
We're currently under contract to acquire 2 more facilities for about $30 million.
With that operator let's open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Christy McElroy of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just in regards to Europe your occupancy has slipped a little bit overall even from Q1 but you've still been able to see some decent growth in realized rents.
I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit about your overall revenue management strategy there and what makes sense sort of given the different environment you're operating in versus the U.S.
Christy last year we had some really aggressive promotional discounts in a couple of markets which we did not do this year because the -- we kind of didn't get the benefit in terms of rate and promotional discounts versus move-in volume so we've moderated those this year.
So you've seen some degradation in occupancy and an uptick in the in-place rents and the rental revenue and lowered promotional discounts.
And that varies by market and the operating results vary greatly by market where on a revenue-growth basis.
France was down 1.6% on same-store basis whereas the U.K.
was up 3.5% and Belgium was up almost 7%.
So it varies by market.
So what you're seeing is a blend but the big picture is better pricing reduced discounts this year with some impact on move-in volume.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on the U.K.
Can you talk about how the VAT tax issue could potentially impact the platform overall? I wasn't sure sort of what the breakout looks like in terms of residential versus commercial? And how does it impact sort of your perspective about investing additional capital there? Well that's a lot of questions there.
Basically I don't think the -- I think the VAT tax is going to be negative.
That's effectively a 20% price increase.
And we've been told that in fact that's going in place October 1.
So my guess is it will be negative.
How much we don't know.
I think we have 25% 30% business customers.
So obviously they won't pay it but the retail customer will be paying it.
The next question comes from the line of Eric Wolfe with Citi.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Michael Bilerman.
Ron I'm just curious with occupancy getting back towards what is historical peak-ish levels and more of your revenue growth coming from rate how much further do you think you can push rate increases on your customers? And sort of where are you sort of sending out renewal notices today? Michael this is John.
We are still pushing rental rate increases to existing tenants.
We're sending out as many renewals this year as we did last year.
The rate increases are higher this year than last year.
Can we continue to do that into next year? We're going to continue to try to do that.
We see no reason why we couldn't do that.
Part of our revenue growth was also driven by reductions and discounts as Ron mentioned.
So we picked up a good chunk of growth in the second quarter by reducing discounts to those new incoming tenants.
So we're continuing to drive our revenues mostly with increases to existing tenants but also with reduced discounts to new incoming tenants.
Research Division</strong> And what would the discounts have been in terms of the spread relative to last year in terms of impacting revenues? Well the -- probably the spread is probably close to 100 bps of growth in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> And you would expect this 5% growth to continue in the back half of the year assuming occupancy is flat to up a little bit.
All right Michael.
We're not getting into that.
As you know we don't give guidance Michael.
So...
Research Division</strong> Trying get to a sense of how much you can push your customers that's all.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I'm on with Jordan Sadler as well.
Just a quick follow-up on that.
I was wondering if you could break out in terms of the top line growth what the impact was from reduced concessions versus higher market rents.
Well again the growth that we experienced is primarily driven by increases to existing tenants.
That's primarily the biggest driver.
And as I mentioned to Michael on the previous color that we drove growth about 100 basis points by reduced discounts.
Market rents those that are charged -- that are theoretically charged to new move-ins although our market rents are higher the rents that are actually taken by the move-ins were about flat year-over-year.
And our move-in volume as Ron mentioned was about flat year-over-year.
So we really didn't drive revenue on the new move-in customer other -- with the exception of reduced discounts to them.
But on the peer volume and rate to those customers it was a basically a push on a year-to-year basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ron or John can you just -- sort of following on your last comment John can you just give us a sense for the year-over-year change and sort of the relationship between street rents and your in-place rents? Street rents Mike are all over the place depending obviously what part of the country we're in.
They were probably up anywhere from 3% to 5%.
But with that said we discount occasionally off of those.
When we -- if a customer comes in via the web there's a discount.
So again the actual rate that's taken was about flat.
In terms of the in-place rent the in-place rent is still -- it fluctuates depending on the time of the year because we drive street rents which can then go higher than in-place rents.
And through that -- throughout the quarter it was probably up about 5% on a year-over-year basis.
But let me see if I can answer your question in a different way because it might be what you're really looking for.
People were moving in at roughly $114 per unit on rent but they were moving out at about $120 during the quarter.
So net-net we -- on just the pure rate alone we were in a rent roll-down which we were last year also.
But I think that's really the question that you're trying to fish for.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
And then can you just maybe talk a little bit about your Internet marketing strategy and kind of your view of the degree that that is a competitive advantage for you over -- certainly over your private competitors and maybe to some extent even how you feel about that versus your public competitors? Well Michael I'll start -- big picture on the Internet.
Last time I looked at it we get 75% 80% of our inquiries organically which means we don't have to pay for them.
And that's certainly attributable to the brand name.
When we talk to the experts at the search firms and Google that's a pretty unparalleled level of organic search not just in our industry but across industries in the U.S.
So I would say our brand has a tremendous benefit to us on the web and obviously a lower cost to drive Internet traffic vis-à-vis our competitors and the local operators.
As time has gone on we continue to drive more traffic through the web.
So more of our volume is coming through there and you can see that in our Internet spend which is probably up $1 million $1.5 million year-over-year.
But our cost per click is continuing to go down.
So we're getting more volume but the cost of each net customer is less than it was a year ago.
I don't know if that addresses everything you were trying to ask.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's fascinating color.
And if I can just follow on real quick just related to that.
What percentage of your customers overall come from the Internet as opposed to walk-in or over the phone I guess? Michael roughly 60% of our tenants appear to have come to us from the Internet.
And the reason I say appear because some of them make reservations on our website and some of them call our call center using the telephone number that they got from our website.
So if you combine those 2 together -- they didn't make a reservation on the website but they've made a reservation at a call center.
So we kind of combine those 2 and so roughly about 60% of our tenants are coming to us or at least those that make reservations and moving in are coming to us via the web and our website.
Your next question comes from the line of Gaurav Mehta of Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> John on your capital transactions do you have more preferred that is redeemable this year? We do.
We have in addition to the stuff that we've  already called there is -- we've got about 5 other series of preferreds that are callable.
Two of them -- the 2 highest coupon ones that are -- they're probably the next ones that we did so desire to call are Series X and the Series F.
Both of those have a coupon of about 6.45%.
And combined they're about close to $400 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And second switching gear.
I think on the call you mentioned that rents and occupancy are trending higher as of July.
I was wondering if you provided any numbers on that.
I didn't but I'll give them to you.
So at the end of July occupancy was 93.1% versus 92.9% last year.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you're looking at the domestic portfolio expense growth has been muted for a long time this quarter.
I think it was actually down year-over-year.
Can you talk about when do you see -- like how far away are you from something that feels like it's more normalized rate of expense growth? Mike this is Ron.
The big-swing variable in our expenses year-over-year has really been in the media advertising the television which I touched on as we've been able to reduce that by -- year-over-year on a same-store pool of $2.5 million.
In aggregate it's probably closer to $3.5 million but $2.5 million in the same-store pool while maintaining move in volume and reducing promotional discounts.
Q3 media spend as I touched on will probably be comparable to last year.
So if I just look at Q2 we had a 43% reduction in media spend.
We're not going to have that going into Q3.
The other items -- the big-swing items utilities it's been a milder second quarter weather-wise but it's been pretty hot in July and August across parts of the country.
So my guess is utilities will swing the other way.
Property level costs and I assume pretty well flat maybe up a little bit.
Property taxes are the big item.
It's our largest expense.
We're running about 4%.
John? Still our estimates are about a 4% increase throughout the full year Michael.
Your next question comes from the line of Neil Malkin of RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
One more general and then one more I guess specific operationally.
Given that some of your other peers have been doing significant amount of acquisitions relative to their size what is preventing you from sort of doing the same? I mean you have a pretty cheap cost of equity.
I mean are you looking at things portfolio sales maybe something like in California or Texas or the East Coast to sort of drive your growth going forward just given your -- where you're trading at your NAV versus your stock price? Or do you want to keep the same I guess portfolio size? What are your thoughts about that? Well a couple of things Neil.
First of all I don't think we have any peers but -- second of all I think if you run through the model -- run through one of your models if we did $1 billion of acquisitions and use preferred call it 5.25% and we bought $1 billion at say 6%.
And a 6% yield is about 100 basis points wide of the large New York portfolio done last year.
We had 50 to 75 bps on yield on $1 billion.
So you're talking $5 million or $6 million.
So I don't think if you run it through your model you'd see that that has a huge impact on our earnings growth.
And the second part is there's not $1 billion of any property in any markets to be had.
If you look at the acquisitions in the first half of the year all the public companies combined I think they bought about $200 million excluding stuff that they bought from joint ventures.
So -- and I'll just assume everyone's buying A properties in A markets.
That's only $200 million in the first half of the year.
Let's assume it's a $400 million or $500 million run rate.
So there's just not a lot of A product in A markets coming to the marketplace right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay my follow-up is -- and given your occupancy levels right now probably around the highest it had been in several years are you -- have you figured out the strategy of what sort of tenant not business tenant obviously sort of retail I guess you call it tenant to -- I guess to get to stay the longest before they move out? So I guess in other words because your occupancy is so high are you just going to look to push renewals very aggressively and see what sticks? Or are you sort of getting at it from a more I guess technologically savvy perspective? Or do you target those tenants who can take those large renewals consistently? So Neil one of the things that we monitor is the number of customers in the portfolio of greater than 1 year and that has been rising over the last couple of years.
At the end of Q2 June 30 it was about 54.9% which is up from 54.7% in 2011 and up from 54% in 2010.
So that number has been moving up year-over-year.
It varies slightly by quarter due to seasonality.
But quarter-over-quarter it's continued to increase.
So we pay attention to that because that's really the base of customers that we have that we target to send out rental rate increases.
So it's important that that group continue to grow.
The second aspect of it is rental rate increases have a direct impact on people's length of stay which is intuitively logical.
If you send them a 3% rental rate increase you're going to get a different move-out rate than if you send them a 30% rental rate increase.
So we monitor that very carefully in terms of the level of rental rate increases we send out versus our change in move-out volume.
It's not directed so much to whether they're a business customer or a consumer.
It's more how we're monitoring the rental rate increases than it's impact on our move-out volume.
Do you have any -- John anything to add? And Neil it depends on the market and the property.
We look at each of those factors the demography the move-out rates what happens to them after the -- we do give increases how much long -- how quickly do they move out because there is an uptick in move-out activity.
And we weigh that versus how much of an increase we're going to give particular customers within certain markets and certain properties.
So it's all kind of thrown into the mix.
Because at the end of the day we're trying to optimize our revenues without totally having people pack up and move.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Stender of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you give some more details on the acquisitions you made in the quarter and then the one you made in July just looking at occupancy and pricing? Stuff we bought during the quarter.
[indiscernible] Going back in my mind what we bought in the quarter versus recently.
The stuff we bought in the first half of the year most of it was bank foreclosures.
The occupancies were fairly low.
We've got another one of those to close on I think in August.
And then about 4 or 5 of the properties were more stabilized private transactions negotiated with private owners.
So they had a higher stabilized occupancy not 90% but closer to 75% 80%.
Is that what you're looking for? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes that was I was kind of going for.
You probably would err on the side of more lease-up opportunities.
Yes.
The -- this is kind of bad but the great thing about the short sales the bank foreclosure stuff is they're generally under-managed under-occupied and acquired at 40 [ph] good discounts to replacement cost.
So if I could buy 1 billion of those that would be fantastic.
But they're hard to come by.
They're challenging to negotiate through the sellers through the banks but they are a great long-term value add to the portfolio.
LLC Research Division</strong> Are they low in the sense that they were newly built over the last couple of years or not necessarily? No the stuff we bought in July had been open 4 5 years.
It was managed by a public company but it just wasn't run well.
And the other problem with that is banks are generally not going to put capital -- needed capital into the property.
So anyone managing is going to have a challenge achieving good occupancies because they can't make the investment to space mix changes water leaks roof those kinds of things.
So when we buy them we like that.
We can easily refit them rebrand them and then get them to our 92% 93% occupancy.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is there a CapEx per square foot number that you kind of earmarked for new acquisitions like that? It varies deal by deal.
It really does.
So we're looking at all-in costs the rebranding costs.
One of the acquisitions we did we had to buy a parcel of land behind it so we could create another entranceway into the property.
But that was all factored in when we underwrote the transaction.
Your next question comes from the line of Paula Poskon of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> A question about...
[Technical Difficulty] We'll move on to our next question from David Harris of Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
So a couple of questions for you Ron on Europe.
Over the last couple of quarters you referred to some management challenges and operational challenges in the Netherlands.
Are you beyond that now? David I think we are.
We're getting there.
If I look at Holland while year-over-year occupancy is down 3.6% with 75% at the end of the quarter versus 77.7% last year.
But the revenue growth is still declining about 2%.
But that rate of growth has slowed.
We've got a good team in there and so I think we'll see Holland maybe not this year but next year turn positive for us and we'll push the occupancies in that market.
So I'm feeling pretty good about Holland.
Our new CEO over there is doing a great job.
He's out in field operations a lot.
So I think he's gaining traction.
The market that's kind of started hurting us is our largest market France where we're backwards on occupancy there as well 2.8%.
Revenue growth is down 1.6% but that market has gotten pretty soft over the last 6 months.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you think that's associated with all the political change and the slowdown in the economy? Or is it more specific to your business? I think there's -- it's in general in France.
I don't know whether it was in June or July that there's a proposal to increase wages for everyone over there by I think 2% or 3%.
And so -- and our workers in France are unionized.
So they decided to go on strike for a day to emphasize that they wanted that 2% or 3% wage increase.
So we have various things like that challenging us in France.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is a bigger-picture question.
Is it premature to think about good opportunities arising over the next couple of years out of the financial dislocation economic disruption that we're seeing in the continent? I think you have to step back David.
In Europe there's 1 200 1 400 facilities.
Probably half of them are not even product we would want maybe even 3/4 of them.
Europe is really more of a development opportunity.
The really quality portfolios -- take Big Yellow.
It's not over-leveraged.
It's well run smart group of guys running that portfolio.
There's some regional operators over there that also have some quality assets.
But to our knowledge they're not over-leveraged.
So they're not in financial distress.
So there's not a lot of distressed product of quality as best we can tell available in Europe.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the external dimension to your growth story over time is really going to be more development than acquisitions there? In Europe yes.
But we call last -- I think we went through this last quarter we're really focused on taking our cash flow in Europe and de-leveraging.
So we can hopefully get to investment grade late 2013 early 2014.
So that's really our principal focus in terms of capital deployment in Europe is de-leveraging.
Your next question comes from the line of Paula Poskon of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Sorry about that.
We just moved offices and we're still having technical difficulties.
So my question was are you seeing any elevation in employee turnover either in the field or at the corporate headquarters as the job market slowly improves? And how do you think about staying ahead of that in terms of retention strategies? Paula we have a excellent HR team headed up by Candy and she works closely with Shawn our COO and John Sambuco.
And they look at turnover all the time and they look at recruiting across markets.
In fact we have a weekly meeting on new staffing both at the field level and the district manager level.
So we -- it's something we monitor very closely.
We've been fortunate on the property manager relief manager side that our turnover is flat to down versus last year.
And on the DM side we're hiring fewer DMs this year because we've had a little less turnover.
But on a District Manager side we're challenged in markets that you would expect like Washington D.C.
Baltimore which has incredibly low unemployment.
So those markets are harder to fill.
But overall we're doing fine on the turnover side.
We haven't noticed a big uptick.
Corporate-wide turnover is not really -- pretty low.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just a follow-up on your comments regarding domestic acquisitions.
I guess I'm just wondering all else being equal given the free cash flow that you're throwing off $65 million $75 million a quarter would you rather pay down preferreds at 6% or buy an asset at 6% yield even if it is what you consider to be a Class B facility? Well we'd rather grow our asset base than continue to de-leverage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well I guess it seems like right now with some of the refinancing of the preferreds that you are de-leveraging the balance sheet a little bit.
Do you have plans to continue in that direction? Or do you think that you'll bring leverage up a bit? Todd it really just depends on the opportunity.
As I touched on before we're -- there's not a lot out there.
But what is out there we're trying to garner.
We have system-wide or company-wide about $5 billion to $6 billion of preferred capacity.
So we have plenty of firepower.
It's really just predicated on the right opportunity.
Research Division</strong> Ron it's Jordan.
I guess trying to figure out -- I mean are you cap rate sensitive? I know you talk a lot about and have for years about discount relative to replacement cost or replacement cost being something of a governor.
And it's a little -- conceptually I understand why.
But given sort of the lease-up timeframes I guess it's a little bit harder to gauge what lease-up cost is given how long it can take to lease up.
So I'm just curious -- we're just curious.
Are you cap rate sensitive in that given you have all this cash flow and the willingness and the ability to lever up? If prices were to move in the direction of that initial cap rate and stabilized assets head significantly lower than 6% are you cap rate -- are you sensitive to that? Jordan I'm not sure I understand your question but I'll try.
Research Division</strong> Is there a threshold that you're not looking...
We are more price per pound sensitive than cap rate sensitive.
One of the properties we're acquiring in Q3 it's in New Jersey.
It's $40 a foot and I think on day 1 it has a negative yield.
It's 30% 40% occupied.
It's a bank foreclosure okay? At $40 a foot it's half the replacement cost.
We love the deal.
Will it take us 1 year or 2 to fill up? Maybe but $40 a foot we couldn't even build it for half that.
So we love that deal.
The stuff we bought in the first quarter which saw some bank foreclosure blended cost of about $80 a foot.
Our guess is that stuff on average would take about $120 a foot.
I think we paid $45 million for that and the going-in income was about -- less than $1 million if I recall.
So again not going in cap rate sensitive.
We're looking at -- it's the blended $80 a foot and it's $120 to build.
Does that help you? Research Division</strong> It is.
I guess I'm just curious is it -- how do you value lease-up? Let's say some things 30% leased you can buy it at a 10% discount to replacement cost but it's probably going to take -- it's in the market where it's going to take you another 3 years to lease it up what's -- like what's the value do you still...
Well we impute a cost to carry to get it to a stabilized deal in our own internal analysis.
So we try to discount back that.
To your point a property that has 3 years to lease up is not -- it has a different value than one that is already stabilized.
So we try to impute -- well we don't try we do impute our cost of capital our carrying cost associated with that.
And we're also acquiring stabilized properties.
We bought -- in the first quarter -- second quarter we bought 2 properties here in Southern California that -- one was I think 70% and the other is 80% occupied more mature properties.
And there we paid $130 $135 a foot much closer to replacement cost but they're good properties in good locations.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Of the 5% rent growth that you recorded this quarter and when we look back in history it looks like in the last cycle '05 '06 the peak of the life cycle for you guys you had several quarters where you had 5% maybe one quarter at 6% and then it sort of trailed off in '07 and then beyond that of course but how do you think about the stellar rent growth in sort of the sustainability of that or even the prospects for any of the acceleration just given that obviously the macro environment is much softer than in the '05 and '06 recovery? Just how do you sort of reconcile that and does that make you more cautious on rent growth going forward compared to that time? Well '05 '06 was quite a while back.
There were a couple of things that impacted our numbers in that period of time.
Probably the most impactful Michael was hurricanes.
I think there were 2 or 3 down in Florida and that filled up most of our Florida properties for 1 year or 2 with no promotional discounts.
You could call it self-storage nirvana and that was in our '05 '06 numbers.
We haven't had hurricanes down there for a while or they haven't impacted the storage facilities.
So that's certainly a wild card in our operating results going forward.
The other thing that impacted us in '07 '08 was the Shurgard Merger.
If you recall they're about 8% to 10% lower occupancies than us.
And so that impacted our property occupancies pretty significantly during that period in part due to cannibalization.
Going forward I don't know if you asked me if we will be reporting 5% same-store revenue growth this quarter versus the exceptional performance we had last year I would have said that wouldn't happen.
So I've been surprised by the robustness of the business as well as the fact that we're issuing 5 handled [ph] preferred.
I did not expect that last year.
So my forecasting abilities aren't great.
What I do know is we're in a great business and it continues to perform well.
And we've seen good demand across the country.
Being able to drive -- hold up -- hold move-in volume while reducing promotional discounts and media spend to me says a lot about the robustness of the business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> $1 billion of hypothetical acquisition scenario that you outlined earlier and sort of the challenges of getting there and the sort of minimal yield spread that you see do you feel like that the trouble of finding that level of acquisition volume is a function of a slow investment sales market? Or are you sort of approaching some kind of limit in terms of the properties that you're actually interested in acquiring from a -- sort of a preference standpoint.
I'd say it's more lack of supply in terms of quality product versus change in preference or anything like that.
It's really a supply issue.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Any thoughts on what might unleash some more -- require [ph]  for you guys to acquire more? I really don't Michael.
I'm sorry I don't.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Ron one of your competitors that I guess did not want to procure[ph] stated that Phoenix was actually one of their weaker markets and I'm wondering if you've seen anything in your portfolio whether it's a Phoenix or anything around the Miami area which are 2 markets where the housing markets have recovered where you have actually seen any weakness in your sources.
Hold on a sec Ross.
I'll get you...
Research Division</strong> Obviously the theory being that if you've got a rapidly improving housing market in those areas people are taking their stuff out of storage because they've got more space.
Yes.
Let me give you the same-store growth.
Tampa was up 2.7% in the quarter which is at the low end of our top 20.
Orlando was up 4% and Miami was up 6.6% one of our best-performing markets in the quarter.
So we've got Tampa Orlando down at the lower growth end and Miami just on fire there at 6.6%.
Phoenix is not in our top 20.
But its same-store revenue growth for the quarter was 1.2%.
Vegas was pretty well flat but it is moving up as well.
And I expect that to be positive probably in the back half of the year and not -- and next year.
Does that -- I'm not sure if that addresses your...
Research Division</strong> No.
Look I think we're grabbing at straws here right to figure out what's going on in this crazy world.
Completely unrelated question which is you don't have a massive acquisition slate at least it doesn't look like it.
Development is almost non-existent.
Where are you spending most of your time personally? You've got great people running the assets.
Where do you spend your days? Well I have a new COO to train here in the U.S.
I have a new CEO in Europe and I like to participate in acquisition opportunities.
And then 2 weeks ago I got Shawn our new COO.
We spent a week in the car going through the Carolinas in Atlanta.
So it's always good to get out in the field.
So that's what I tend to do.
Research Division</strong> A final question from me.
Why shouldn't we be seeing a notable pickup in development activity if conditions are as robust as they are? Well I think there is development activity.
Why isn't it more robust? Probably due to financing.
Certainly the more well-capitalized regional operators have access to capital.
And we've heard we've seen a number of them talk about development some of them are starting.
But the majority of the product which comes in the onesies and twosies everything we know of those guys are still having a big challenge in terms of getting financing to undertake development.
And if you think about development as a whole and we may have covered this last time over the last 10 12 years there's probably been 15 000 facilities developed.
I don't know the exact number but the public companies contributed a very very small fraction of that.
Most of it came from local people building 1 to 5 facilities.
And those are the people that are pretty well capital constrained at that time -- at this time.
Did that change going forward? It really depends on the banking industry.
Does it make sense to build in some markets? Well certainly in New York if you could sell at $400 or $500 a foot.
Can you build less than $400 or $500 a foot? Yes.
So is it New York market where it makes sense to build? I think so.
Your final question comes from the line of Eric Wolfe with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Michael Bilerman again.
John given that Ron's forecasting abilities and his words are not that great where are you sending out your renewal? What sort of percentage increase in the renewals going forward are you sending out now? Well I could tell you what we've done Michael which we're pretty much done now for the bulk of the year.
We've sent out very little increases in the third and fourth quarter.
Actually I shouldn't say the third quarter.
I mean in September and -- to the back end of the year and the increases on average were about a little over 9% compared to last year of about 8%.
Research Division</strong> And then there's some re-trading where that net's down.
Oh yes.
Because you'll --again you'll lose some of that.
So people won't stick around.
So you get a incremental pop-in or increase in move-in volumes.
So on a net-net basis we'll probably able to expect to kind of really get out of the 9% get maybe about a 6% out of it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Ron can you just remind us how much does the U.K.
represent of Europe in terms of NOI? Michael on a same-store basis it's about 15%.
Research Division</strong> And then just thinking about you talked a little about the acquisitions that some of the public peers have done in terms of buying from their joint venture partners they've also bought from their management platforms.
And we talked a little bit about this on the last call.
Have you given more thought of potentially making that a bigger part of the business A one just given the fact that you are operating margins and how you run your business and about putting a managed asset into there is so valuable; and second in order to create a larger ongoing pipeline of deals potentially for you to acquire? Yes Michael.
I would say if we were to really get going and as I think I touched on last quarter we -- I think we do 35 40 properties third-party management.
So we've been in that business for -- since our -- since inception because when we first started Public Storage when we started out we sold our properties and we managed them.
So we've been in the third-party business for 40 years.
We would undertake third party as -- overall as a business that made sense.
As I've said before filling up someone's properties so I can turn around and buy it at a higher price just I have trouble with the economics of that.
But in terms of run -- doing the third-party business and making it that business and profitable we're continuing to evaluate that.
Research Division</strong> And then just my last question.
Just your sense of what's happened over the last year and just in terms of demand in the business and obviously being able to produce the rate increases that you have and continue to push occupancy even modestly over high levels how much do you think the public landlords have just been in a market share game versus incremental new demand of the storage business? Well I'm sure we've taken some market share.
But -- and I know that some other people talk about that as the big thing.
But just step back and look at the fact that the public companies in aggregate have less than 10% share of the industry.
Now certainly some certain markets and for us you take Seattle and Minneapolis where we're by far the dominant operators the public companies really aren't there and we have very good share.
We've seen good demand in those markets.
So I would say it's not really -- we're not taking away from the smaller operators.
That is aggregate demand for the product is good is robust.
So I don't think there's a material impact of this kind of market share thing between large and small operators because the large operators just have such a small fraction of the total industry.
Research Division</strong> Yes but there's an element even if you -- even if the public guys own 10% that percent that you own of the higher-quality assets is much much higher right where people could be trading up to a more secure better well-located climatized assets.
They could but generally the better assets in the better markets are already pretty well occupied.
If you go from 87% to 92% on a 1 000-unit property you're talking 50 60 spaces.
It's not going to really change the dynamics of that particular submarket.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the floor back over to Clem Teng for any closing remarks.
I want to thank everybody for attending our conference this afternoon and we look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Thank you bye.
This concludes today's Public Storage Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Public Storage Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Clem Teng.
Mr.
Teng please go ahead.
Thank you Jackie.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our third quarter earnings call.
Here with me today are Ron Havner and John Reyes.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this conference call are forward-looking statements subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.
These risks and other factors that could adversely affect our business and future results are described in today's earnings press release and in our reports filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of today November 9 2012 and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A reconciliation to GAAP of the non-GAAP financial measures we are providing on this call is included in our earnings press release.
You can find our press release SEC reports and audio webcast replay of this conference call on our website at www.publicstorage.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to John Reyes.
Thank you Clem.
I have a few comments on the impact of Hurricane Sandy.
We have 90 facilities in the New York New Jersey market of which 70 in our Same Store pool of properties.
These 70 facilities generated approximately $27 million in revenues during the third quarter.
Within a few days all of these facilities were open and operating.
Damage to our facilities was minimal.
We expect expenditures will be less than $1.5 million for repairs.
With respect to third quarter earnings our FFO -- our core FFO per share was $1.76 compared to $1.56 last year a 13% increase.
This growth was primarily driven by a 7.9% increase in our same-store net operating income for $0.13 per share and lower preferred stock dividends of $0.05 per share.
As announced yesterday we will be redeeming on December 27 3 series of our preferred securities totaling $363 million.
As a result we expect to record an EITF expense of approximately $12 million in the fourth quarter.
With that I will now turn it over to Ron.
Thank you John.
The third quarter benefited from solid demand resulting in record high occupancies and higher realized rents.
In Q3 customer acquisition costs declined and customer move-ins increased by 6 200 or about 3%.
Customer move-outs declined by about 2 500.
At the end of October occupancy and in-place rents were higher than last year.
The Charlotte and Denver markets led the country with revenue growth of 8% followed by Houston and Miami with about 6%.
Los Angeles our largest market grew by 4.4%.
And San Francisco our second largest market increased by about 5.5%.
In Europe same-store NOI improved 2% despite a challenging operating environment.
We recently acquired 8 facilities and have 2 others under contract.
Total 2012 acquisition volume for third parties will be just over $200 million.
With that operator let's open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ron just curious your thoughts or level of worry about what happened in California this week.
It seemed like with respect to the Prop 30 maybe that's actually good for the 99% versus the 1% so maybe that's actually good for your business.
But what about the democratic supermajority and possibility of changing Prop 13 for commercial.
Does that scare you a lot? Well Michael I think it's a little early to comment on that since the election just happened this week.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You don't worry about that too much yet? Well we've always had the issue in California.
It comes up from time-to-time on Prop 13.
But in terms of saying that something imminent is going to happen when the legislature hasn't even convened is a little premature.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Why do you think rents -- realized rent growth didn't accelerate from the 2Q pace? We didn't -- Michael because we were in a position during the third quarter where we did more promotional discounting than we did in Q2 so on a relative basis our growth slowed down.
Q2 -- or Q3 Michael is a net move-out quarter versus Q2 which is up to flat.
So as the quarter progresses you trend down in terms of losing occupancy so it tends to be a little more higher discounts in Q2.
Q2 we peak in occupancy at 93-or-so percent.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I ask one more question? I forget if you guys have a limit or not.
We do but go ahead.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just the percent of tenants that have been in your facilities 1 year or more versus last year? Yes it's about 55%.
Hold on a sec.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That sounds like that'd be about unchanged from 2Q? It's pretty much unchanged Michael for the most part.
With that said though we have more tenants.
So that's going to kind of put pressure on the percentage that's going to be greater than 1 year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Got it.
Michael 2010 for Q3 we were at 54.9%; 2011 55.3%; and this year 55% at the end of the quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just without much occupancy to gain at this point in the cycle do you think that we are in an environment where you can continue to see realized rent increases of say 4% to 5% just based on what you're seeing in the portfolio today? Todd I'll let John address the pricing.
If you recall last year we started talking about how we were going to try to get our average occupancy for the year up.
And due to the seasonality of our business historically Q4 and Q1 have been 300 to 500 basis points lower in occupancy versus Q2 Q3.
So what we did at the beginning of this year and we're continuing here into the fourth quarter is really trying to drive that occupancy into Q4 so that we take some of the seasonality out of the business.
You want to touch on pricing? Yes.
And Todd to do that we've been keeping our pricing pretty much consistent with prior year.
So people that are moving in are moving in at rates that are pretty much flat on a year-over-year basis.
So one of the things that we have been able to do is reduce the level of discounting that we've been giving up.
So we've been able to gain occupancy reduce discounts but the move-in rate is about flat.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question you mentioned the redemptions the preferred redemptions that were announced last night another $300 million and change or so.
I think that there's strong demand for your preferreds.
Do you expect to begin to lever up a little bit and continue to issue new preferreds or should we continue to see you delever at this point? I would expect that we will be in the market sometime in the next couple of months to try to issue additional preferred securities and take advantage of the current rate environment that's very favorable.
So we're not -- we don't have it as a goal to delever the company per se.
We're right now just trying to reduce the overall cost of capital to the company.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Was wondering if you can just talk a little bit about what you've been seeing with market rates and just market rate growth.
And Ron I think in past calls you typically talked about occupancy levels up through the current month so I was wondering if you could also comment on if that occupancy increase at quarter end was sticking through October? Sure Mike.
At the end of October our occupancy was 92.3% versus 90.9% last year.
And with the rates...
Rates are pretty much constant Mike pretty flat year-over-year on the street rates.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Guys just going back to the preferred comment.
John do you -- John or Ron do you expect that you can break that 5 1/4% barrier? Ron expects and I'm hoping that we can do it.
So we will find out but I don't know Michael right now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then Ron just on the $200 million of acquisitions can you guys just talk a little bit about sort of your appetite for investments what you see out there because I think one challenge people have with your stock and one reason maybe it's not done as well lately is we're all accustomed to is the $200 million on your asset base is almost nothing.
So maybe just talk about what you're seeing and why not be maybe a little more aggressive given your low cost of capital.
Well Michael as you've heard me say before it's easy to buy real estate.
All you have to do is show up with the biggest check.
So that's not that hard to do.
Buying real estate at or below replacement cost-quality assets that's hard to do.
So I think we pretty much have a no-lose strategy.
60% to 70% of the stuff we bought this year was distressed in one form or another and was acquired at substantial discount to replacement cost.
The other stuff was either marketed or off-market deals.
And so I'm very very pleased with the acquisitions that we're doing.
And as I said I don't think we can really lose with that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question for me would be just how this quarter's performance came in versus your own expectations.
A little better a little better.
We felt good coming out of Q2 with high occupancies.
As we touched on in Q2 our promotional discounts were down.
Media spend was down.
And as we had in our second quarter call the trend was good.
So a little better especially on the expense side than we anticipated but overall about as planned.
Your next question comes from the line of Paula Poskon with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the acquisition conversation are you not seeing the kinds of opportunities that are attractive and meeting your investment criteria or is there just a complete dearth of an opportunity set broadly? And sort of a corollary to that are you considering selling any assets? Well we're not considering selling any assets at this time.
David Doll's here so I'll let him give you some color on the acquisition market but as I touched on with Michael we look at properties.
We look at replacement costs and that's a key factor.
And so sometimes we get outbid.
But I'll let David give some more color on that.
Thank you Ron.
Paula we're not seeing a real change in the product that's coming to market.
There are plenty of assets in markets that we're not interested that come to market.
And the quality properties in major metro markets no real change in terms of product supply at this point in time.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Stender with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just looking at the properties you acquired recently and the stuff you have under contract how did those look like compared to your other properties in those respective MSAs just from an occupancy and a rent-per-square foot basis? Well most of this stuff as I touched on Todd 70 -- 60% to 70% of the stuff that we've acquired this year was in one form of stress or not.
And so usually those -- not usually they're always under occupied generally mispriced lots of fill-up opportunities.
People ask what cap rates.
Well some of them are operating at losses some of them are at 1% or 2% yields.
But we have enough market knowledge to know that okay we can attain a $2-a foot rent $2.50 rent.
And our surrounding properties are 92% 93% occupied.
So we're not too worried about achieving a stabilized yield of 7% 8% or 9% on those assets.
But if you look at them on "what is the going in" yield it's generally nominal and they're pretty under managed.
Does that address your question? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes are the occupancies say 40% or are they closer to say 70%? Generally the assets we bought this year are probably in the 50% to 70% range.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wolfe with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Michael Bilerman with Eric.
John just in terms of the preferred and you think about entering the market next year with the redemptions announced last night correct me if I'm wrong the -- you have nothing left now from a redemption perspective until 2015 correct? That is correct yes.
Research Division</strong> And so from -- I guess you'll certainly feel the accretive effects from the amount that you did this year in lowering the average cost of that.
But how should we think about I guess going forward any issuance then just sits on cash until you use it and with Ron's comments on the acquisition market I would just take it that -- I don't know at what point would you issue them just to sit on cash? Well at that point once we take care of let's say refinancing the $362 million that we called last night we're not afraid to sit on cash.
We've done that before.
So we'll opportunistically issue preferred probably in 2013 put some cash on the balance sheet and hopefully opportunities come our way and we can utilize that cash.
But we want to make sure that we're taking advantage of the current rate environment and load up the balance sheet with some cash if we need to be.
Michael we also have about $250-or-so million of debt due in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Of next year.
So we should expect that you'll just take that out with capital -- with preferred? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And how -- I guess maybe just -- and I jumped on late.
So when you jump on late to a Public Storage call you miss the opening comments.
Could you talk a little bit about Europe and I apologize if you did just in terms of the operations but also the structure and financing and how we should think about that going forward? Well Europe I made the comment Michael that same-store NOI was improved by 2% despite a challenging operating environment.
That NOI growth was principally achieved by expense reduction principally in the R&amp;M and advertising area.
Europe itself our European operation would be in what I would call a deleveraging mode.
Last year we acquired the JV interest and refinanced it in the fourth quarter with a third-party loan from Wells Fargo.
And we're taking our cash from operations and paying down that credit facility pursuant to its terms.
Our hope is longer term sometime in '13 maybe '14 that our debt-to-EBITDA will get in the 4 to 4.5 range.
And we hope to qualify for an investment grade rating at which time we'll consider various opportunities to refinance out the balance of the Wells Fargo loan as well as possibly the Public Storage intercompany debt.
Research Division</strong> And just last question.
You just commented in terms of your feelings about how you performed in the third quarter and you made comments about heading into the third quarter how you felt.
I guess can you make some more commentary today about how you feel now in the fourth quarter about where things stand and sort of your outlook for the rest of the year? Yes.
Overall I think Europe is -- well I know it's doing better than we anticipated.
John and I thought Europe would be a pretty negative same-store NOI growth this year and the team over there has done a good job.
While occupancy is back about 300 basis points in-place rents are up about 3.5%.
So we've been able to hold it in terms of the revenue line pretty well and then been pretty aggressive on cost management.
So overall it's a positive NOI year which quite frankly is surprising.
Our toughest market continues to be Holland where we're at 73% occupied at the end of the quarter which is down 6.5% from last year.
Despite very aggressive rental rate reductions and promotional discounts we've been very challenged to get traction there in Holland.
Most of the other markets are kind of chugging along.
France is a little soft.
Denmark we've got some tough year-over-year comps.
There was a big flood up in Denmark.
London's doing great.
Same-store NOI in London for the quarter was up 18% year-over-year and occupancy and rates are up.
So London's kind of the bright spot for us in Europe.
Research Division</strong> I meant more so about the just sort of your optimism or pessimism for the fourth quarter in the U.S.
business whether there's anything in the first effectively 6 weeks of the year that -- 6 weeks of the quarter that you sort of think how it will trend for the rest of the quarter.
So we're coming into Q4 very strong with higher year-over-year occupancies.
Someone else earlier asked about the October occupancies.
They're at 92.3% versus 90.9% so they've gapped out about 1.4% 1.5%.
So we're heading into Q4 very strong.
John touched on rates are about the same as last year.
So we're feeling pretty good going into Q4 in U.S.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> Ron I know you look at replacement costs but does issuing preferreds at that 5 1/4% or even lower change the threshold that you'll pay for acquisitions? I don't think whether we issue 5% or 5 1/4% preferred changes what replacement cost has.
Managing one side of the balance sheet is a little independent of the other.
Research Division</strong> Okay but -- so I guess let me ask you a different way.
How aggressive would you be to perhaps gain additional exposure in some markets that are attractive to you today? Does a portfolio or significant opportunity sort of change the mindset somewhat? And would you pay a premium on a price-per-square foot basis with having such a low cost of capital today? Let me try to touch on being aggressive.
We recently acquired 2 properties in Hawaii at $250 a foot? About $250 a foot probably a 10% or 15% premium to replacement costs.
There are 2 probably of 15 A properties in the Hawaii market.
It was an off-market deal.
So we definitely paid up for that.
We'll we do that again? Yes.
So A product in A markets in my mind we're very aggressive in terms of bidding or -- for that kind of product.
Your next question comes from the line of Seth Laughlin with ISI.
Research Division</strong> Ron and John it's Steve.
I guess a bunch of my questions were answered on Europe.
But just in general what are you seeing on kind of the new development side? I know you guys aren't really developing anything.
But are you seeing anything changing on that? And is there a point at which you would actually kind of look to go back into the development business? Steve as I've touched on in previous quarters I think development is inevitable.
We're starting to see it.
We've been seeing it this year around the country in various markets.
We took down a property in New York that you could consider it a large redevelopment or a development -- we're redeveloping a existing building there in the Bronx.
So yes I think you're going to see us a little more aggressive on the development and redevelopment front in 2013.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ron do you feel like there's sort of a practical cap on rent growth that you can achieve? I think in the last cycle you guys kind of peaked out at maybe at 5% -- 5% or 6% type of realized rent growth and that's almost where you're at here.
Do you feel like you can get higher than that maybe next rental season or do you feel like just practically you can't really get there -- above that? Well Michael just try to -- let's think about rent growth here for a couple of things.
There's a couple of levers.
One occupancy which is volume.
I've touched on where our occupancies are at the end of September where they are in October.
So you're going to see some growth in the rental revenue line from that gap in occupancy which we hope to maintain or expand in Q4 and into Q1.
The second thing is with respect to rental rate increases to existing customers and John can touch on that but we've been running -- a lot of our growth comes from that and I think it's been 3.5% 4% of our growth comes from those.
And then the third factor that's been a -- probably a bigger impact in 2012 versus last 3 or 4 years is promotional discounts which we've been able to modulate down especially during the second and third quarter due to our high occupancy.
So going into 2013 if we're able to sustain the higher level of occupancies we hope to be able to modulate further down the promotional discounts.
We've got 3 drivers to the rental revenue line: discounts volume and rental rate increases to existing customers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when we look at the operating expense line you're down a little over 0.5% for the year.
Obviously the media spend is down a lot.
Do you feel like that number starts to stabilize next year? Do you feel like there's continued savings there as you get even better at the Internet marketing side of the shop? I think there's some opportunities on the expense side going into 2013 not a lot but some.
I would kind of go back to what I always tell people and that is you should assume a 2% to 3% expense growth on a long-term basis.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes but does that start next year? It sounds like maybe not.
Michael I'm not going to give you guidance.
Thank you.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Last question would be just in terms of the $200 million of acquisitions for the year.
Do you feel like that's sort of a baseline level that you could probably exceed next year or do you feel like that is sort of a fair betting line for next year as well? I'd like to see us do $1 billion of acquisitions next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Two quick things.
One Ron I was wondering you mentioned Hawaii acquisition.
You paid up for that.
Can you throw out what the cap rate was or range on that? And then also on G&amp;A I think it was a quarter or 2 ago you were talking about maybe about a $50 million $51 million run rate.
Q3 it popped a little bit compared to prior quarters and I think your year-to-date's about $44 million $45 million or so.
Just wondering what you're thinking on a go-forward basis there.
I'll let John address G&amp;A.
The cap rate on Hawaii properties I think the going in was about 2% 2.5% and they're about 45% 50% occupied.
And on G&amp;A Mike most of the pop was due to stock-based compensation.
We had a little higher in expenditures and legal fees.
Expect a run rate for 2012 to be somewhere in the $57 million range.
And then 2013 I would assume as Ron said an inflater off of that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Ron can you talk about the discounts? Maybe I can tackle it a little different way.
What percentage of customers who moved in in the third quarter received discounts versus the same quarter a year ago? Do you have that? Roughly about 82% probably were getting discounts Ross versus maybe about 92% last year.
Research Division</strong> Discounts have clearly been a big part of the self-storage industry since almost its birth I would guess.
It would seem to me that your ability to continue to I guess drive that level of discounts down do you think that's more a function of what your peers do that you're subject in some respects to the advertising and the marketing of the broad market as opposed to what you want to do? In some respects yes it's what our peers are doing Ross.
But in a lot of respects it's what our portfolio of tenants are doing.
They're staying longer.
They're more sticky now which is enabling us to maintain occupancies without having to have the same -- necessarily the same level of move-in volume and giving away more and more promotion.
So we're being conservative on the rate to get them in but we're also being a little stingier on the discounts.
And we've said this before the whole game and growing the revenues at least on the rate side is sending increases to the existing tenant base.
And Ron had mentioned that although our tenant base -- our aging tenant base is roughly a little bit less than last year in absolute numbers that is actually growing.
So as we come back around to 2013 we hope that the tenant base will be -- continue to be more stable and we will send out more increases in terms of absolute number of increases to tenants as we get into 2013.
So it's really -- a lot has to do with the stabilization of our tenants.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
So that takes me to the next question which is if street rates have been roughly flat year-over-year as you send out the increases to existing customers do you find -- I guess you'll find yourself in a position perhaps of having some level of rent roll-down on the portion of portfolio? Are you at that point yet? Well there's always some rent roll-down but on the increases that go on we can send out increases of 9% to folks and it will result in an uptick in move-out activity.
But on a net-net basis for those who stay and pay the 9% it's a big win for us so -- and what we are seeing is that that uptick in move-out activity is starting to diminish somewhat too.
So again the tenant base is becoming more sticky.
They're accepting the increases more.
And I think we're being a lot smarter in how we're going about sending out those increases so yes.
Research Division</strong> And last quick one from me.
In your best markets Ron that you alluded to are you seeing anything different from an economic perspective versus your worst markets? So is it a function of better job growth migration patterns? Can you isolate anything that's driving the good versus the bad markets? Ross John and I were talking about this the other day.
And pretty much across the portfolio business is good whether it's Kansas City Austin San Francisco Houston Miami.
Across the portfolio it's good.
Probably our softer market is somewhere in the Northeast Philly D.C.
but it's still good.
Your next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions.
First along the line of the hurricane.
I believe you disclosed the number in regards to repairs but could you give us a sense yet if that's starting to drive increased demand in any of the assets you own in any of the affected markets? Well in some of the sub-markets where the hurricane hit yes.
I mean we've had -- as we've gotten properties back online we've had pretty robust demand and we have a number of properties that are simply out of space.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> How many properties are those roughly? Well we have 90 facilities in the New York New Jersey market.
The properties that are benefiting the most so to speak from the storm are those along the Jersey coast and on the -- on Long Island.
I can't tell you how many we have there because I don't know.
So I'd just be guessing but those properties are doing well.
As Ron said some of them are 100% occupied right now.
But some of the other 90 properties that are in the New Jersey New York market are say north of the city and they're pretty much business as usual.
We're not -- we didn't see any real uptick in demand.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay that's helpful.
And then I have a second question just around the Internet being again a driver of reservations.
Just curious just what you're seeing in regards to those trends and if that continues to impact how you think about media spend on a going-forward basis.
Well about a little more than half of our move-in volume is coming from the Internet be it the Internet from search engines organic searches mobile devices what have you.
And yes it has started to change our way of how we spend advertising dollars.
I mean we do spend a lot of money on keyword search as well as other Internet strategies.
In fact the bulk of our advertising spend is being done on the web for the most part.
At this time we have no further questions.
Okay.
Hi this is Clem.
I want to appreciate everybody's participation this afternoon.
We look forward to seeing many of you next week in San Diego at the NAREIT conference.
And if you're not going to be there we'll talk to you next quarter.
Have a good day and weekend.
Bye.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Public Storage Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions]  I would now like to turn the call over to Clem Teng.
Mr.
Teng please go ahead.
Thank you Jackie.
Good morning and thank you for joining us this morning for our fourth quarter earnings call.
Here with me today are Ron Havner and John Reyes.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this conference call are forward-looking statements subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.
These risks and other factors that could adversely affect our business and future results are described in today's earnings press release and in our reports filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of today February 22 2013 and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A reconciliation to GAAP or the non-GAAP financial measures we are providing on this call is included in our earnings press release.
You can find them our press release SEC reports and audio webcast replay of this conference call on our website at www.publicstorage.com.
I'll turn the call over to John Reyes.
Thank you Clem.
Our core FFO per share was $1.86 compared to $1.66 last year a 12% increase.
This increase was driven by a 9% growth in our same-store NOI growth of our non-same-store properties and lower preferred stock dividends.
With respect to our capital activity for 2012 we issued a total of $1.7 billion  of new preferred securities with an average coupon rate of 5.7% and redeemed $2 billion with an average rate of 6.6%.
Last month we issued $500 million of preferred stock at 5.2% the lowest rate ever.
A portion of the net proceeds from this issuance was used to pay off the outstanding debt under our revolving credit facility.
We increased our quarterly dividend to $1.25 per share representing an increase of 14%.
Since 2007 our dividend has more than doubled.
Our consistent long-term dividend policy has been to distribute only our taxable income.
With that I will now turn it over to Ron.
Thank you John.
The fourth quarter benefited from solid demand resulting in record high occupancies and higher realized rents.
Customer acquisition cost continued to decline while customer move-in volumes increased and move-outs declined.
At the end of January 2013 occupancy and in-place rents were higher than last year.
In Europe same-store NOI improved by 1% despite a difficult operating environment.
Of note in the U.K.
market Q4 revenue declined by 8.6% compared to last year and compared to a 4% growth in Q3 as we reduced rental rates to compensate for the introduction of the value-added tax in October.
In Q4 we acquired 10 facilities for approximately $82 million.
We're adding about 910 000 net rentable square feet to the portfolio.
With that operator let's open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with UBS.
Research Division</strong> With regard to the reduced seasonal impact on occupancy that you saw in Q4 is the 200 basis point occupancy gap that you had at year end something that you'll try to sustain through Q2 and Q3? Or is it really more a function of your efforts to sort of smooth out the occupancy cycle throughout the year? Christy I'd say it's the latter.
We're trying to smooth out the seasonality of our occupancies and so you saw us -- and we talked about this on our last conference call that we were going to try to do that during the fourth quarter which we did.
We gapped up versus last year by the 200 basis points that you mentioned.
We should continue that into the first quarter.
But by the time we get into the summer months it's going to be probably more difficult to keep that gap just because the year-over-year comps are going to be much tougher for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to follow up on that in regards to the ultimate goal being to maximize REVPAF growth given the different levers that you have would you expect that you could see a similar level of REVPAF growth in 2013 versus the 5% you saw in 2012? Christy that kind of borders on guidance.
Research Division</strong> A little.
Yes.
I'd say this Christy.
If you look at where we started the year we started the year and I'm talking about 2013 where we have the 200 bps of occupancy gap our in-place rents were up 2.9%.
So if you add those together we were kind of looking at a 4.9 starting the year.
If you look -- if you go back 1 year prior to that as we started 2011 that same number comparable number was at 3.6.
As we move forward into this year -- so we're starting at a better place than we did last year and as we move forward into 2013 we expect that we will continue to send rental rate increase letters to our existing tenant base.
That's where we're going to get and have been getting a significant amount of our rental rate growth.
We expect that the rates that we will send will be comparable to 2012.
But one thing -- one benefit we do have in addition to that is is that we have more tenants that have aged longer than 1 year as we start this current year by about 2%.
So we have a higher base of tenants to send rental rate increases to.
So we're pretty confident that we can continue to grow our rental rate and I'm not giving guidance.
I'm just saying we can continue to grow our rental rate as we move forward.
Research Division</strong> Those notices have been around 8% to 10% is that right? Correct.
On average I believe it's about 8.5% increases.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on rents to new customers.
You've been at or above 90% occupancy now for some time and I think you've commented in the past that you've tried to raise rates across the portfolio several times over the last few years but the industry wasn't really quite ready to raise rates since it was still filling up.
But now that the industry is at a higher occupancy level are results this year on your efforts to increase asking rents any different? Is there any comments on pricing power that you can make? Todd we'll have to see that as it unfolds in 2013 and kind of what the competition does vis-à-vis rental rate increases.
But there's 2 levers here that I think you need to think about.
If you look at the average move-in rate for last year it was about flat.
However promotional discounts which is mainly the dollar special upfront were down about 9% for the year and down about 20% for the quarter.
And for last year we gave away about $90 million in our same-store pool promotional discounts.
So irrespective of what's happening to street rates there's a big opportunity in terms of promotional discounts money that we're -- or the incentives that we give to customers to move in.
There's a big opportunity there to improve the top line just by reducing those.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last question on the expense side.
You've talked about implementing some new on-site training systems that might help reduce payroll costs and we also saw a real big decrease in repairs and maintenance.
Is there a lot more savings here? What might we see sort of going forward a little bit on the expense side? Well I think the 2 big items -- touch on 3 big items that you should think about.
Property taxes last year were 3% and I know this sounds like a broken record that we keep saying they're going to be 4% to 5% but we're pretty confident that they're going to be somewhere between 4% to 5% in 2013.
Property and supervisory payroll will be up slightly probably below 2%.
R&amp;M baseline should be down 2013 but that will be offset in part by snow.
And here in Q1 we're looking at probably $1 million more of snow at least in Q1 than last year.
2012 was a pretty moderate year in terms of weather up until Q4.
And then the big swing item is media advertising and we -- at the current time we expect television will be down $1 million $1.5 million in Q1.
That's a big variable.
That'll depend quarter-to-quarter depending on what's happening to demand and customer volumes.
Your next question comes from the line of Gaurav Mehta with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> You talked about U.K.
a little bit on -- in the prepared remarks.
Can you talk about the European market as to what you are seeing in Europe? Well big picture it's ugly.
Europe's in a -- basically in a recession has been.
It's a very challenging operating environment.
The team over there I will say in 2012 far exceeded my expectations John's expectations.
We expected negative NOI growth in 2012 and yet the team over there produced positive NOI growth which was very very impressive to me.
Our challenging markets over there U.K.
20% VAT tax implemented in October.
And the way we dealt with that is we passed it on to new customers but existing customers we basically absorbed it.
So think of it as taking your in-place rents and writing them down 20% which is -- largely drove the 8% decline in revenue in the U.K.
in Q1.
Overall for the year the U.K.
had a great year with 8% NOI growth despite a tough Q4 but most of the markets in Europe were up.
Our other challenging market continues to be Holland.
My gut is it's bottoming out so it should start to improve but it's a challenging operating environment in Europe.
Does that help? Research Division</strong> Yes that's very helpful and one follow-up question on investing.
In your press release you mentioned that you acquired a conversion property.
Is it the same redevelopment opportunity in Bronx? And are you expecting to see more redevelopment opportunities as you go ahead? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think in the past you've been a little less optimistic about the far-out impact of new supply hitting the industry.
I think you've thought it would come sooner.
What's your current thinking on the supply picture? Well Michael I think we -- last call or maybe it was 2 calls ago we told people we were starting some developments and we're doing that.
That's accelerating.
We are seeing some regional operators across the country start to develop or they have been developing.
Is it in mass quantity? I mean it's pretty miniscule relative to the overall industry supplier -- yes supply product in the industry.
I think though development is inevitable because as acquisitions continue to move above -- significantly above replacement cost certainly in some markets that will precipitate the regional guys looking at that price or at which the acquisitions are trading saying "Hey I can build it for a lot less.
I'll build it fill it up and sell it." So I think it's inevitable.
How much? I don't know.
Today it's pretty small.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then a question on your realized rents I think 3.5% growth in the quarter which was slower than the first part of 2012.
Why do you think there's a slowdown there? Why shouldn't that be going the other way especially if discounts are being reduced et cetera? Michael because we were reducing rental rates to attract more tenants as well as you have to think about the move-outs portion side of the equation.
So even though as Ron mentioned our move-out volume was down the rental rate that they were moving out at versus last year was higher.
So on a net-net basis that brought our net rent down.
That's not surprising that they would move-out at a higher rental rate.
It's because we've been more aggressive increasing their rates over the past 2 years.
But with that said their move-outs velocity if I could say here is slowing down because our move-outs -- the actual numbers are slowing down.
Customers are staying longer.
The tenant base is aging out better and I think you'll see that as we move forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One other quick one out there.
Did you guys ever think you'd see a 76% NOI margin? Thanks Michael.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wolfe with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on Michael's question a moment ago.
Curious as you look at development today I mean what do the development economics look like versus say 2005 and 2006 when we are seeing a bit more of normal supplies in the market? I can't really comment on what yields were for say in 2005 2006.
That's a long time ago.
I could tell you that we're looking probably at somewhere between 9% and 11% today in our kind of ground-up development.
It varies by market.
The other thing that we have in the pipeline is what we call redevelopment where we're taking existing properties that maybe had raw land sitting there where we had cars parked on them and we're building out self-storage or if you take the old Shurgard headquarters -- we're on our what third? Third.
Third redevelopment of that property.
We will be over 2 000? 2 300.
We'll be over 2 300 units when that property is done.
It's unbelievable.
It's in the Lake Union part of Seattle.
So as we redevelop that it continues to fill up and so we're in the process of adding another 75 000 80 000 square feet onto that property.
We've got both developments and redevelopments in the pipeline about $160 million $170 million or so.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That's very helpful.
I guess my second question is obviously the economics sound good from what you're saying maybe it's something specific to your portfolio.
But with where cap rates are today I mean why don't you think we're seeing a bit more ground-up development? Is it just lack of construction financing? It seems like the returns are starting to get there.
So I'm just curious as to why we're not really seeing it quite yet.
Well if you look historically at who has built self-storage and add a product in the industry it really hasn't been the public guys the 4 public companies.
I mean we've added -- extra space was developing.
We've always been developing.
It just hasn't been a meaningful amount but we've been developing even through the downturn and redeveloping properties but we add 10 15 20 properties a year relative to the supply that was added in the early part of the 2000s it's miniscule.
So the new supply has come from the local sharpshooters the local developer and financing in that arena is very very limited.
In fact a lot of the product we bought last year was foreclosures or short sales from guys that had developed in '06 '07 gotten financing and were not able to fill up their properties got crushed and therefore went into some kind of foreclosure.
So I think it'll be quite a while before we see those operators come back into the marketplace and start developing.
And it's the same thing that I've heard in the homebuilding industry.
Large public companies with capital are the ones building homes and the local guys local home developer is pretty much out of the market and I think the same thing applies to self-storage.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Operations question Ron.
Where do street rates today -- I mean you mentioned you were discounting a bit in the first quarter to drive occupancy.
Where do street rates stand kind of on a year-over-year basis? And also just in the context of where you gave some statistics on the number of renewals as we think about the delta between move-in and move-out rates how does that compare currently versus this time last year? Well Mike this is John.
Street rates I think today our street rates are probably down about 2% to 3%.
Notwithstanding that I would tell you that the move-in rate's probably still flat.
So there's a different rate that people are actually moving in vis-à-vis what we're asking.
As for your question on move-ins move-outs our move-ins right now are I would say probably a little down compared to last year as we move forward.
And that's due to the fact that we're more occupied and we're giving away less discounts and we're doing less television.
So we're not surprised by what's going on with the move-ins slowing down.
We can probably ramp that up if we reverse course on our pricing and our promotions.
Move-outs though what we're seeing is again as I mentioned earlier people are staying longer.
So that's a huge benefit for us because more people are starting to fall into the bucket of being here long enough for us to now send them a rental rate increase for an annual renewal.
LLC Research Division</strong> As they stay longer are you seeing that gap then when they do move out widen? In terms of rate the rental rate? LLC Research Division</strong> The delta between a move-in and a move-out rate.
Yes it does widen because one we're really increasing rates to the existing tenant base while the move-in guy is not really getting his rate moved up.
Remember they're coming in flat while the move-out is going out at a higher rate.
So on a net-net basis yes we basically rent-roll down on that equation.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Ron it looks like the quarterly acquisition volumes have been slowly moving up as you kind of went throughout 2012.
I mean what's the expectation as you move into 2013? Are you still seeing I guess more product than you were this time last year? Well Q1's not a high-volume quarter for new product coming to the marketplace.
So it's a little hard for me to say what is going to happen in 2013 other than the amount and pricing of financing for acquisitions continues to improve meaning there's more capital at lower prices chasing deals and so I think it's going to be a challenging very competitive acquisition environment in 2013.
That's one more reason why we're expanding our development program.
Research Division</strong> Got it and did you say how big how much in terms of development you have dollar-wise in terms of total projects up and running at this point? Yes well we got stuff that's under construction stuff where we've pulled the trigger.
We're -- I mean we're going to start any day and then stuff where we're kind of in the permitting process.
If you add all of that together it's somewhere between $160 million $170 million.
It will come online in 2013 2014 and that's today.
It changes every week.
That's a combination of -- Mike that's a combination of kind of new developments as well as expansions modifications of existing properties.
We touched on -- we're on our third expansion of the old Shurgard headquarters.
Your next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You did make some comments earlier about the U.K.
and the VAT taxes.
I'm just wondering what you're hearing domestically in the U.S.
in regards to states starting to put sales tax onto self-storage? Well that's been -- I mean that's an ongoing thing that's -- for the last decade 15 years I think Philadelphia's got a sales tax on self-storage and has for 15 or so years.
So there's always various initiatives across the country.
We work closely with other operators in the self-storage association to try to mitigate or prevent that from happening but it's an ongoing thing has been for years.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But the movement doesn't sound like it's getting a little bit more probable or less probable.
Is it kind of like same as usual a lot of conversations? I wouldn't say it's changed.
It's an ongoing thing from -- I mean a town in Illinois last year Rhode Island I think tried it.
California tried it.
So it's ongoing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then if you could also just give us your thoughts on if you think Prop 13 could actually happen or whether commercial real estate is kind of exempt from it and what the potential impact could be on PSA? I have no idea.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ron wanted to ask about your tenant insurance business.
Your margins on an after-tax basis I believe are -- I think your margin has been about 80% over time.
Just curious how that's so high and is there any risk that maybe there's some tax yields that burn off eventually that's embedded in that number? No Michael.
We've been running the tenant insurance business the same way for -- well even before Public Storage bought it.
So I don't think that's a concern at this time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Margin is after-tax correct? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Ron can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing on the transaction front? And also if activity were to exceed cash generated from operations in '13 would you look to the preferred markets or to the equity markets or even the debt markets there as a source of funding and where the stock price is trading today? Well Mike I think I touched on acquisition activity.
Someone else asked that question in terms of acquisitions the amount of financing available out there and I think it'll be a competitive market.
There's not a lot of deals in the market today.
Q1's usually a pretty slow quarter so that -- we'll see how the year unfolds.
I hope there's activity.
I hope that's a reason price will participate but we'll see as the year unfolds.
With respect to how we'll raise capital we have several billion dollars of preferred capacity.
Each new issue seems to be -- we test new rates.
I hope one of these days we break a 5 handle on preferred.
So we'll continue to test that and see if we can continue to raise very low coupon preferred stock going forward.
The final question comes from the line of David Harris with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just sneaked in there.
Ron a couple of questions on development if I may.
One of the challenges of development in your space has been the long stabilization period.
Is there anything different about what -- these project that you've got on stock or should we be still thinking of what 2 years? Yes David it really depends on the size of their property.
Yes the typical self-storage property kind of the old genre was 500 to 600 units 50 000 to 60 000 square feet 2.5 to 3 years to stabilization.
Some of the properties we're building like the one in the Bronx is much larger.
My guess will be that'll be -- that could be a 4-year stabilization period and some of the projects that we have under way are add-ons to existing properties where you already have a good customer flow and so that could be much shorter.
It really depends on the size of the property.
If you take the basic model of 500 to 600 units 2.5 to 3 years that kind of fill up generally applies just adjusting for size.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And to be clear none of these developments are in Europe? No.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
It's all in the U.S.
Any particular geography or is it just kind of they're one-offs opportunistic as per the specific locations rather than an attempt to build up more in Florida or California? One-off opportunistic.
We do have a question from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Real quick just following up on the development redevelopment.
Of that $160 million you mentioned what's a rough split between new development and then the redevelopment expansion and what are order target of returns for the aggregate? Well the targeted -- I wouldn't say there's a targeted return Mike because it depends on the property the opportunity.
So if I were to say what are we looking for it's somewhere between 8% and 10% stabilized assuming some costs for fill up.
We've got if I add it up here probably about 7 or 8 that you would consider kind of ground-up developments or conversions and then the balance are -- and we've got about 25 properties here.
The balance are some form of expansion or modification of an existing property.
Research Division</strong> So dollar-wise maybe 1/3 of it is new development and 2/3 expansions? About 100 new and 60 expansions.
Research Division</strong> Okay the opposite.
Yes.
That was our final question.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to Clem for any closing remarks.
I want to thank everybody for attending our conference call this morning and we look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Have a good afternoon.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Public Storage First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Clem Teng.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our first quarter earnings call.
Here with me today are Ron Havner and John Reyes.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this conference call are forward-looking statements subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.
These risks and other factors that could adversely affect our business and future results are described in today's earnings press release and in our reports filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of today May 10 2013 and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A reconciliation to GAAP of the non-GAAP financial measures we are providing on this call is included in our earnings press release.
You can find our press release SEC reports and the audio webcast replay of this conference call on our website at www.publicstorage.com.
I'll turn the call over to Ron.
Thank you Clem.
The first quarter benefited from solid demand resulting in record-high occupancies and a higher realized rent.
Net customer acquisition cost declined $2 per customer versus $31 per customer in 2012.
Charlotte Denver and New York markets our leading markets growing by over 8%.
Los Angeles our largest market grew by 5.5%.
And San Francisco our second largest market increased by 6%.
At the end of April occupancy and in-place rents were higher than last year.
In the second quarter we expect lower media and Yellow Page spend due to our record-high occupancies.
In Europe same-store NOI declined by 1%.
The U.K.
market continues to be negatively impacted by the VAT that was introduced last October.
Q1 NOI declined by 8% in that market.
We have acquired or have under contract 3 facilities.
We also have about $170 million of project under development or redevelopment.
With that operator let's open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Gaurav Mehta from Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> A question on your expenses.
If you look at your same-store expenses your expenses have been going down for last couple of years I guess.
So when you look at your expenses today do you think the 1Q number reflects the long-term run rate for you guys or you think there's more expense savings ahead? Gaurav this is Ron.
I think we tell people long term you should assume a 3% to 4% expense increase longer term.
I think what we've benefited from the last couple of years and in particular Q1 again is lower advertising media cost lower Yellow Page cost.
As I touched on earlier we expect Q2 expenses in that area to also be lower.
The other big swing items were repairs and maintenance.
And if you recall in Q1 of 2012 we had a big surge in R&amp;M and so we kind of got easier comps this quarter versus last year.
That was partially offset by snow removal cost in Q1 and you should expect to see an uptick in snow removal cost in Q2 offset by somewhat lower core R&amp;M expenses.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful and one follow-up question.
In your prepared remarks you touched upon the markets that outperformed.
Could you also talk about the markets that did not meet your expectations? Yes.
The 2 that come to mind are the D.C./Northern Virginia markets which I think the growth is 2% to 3% and Philadelphia is about 1.5%.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas of KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> Ron over the last few years I believe Public Storage has attempted to raise rates to new customers during each of the last couple of cycles but the pricing power wasn't really there so the industry as a whole was filling up a bit.
But it seems like the industry now and the other storage REITs are more stabilized from an occupancy perspective and so I was just wondering based on what you're seeing if you think that the industry sort of on a broad level be able to sustain increases in asking rent this season and since we're maybe halfway through May maybe you can shed some light on what you're seeing so far.
Todd this is John actually not Ron.
Right now our street rates are about flat year-over-year which is consistent with kind of your comment about what we've been talking about over the past conference calls.
With our occupancies as high as they are we are certainly going to try to push our street rates as we move into -- further into May and into June.
So we'll test those waters again.
And to the extent that they stick and our occupancies stick we'll certainly be happy with that.
But to the extent that we start losing occupancy we will probably backtrack off of that.
So we haven't started doing it but plan on doing it fairly soon and we'll see how it goes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question I was just curious within Shurgard Europe what the strategy is like there with demand declining a bit.
Occupancy was lower year-over-year but realized rates were higher.
And I'm just curious if you could talk about the strategy to stabilize operations in Europe a bit.
Yes Todd.
The big laggard for us in Europe continues to be Holland which is one of our larger markets.
We've got in the same-store group 30 properties out of 163.
So about 20% of the same-store properties and that same-store group is down to 70% occupancy.
We've done some experimenting there with some pretty aggressive rate reductions and in fact we've got a test going on right now with what I would call draconian rate reductions to see if we can stimulate demand for our product.
So that's the big one that's influencing really the drag there on the same-store property.
Our next question comes from the line of David Harris of Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> I noticed the CapEx spend for the quarter was significantly lower this quarter and way below the sort of run rate for what you booked in '12.
Is that just seasonal? Yes.
This year -- recall last year we had a pretty mild winter and we accelerated CapEx as well as R&amp;M.
This year much different weather lot more snow rain across the country so it pushed back some of the CapEx spend.
But we're not expecting a material change in the normalized CapEx this year versus prior years.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on your preferred you're next preferred stock that I think is callable is April '15 which is obviously quite a gap.
I mean I know you probably don't want to talk about your prospects of the issuance but I'm just wondering if you might be tempted given if rates stay low to issue to help fund say development or acquisition activities? Or would you wait until the next series of preferred is due? Well I seriously doubt we'll wait until the next preferred before we issue another preferred.
Because that would be another 2 years out before we issue another preferred.
And I would hope that we would be able to invest the excess cash that we have on our balance sheet between now and then a lot sooner before then.
So I would expect us to be out in the market issuing preferred in sometime in the near future to continue to put some capital on the balance sheet at these historic low coupons.
So we can build a fund to continue to develop and buy properties.
With high yield piercing the 5% range we've touched a couple of times in the call about trying to do a 4% preferred and the probability of that seems to increase each and every month.
So...
LLC Research Division</strong> Looks like it's coming your way Ron.
It is.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just Ron just curious.
Looking back on acquisition activity over the past 2 years you guys haven't grown as much through acquisitions relative to the size as your peers.
Just curious how you grade yourself given how well the asset classes performed over that time period? And then looking forward do you guys still think that you're going to be acquiring at kind of this pretty slow pace? Well Michael the -- acquiring the same percentage as the public comps you kind of run into a mathematical problem there given our size.
So no one should expect us to acquire the same percentage of our asset base as the smaller public company.
In terms of what we've acquired over the last couple of years I'd have to say David Doll and his team have done an outstanding job.
If you look at our 2010 acquisitions I think for the most part they're north of a 10% cash on cash excluding 10 in insurance and merchandise that's a well 100 150 basis points north of what we underwrote them.
The 2011 acquisitions are doing great as well.
So the stuff that we bought it's been great great product great return on investment of capital and we plan to continue to remain disciplined buyers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Does that suggest your return thresholds are kind of 8.5% type return? Is that just subtracting 150 bps from 10 there's no doubt those are great acquisitions.
Just curious if that math is about right is that return hurdle too high to grow as much as you might need to? Well I don't know that I need to grow but the -- in terms of the returns that's what we underwrote them for in 2010.
What we underwrite today is different and it varies by market in terms of what replacement cost is what we think the growth potential is by market.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess looking at your occupancy it's hovering around 80% and you talked about a little bit about Holland.
But even before the downturn it was running lower than the U.S.
And I was just wondering I mean when you look at the disparity between the U.S.
and Europe do you think there's something structural there where maybe you just don't have as big a pool of tenants and that's going to keep occupancy always lower? Or is it really the economics of what's going on today? Well Michael I'm sure the economy over in Europe is having some impact on our business.
But recall in Europe we're in 7 different countries and a number of markets in those countries.
So in Europe we have nowhere near the scale the brand recognition or the customer awareness that we have here in the U.S.
Television is uneconomical for the most part for us in Europe because the portfolio is spread across multiple markets multiple languages.
And to put that in perspective we have more properties in Los Angeles than we have in all of Europe okay? So we just don't have the ability to drive the brand the whole [ph]  customer awareness in Europe.
Western Europe itself has 1 400 1 500 facilities 800 of them in Great Britain.
And for the most part in the continent self-storage is a relatively small unknown business.
Having said that I mean we've done well and the return on capital's pretty darn good and the team over there I think operating the business has done a pretty exceptional job.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And one other quick one.
John sequential G&amp;A picked up pretty significantly.
I was wondering if you can just talk about what was happening in the first quarter.
On the first quarter Mike on a year-over-year basis our G&amp;A was mostly up because we had about $1.7 million $1.8 million of severance cost.
That was a nonrecurring cost that hit this year that wasn't there last year.
So that's the uptick that you're seeing on a year-over-year basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky of RBC Capital Market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Ron I think you mentioned $160 million in development or in redevelopment.
How big do you plan to grow that pipeline? And also as you look at the $400 million of cash on the balance sheet is that development  pre-funding or is that more reflective of the acquisition opportunities you're seeing in the market? Well I think Mike John touched on it.
We hope to be able to deploy that capital and actually go back into the preferred market and deploy that capital both for development and acquisitions.
And the development pipeline as you touched on I said it's $170 million or so.
I expect that that will continue to ramp up over the next year to 2 years.
What the stabilized rate's going to be I can't tell you at this time.
Because as that ramps up there'll be properties coming online that'll come in and out of that pool.
So I can't predict what the absolute level's going to be but it'll be higher than $170 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just as a follow-up to that as you look -- as you're underwriting new development versus acquisitions what spread premium do you need given the 3- to 4-year lease up there? Well the way we underwrite developments is we factor in the lease up reserve and kind of cost of money to do that.
And the fill up time and the fill up time varies by the size of the property.
I think on average our developments are coming in what? 150 -- at least 200 basis points north of the acquisitions.
Our next question comes from the line of Paula Poskon of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Ron are you seeing any better acceptability than this industry has historically seen around neighborhood concerns of "not in my backyard " just given the dearth of new supply are you finding that municipalities are more welcoming? Well Paula we're really just ramping up the development program.
I've got David Doll here so I'll let him touch a little bit.
But I know over the years like here in Southern California there's 2 communities that for 5-plus years have had a ban on self-storage Pasadena and Long Beach.
But I mean you can't build them in those markets in those particular cities.
And that's really because -- they put those bans in because we don't generate sales tax we don't provide housing and we don't generate a lot of jobs in self-storage.
So those municipalities have wanted the densification of either one in apartments or retail for space not self-storage.
Dave any thoughts on kind of zoning issues that you've...
No I think as Ron mentioned it those are old legacy issues that quality of the architecture can ban some of those.
The fact that there aren't a lot of retail uses in the marketplace today for what historically has been retail properties is starting to get us through some of those hurdles that have been thrown up over the years.
So as long as there's not a great retail demand I think that there'll be some great opportunities for us out there.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick question.
I mean we had higher taxes going for consumers in January.
Your numbers still look very very good despite that.
Just kind of curious over the past 3 to 9 months if you could talk about any meaningful changes you've just generally seen with regards to consumer behavior and their demand for self-storage space just how they behaved in the past.
I'll let John amplify this.
I mean we haven't seen any discernible adverse behavior.
Demand for the product is good and I think you've seen it with the other public self-storage companies it's kind of across the entire industry and across multiple markets demand is pretty solid for the product across multiple platforms and multiple markets.
So I mean it's cross-country in terms of pretty solid demand.
John? Tayo demand into our system is down.
I would attribute that mostly to the fact that we've scaled back on our advertising campaigns combine that with the fact that our call volumes down because generally people call multiple times before they actually rent a space and part of the problem which is kind of a good problem in some respects is that we're pretty full.
So we don't have as much inventory to sell.
So we can't quite satisfy all the demand that's coming into our call center or our website.
And so we have scaled back the advertising which has kind of slowed down at least the amount of calls and hits to our website.
But I would not attribute that necessarily to the increased taxes that had rolled in or anything of that nature.
I mean I'm not that smart to figure that out.
I'm mostly attributing that to the fact that we are scaling back on marketing campaigns as well as the fact that we don't have as much inventory to sell as we did last year.
Our next question is a follow up from Michael Knott of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wondering if you can maybe comment on the realized rent profile and the growth there as you head into the prime rental season.
Obviously you're really well positioned from an occupancy standpoint.
I think the rental growth has been about -- could be really positioned to really start pushing rents with how high your occupancy is as you head into rental season.
Do you think...
Michael you're cutting out on your question.
So could you repeat it? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sorry about that.
The question is just really on realized rent growth.
Do you think as we head into the prime rental season that -- it seems like you're really well positioned to maybe have some of the best realized rent growth you've ever had in your company's history.
Do you feel like pricing power is that strong or is that too optimistic of a sentiment? Well Michael I'll let John amplify this since he runs all the revenue and the pricing.
Earlier in the call I touched on our customer acquisition cost being down to $2 per new customer versus $31 last year.
And if you recall customer acquisition cost the way we define it consist of 2 things: our marketing cost which is the Yellow Pages the phone center Internet advertising television; as well as promotional discounts principally the $1 special that we offer new customers.
And if you look at the combined total of those 2 numbers in Q1 it was about $27 million versus $33 million last year.
And that's split between -- that decrease of about $6 million is about 50% reduced media Yellow Page costs and 50% reduced dollar specials.
So -- and that the reduced dollar specials go right into the realized rent per foot line.
So we've had about a 15% 16% reduction in the dollar specials that we offer we gave out in the Q1.
John pricing? Right.
So what Ron was talking about is an effective increase to the incoming tenant by reducing for discounts.
I think Todd Thomas had asked earlier about pushing street rates and my comment was that I'm going to try to push the street rates.
But I'll tell you I'm not real optimistic that we're going to be able to push much because our experience has been as that that as we push street rates most of our competition is not coming with us.
So my guess is they just want to purely grow their revenues on occupancy gains as opposed to the new incoming tenant in terms of pushing the absolute street rate.
So Michael as we move forward I mean really where I expect our revenue growth to come from is still the occupancy spreads the reduced discounts that Ron talked about as well as and the biggest part is going to be the renewals the annual increases that we send to our existing tenants because we're able to be very aggressive with them.
And we're finding that they're still very sticky sticking around and paying those higher rates notwithstanding the fact that a good chunk of our tenant base is paying well above current street rates today.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's interesting.
And then a follow-up question would just be it sounds like the entire State of California performed below the portfolio average including Northern California.
Can you just maybe touch on what you see in Northern Cal and Southern Cal and maybe what in particular might help Southern California perform better? Well I think L.A.
I think I mentioned grew top line 5.5% which I think is consistent with the same-store pool at 5.5%.
And then San Francisco was up 6% just 50 bps north of the same-store pool average.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I thought you were giving those numbers on the NOI line.
No the rent revenue line.
Revenue line I'm sorry.
On the NOI line Michael it's kind of outlined in our 10-Q.
Los Angeles was up 8.5%; San Francisco up 9.4%.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> John just to follow up to the leasing questions.
What percentage of your tenant base is applicable for a rent increase this year? And how does that compare to last year going into peak leasing season? Well if you -- we generally send them to tenants that have been here longer than a year.
And roughly about 56% or 55% of our tenant base has been here longer than a year.
And that's fairly consistent with last year.
In terms of absolute numbers however I think we're slightly higher in terms of the number of tenants that have been here longer than a year so we're up a little bit there.
But what we're going to do is be a little more aggressive actually on the absolute percentage increase to the tenants versus last year.
So again roughly 55%.
As the year progresses however we will probably send out increases somewhere in the neighborhood of 70% to 75% of the tenant base we'll get them.
Because I'm telling you they're aging at a point in time and as each month goes by an additional group of tenants becomes aged past a year so we will send them increases also.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman of Citi.
Research Division</strong> John what percentage of your customers -- or maybe just on NOI is paying above street rates? I don't have that particular number.
But I would say it's a fairly significant number of our tenants are paying above street rates.
And it varies too in terms of the street rates because that differential between street rates because street rates fluctuate with seasonality so that differential narrows quite a bit during the summer months and then widens again during the winter months.
So we're getting into the summer months so our street rates are rising so that the differential is starting to narrow and will continue to narrow until we kind of I think peak somewhere in July August.
And then that'll start widening out again.
That's been the case for many I would say the past 5 years so there's nothing new.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And at that spread in terms of that like 5% or 10% above sort of street does that make you buzz? Yes again it varies all over the place.
And it depends on the time of the year and I couldn't tell you exactly where it is today.
Research Division</strong> And just thinking about where occupancy was at the end of the quarter and sort of just talking a little bit about what's been happening in April and early May just as your occupancy comps do become extraordinarily more difficult than in -- as we move to the second quarter and the back half of the year relative to last year.
So I'm just kind of curious if -- last year it was 92.6% in the second quarter where are you sort of trending in the first half of the quarter right now? Well Michael at the end of April our occupancy was 93% versus 91.4% last year.
Research Division</strong> But you're still a little bit -- so you even -- even though last year in the second quarter you averaged 93.1% for the quarter in April it was much less? No.
This April we're at 93%.
Last April we were at 91.4%.
So if you're -- and that's just for April.
May June I mean we'll tell you what happens but I think your question is "Okay what's the trend going into Q2?" The occupancy spread is still there we're nicely ahead of last year and into the rental season.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes I would have thought last -- second quarter last year you were at 92.6%.
So I guess I was surprised to hear that you were at 91.4% in April of last year.
So...
No it trends up each month.
It trends up quite a bit Michael.
So in May and June we were a little above 93% last year.
So I think your point is which is a valid point is that the occupancy spread that we've experienced in Q1 even though Ron's telling you that it was still there during April it's going to tighten up when we get into May and to June.
So that for the full second quarter I don't expect our occupancy spread to be the same or a similar spread that we experienced in Q1.
Research Division</strong> That what I was just trying to hone in on.
Yes I mean look it gets really tough to get above 93% occupancy because we have -- kind of have this frictional vacancy.
When you have roughly 7% of your portfolio vacating each and every month and -- they're month-to-month leases we don't pre-lease a space because we don't know which -- who's going to move out they don't necessarily stand up and tell us they just move out.
We have this kind of a frictional vacancy of about 6% to 7%.
So it's really tough for us for anyone I think to get past 93% occupied.
Not that it can't happen because we have obviously we average 93%.
So there's a lot of our properties that are well above 93% but as a full system it's very difficult.
Research Division</strong> Have you noticed a change in the types of customers that are coming? Or in the types of goods that are being stored? I can't tell you that Michael because I just don't know.
I mean I could tell you that customers are staying longer.
They're more sticky than they have been in the past.
Research Division</strong> Nothing about the new customer that's coming in that differentiates it or the type of demand that you're seeing? Michael the great thing about our business is we serve everyone for a wide variety of needs.
Your final question comes from the line of Michael Knott of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ron I was just curious if you have that statistic that you've given before speaking of the tenants staying longer.
The percent of tenants that have been there over a year this quarter compared to last year's first quarter? Yes Michael.
The actual percentage this quarter is 55.4% versus 56.1% last year and that is in part attributable to the fact that we have more customers so the absolute number of customers that have been here longer than a year is up about 2 100 versus last year.
So it's a slightly smaller percentage of the portfolio.
The portfolio's grown so it's reduced that percentage.
It'll age out and move up.
But the absolute number of customers greater than a year as of today or as of the end of the quarter was up about 2 100 year-over-year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then last question is just on the idea of the advantages that the big operators have over smaller operators and the ability to spend on mobile and the Internet.
What's your current view on that? Is that advantage widening or is it -- where do you stand on that? Well I mean I think in our business Michael there are economies of scale it's definitely economies of scale.
I think even among -- if you compare Public Storage to some of our smaller public companies I'm sure there's differences in Internet spend media spend and how it's allocated on a property-by-property basis.
So I have to believe that when you talk about the mom-and-pops out there trying to compete on the Internet it's probably fairly expensive on like on a per click or per move-in cost relative to some of the public guys.
And you're seeing a lot of the mom-and-pops kind of jumped into bed with aggregators and there's a couple of aggregators that are just now popping up in the self-storage space who are gathering together a lot of the mom-and-pops to help basically help them compete in keyword search relevancy and I'm sure cost per clicks and cost per move-ins.
Your final question comes from the line of Todd Thomas of KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> It's Jordan Sadler.
John just wanted to dig back into one comment regarding pricing and the ability to push rate.
You made a comment along the lines of not having necessarily the confidence to push rate.
I don't want to put words in your mouth but because the industry tends to not come along with you.
And I'm just kind of curious about that.
Is that -- do you think -- is that going to be perpetual or at what point does that change or can it change? And then in that same context have you thought about I'm sure you have but how do you sort of think about using media or advertising as a lever to continue to drive traffic despite the fact that your occupancy is high if you're trying to push rate? Well let me touch on the media part.
We've scaled back on media not because the media or television doesn't work.
It works and it's a very competitive advantage that Public Storage has because we could afford to be on television whereas many of our competitors cannot.
The reason why we scaled back is obviously on an ROI basis media doesn't pencil out because of our occupancies.
We'll get a lot of call volume in but we just can't satisfy the demand and we thought of geez this generates a lot of demand with media and therefore we can charge higher prices.
That just doesn't hold water.
People shop around.
They shop off of our website.
I think something like 70% of our move-in traffic tell us that they've been to our website which kind of tells me they're shopping around.
Whether they made a reservation or just walked in they still go to the websites and they're shopping.
So going down the path of spending more media to drive more demand thinking that you're going to get better pricing within our system it just doesn't really doesn't work.
When I was talking about pricing and I'm trying to push pricing I'm talking about street rates because I'm confident we could push pricing to our existing tenants but in terms of pushing them to new customers via higher street rates part of the problem that we've had there is that our competition doesn't really tend to move much.
So as we're driving rates competition doesn't do that and we start experiencing a drop-off in move-in volumes.
And that bothers me in the sense that I don't want to be losing occupancy.
When does that change? I don't know ask the other guys.
But I suspect it changes at some point in time when they get to occupancy levels that they're comfortable with and then they want to start pushing rates too.
Research Division</strong> And just on the promotions I may have missed this what percent have you -- were you able to sort of pull off year-over-year? In the first quarter we were probably down about 18% in terms of absolute dollar reduction and discount.
We're going to continue to see how far we can continue to reduce discounts.
I mean we give away I mean I think last year alone we gave away almost about $90 million of discounts.
So it's a fairly large number that we're going to try to chip away at.
It's not going to 0.
It's not going to go to half of that amount but we'll continue to chip away at that.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will now return the call to Clem Teng for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you everybody for attending our conference call this morning and we'll speak to you next quarter.
Have a good afternoon.
Thank you for participating in the Public Storage first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Public Storage Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Clem Teng.
Mr.
Teng please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you Jackie.
Thank you all for joining us this morning for our second quarter earnings call.
Here with me today are Ron Havner and John Reyes.
As a reminder all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this conference call are forward-looking statements subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.
These risks and other factors that could adversely affect our business and future results are described in today's earnings press release and in our reports filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of August 2 2013 and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A reconciliation to GAAP of the non-GAAP financial measures we are providing on this call is included in our earnings press release.
You can find our press release SEC reports and audio webcast replay of this conference call on our website at www.publicstorage.com.
I'll turn the call over to Ron.
Thank you Clem.
We put out our press release last night.
I think we had a pretty good quarter.
So we're just going to open it up for questions right away here.
So operator let's tee up the first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with UBS.
Research Division</strong> John on last quarter's call you talked at length about the difficulty of achieving occupancy above the 93% level at -- within the portfolio because of the 7% churn per month that causes frictional vacancy of 6% to 7%.
Here you sit 3 months later at 95% occupancy.
You also changed up your strategy through the winter where you offered some different promotions like the 50% off rent deals that you could boost occupancy in the seasonally slow quarters and then -- so I actually have 2 questions about all of that.
Have you changed your views around frictional occupancy for your portfolio? And then the second question is have you tried to jack up the rents back to market on those 50% off customers? And how did that impact move-outs in Q2? I guess first Christy I was wrong in what I had said about frictional occupancy and our difficulties getting beyond the 93% occupancy because obviously we did that.
So I stand corrected.
We're able to do that.
It was mostly done because demand was exceptionally strong notwithstanding the fact that we kept our rent -- rates were a little bit higher but not much higher but we significantly reduced our discounting during the second quarter.
But fortunately for us demand continued to press into the system and we continued to gain occupancy throughout the quarter.
So -- but I do think though that over the course of a full year I would not expect us to maintain occupancy levels of 95% through the remainder of the year.
That I think is just not not likely.
In terms of churn and the promotional -- the 50% off thing promotions that we were doing.
We have done those as you've mentioned.
We did it during the winter.
We also did it during -- around the Memorial Day timeframe which does help boost demand for our product and occupancy.
We like doing that because it -- notwithstanding the fact that you're giving away 50% of the rent we make -- more than make up with -- for it with improved demand coming into the system.
Not only is that demand sufficient to offset the reduction in the rate but that demand is also customers that typically stay here longer because they're not -- their rates are low.
They're not -- and we also turn off the dollar for those folks and they typically stay here longer which gives us another pool of customers who eventually increase their rates in the future because remember it's month-to-month lease and we're just giving 50% off.
It's not 50% off for a year.
It's not 50% off for a month.
It's 50% off until we decide to raise their rents.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow-up on that.
Can you quantify the year-over-year change in discounts? You mentioned they were down significantly and then also if you can talk about the...
In terms of percentage year-over-year percentage change they were down about 13% during the quarter.
Research Division</strong> And do you also have the year-over-year percentage change in move-ins and move-outs just to get a sense for traffic? Yes move-ins were about flat with -- and I'll tell you what the move-in rates were.
The move-in rates were roughly about 1.5% higher.
Move-outs were down about 0.7%.
Christy I would just add that John and his team did the pricing and marketing strategies but our field operations people did a great job this quarter executing.
So you don't get to 95% without great execution in the field.
Your next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions a similar line on the occupancy.
What percent are now considered your long-term customers and is that one of the drivers here? Yes Jordan our customers greater than a year.
Here let's see they were -- the pool of those was up 5 000 for year-over-year.
So we're at just about 60% -- 55% 55% in the pool greater than a year.
Not much changed in the percentage but the number of customers has gone up because the overall occupancy of the portfolio has gone up.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay you maintained the ratio.
In terms of customer acquisition costs I think last quarter you mentioned $2 versus $31 in 1Q did that actually go negative this quarter or what happened? Yes actually net-net Jordan between initial rate and all that we actually went positive.
So our net acquisition cost was $28 positive per customer and that's due to -- we were able to reduce our acquisition cost by about $7 million and hold volumes constant or up slightly as John mentioned earlier.
Hold rate up about 1% 1.2%.
Net-net we actually went positive which is the first time I've only got like the last 3 4 years of data but that's the first time in the last 4 years we've been positive.
Research Division</strong> Do you happen to know what it was 2Q of '12? Q2 of 2012 yes it was negative 24%.
Research Division</strong> 24%? Okay.
Last question is just on the acquisition pipe you've got quite a bit teed up here.
I'm just curious about what's driving sort of the activity is it a portfolio pricing? Yes I think I've said a couple of times this year the sellers' market there's lots of capital lots of financing and what we're seeing is higher quality portfolios come to the market as a result of that.
Research Division</strong> Where are these relative to replacement cost? It varies by transaction some are above some are at some are below.
Your next question comes from the line of with Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust Robinson.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Going back here occupancy of 95% did you change -- besides changing discounts which you guys do frequently did you change anything about the way you advertise in the Internet or how you acquire customers fundamentally to drive that 95%? And with the occupancy being so high do you plan to change at all the amount of -- or level of frequency of existing rate customer increases or increasing the customers? Okay I'll let John talk about Internet strategy.
For the last 2 years though our customer acquisition costs have been going down.
Jordan just kind of touched on that.
So if you look at Q2 this year we spent about $5.5 million on Internet and media and that compares to $8.3 million last year.
So we're spending less on Internet and media and we basically extricated ourselves from the Yellow Pages combined with lower promotional discounts meaning lower upfront dollar specials and yet we're able to hold move-in volume relatively constant year-over-year.
With respect to Internet strategies...
Yes here Internet strategy I would tell you this I mean really hasn't changed other than we've cut back the spend because we simply don't need as much volume coming to our website as we used to given our occupancy levels.
So what that's enabled us to do is basically cut back on our positioning and our bid so that we don't view it necessary to necessarily be in the #1 position on certain keyword searches so we're not bidding as aggressively as we used to and again it's simply because we don't really need as much volume coming to the website.
The volume that's coming to the website is more than sufficient to maintain the move-in levels that we need to maintain our occupancy levels and grow the occupancy levels.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well so it seems like you're spending less yet maintaining or increasing your success rate.
Have you shifted the dollars to maybe more mobile versus just generic Google searches that you find more success in? Does that explain any of it at all? Well we are spending more on mobile just because mobile is gaining in popularity and we're getting more traffic through the mobile.
So that's naturally coming causing us to spend more in mobile but it's more of a shift from the desktop to the mobile and overall -- then if you look at overall the overall cost is actually coming down.
But yes we are spending more in mobile but it's been more than offset by the decrease that we're spending on the desktop.
Your next question comes from the line of Neil Malkin with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
One I guess going back to the whole occupancy and business model strategy I mean with occupancy at record levels are you kind of looking at it differently whereas just because street rates can be so volatile and the cost can be higher just having a higher occupancy reducing volatility throughout the year and just hitting people with those larger renewal increases and then if the incremental renter does come in you can give less discounting and that will also help with expenses as well if you're not marketing as many people.
I mean is that something I guess rhetorically you're thinking about or is it just a function of the demand for the quarter? That's kind of what's been going on.
I think that's what's historically you've been seeing is that with the high occupancies we've been able to cut back on marketing spend because we don't need the volume coming into the system.
So you're seeing our expense structure in marketing as Ron mentioned coming down.
With high occupancies we're able to now start turning down the discounting that we're getting -- we're giving away excuse me which is a good thing because obviously it drops to the revenue.
It helps the revenue line and it's also a good thing because you start filtering out those customers who are simply coming for 1 month because you're giving $1 and they're churning on you constantly.
So that's good too because we're not experiencing as much churn as we used to experience and you're getting a better length of stay from the customer base which again all of that stuff is just good stuff.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes sure.
I mean that makes sense.
And then on the acquisition front you guys have a pretty sizable acquisition lined up relative to what you've done in the last several quarters.
I mean the rationale for that is you're just seeing I guess first of all Cap rates are they looking more attractive to you even though the market has a lot more competition just because of the fundamentals? Is it pressure from various investors or sell-side analysts which I doubt? But -- and then also on the one that extra space has did you look at that at all? Were you bidding on them on that one against them? Well let me just comment on the acquisition market and I touched on this earlier.
I think Jordan asked this question.
At the sellers market there's lots of capital out there whether it's the public REITs private capital.
There's plenty of financing especially on stabilized properties.
Unstabilized properties are properties that fill up a little more challenging for people to get financing.
We have found that typically to be the better opportunities but it is a sellers' market generally and I think that's bringing out -- for the right sellers that's bringing out higher quality portfolios than we've seen in some time and so we're actively looking at those and obviously acquiring some of them.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay but so then I guess going forward would you look at more the value like the lease-up type of thing or core? We're flexible.
We buy properties that are 0% occupied and fill up.
We're buying stabilized properties.
We're buying properties that have been under-managed.
So it's across the board as well as deploying capital in redevelopments and our development program.
So it's really -- we're almost market agnostic.
If the right opportunity's there we will undertake it the right pricing and we're not really concerned about okay what does it do for next quarter's earnings.
We're really trying to create value here long term.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay can you say what the cap rate was or is going to be on that transaction? They're all over the board.
We've got stuff from 0 cap rate because one property's still being built to 7% or 8% on a stabilized property.
It's all over the board.
Your next question comes on the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to focus on Europe a little bit if you could just kind of give us some commentary about why same-store NOIs got worse and kind of what operating trends look like there and then which particular markets you're seeing kind of a worsening outlook? Well Tayo it's really the same 2 culprits.
Holland continues to decline in occupancy and rate and its NOI for the quarter was down 16%.
The other market was the U.K.
where the -- that was implemented last October 1 and we effectively took down the existing customer base by 20%.
So new customers are rolling in at higher rates when rent roll-up in that market but it's going to take time for that to roll up.
So our U.K.
top-line revenue was down 11% this quarter and NOI in the U.K.
market was down 18%.
So those are the 2 big drivers for the negative performance in Europe and I would expect another challenging quarter in Q3.
Where it comes in at I don't know but I don't think Q3's going to be much better.
When we get to Q4 at least in the U.K.
recall we implemented the VAT roll_down October 1.
So hopefully we'll be positive comping in the U.K.
in Q4 whether that's enough to offset Holland I don't know but Q4 U.K.
should be positive.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Just about the U.K.
real quick.
I mean were you the only ones in that market that implemented a VAT roll-down or do you think generally across the industry that happened? Different operators did different things.
One operator already had been passing through the VAT.
So it was basically a non-event for them.
I think Big Yellow who's the other large operator did a half roll-down.
So they took a 10% roll-down and they have I think I don't know the exact percentage but I think Big Yellow has a higher percentage of commercial customers than we do.
So it impacted them a little less.
I think it varies by operator.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to ask you about acquisitions one more time.
Just curious if this is a sign that you've got your foot on the gas now on this part of your business or was this sort of a compilation of one-off type transactions? Michael I know we've disappointed you in terms of our acquisition volume but really not much has changed.
As I said we see better product coming to market.
Pricing is aggressive.
It's a sellers' market.
So I don't think substantively much has changed here.
There's just more flow more seller flow into the market.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] on potential new supply across your markets? Michael the first part of whatever you're saying could you repeat what you said? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure sorry.
I was asking about your perspective on potential new supply in your markets and whether that's going to degrade the operating environment anytime soon.
You know what? We're seeing across the market we don't see a lot of development.
Dave Doll's here with me.
We don't see much development in the latest data sources that we've seen that it's pretty nascent.
I would say in terms of just dollar value probably the New York the burroughs is probably the biggest market in the U.S.
where development is going on.
But relative to the densities there versus the amount of product that's still somewhat of an underserved market.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I'm just curious just in terms of July sort of where did occupancies trend and where you were sending out renewals? Yes Michael in terms of the end of July we ended at 94.4% versus 93.1% last year and in-place rents were up a couple of cents a foot in July versus last year.
Research Division</strong> Was there anything noticeable as you sort of went through July in terms of the length of stay from your existing customers? It didn't sound like there was much change move-in move-out in the second quarter.
Did that shift at all as you've been pushing rate and getting more people in? No.
Our move-outs year-over-year changed I think by -- yes less than 1%.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly just on the $374 million of acquisitions and I think you're getting a lot of questions just because you've done $570 million over the last 3.5 years.
So to do $370 million in 1 quarter certainly a lot of lightbulbs went off and so -- and I know you've talked about it being a sluggish market.
Can you please breakdown the $374 million if there was any major transactions in there or any big pieces? And then maybe just in aggregate I'm assuming you have the numbers right $1.63 a foot is the average price.
Do you have sort of the average in-place rents the average occupancy the average margin so we get a sense of that $374 million once it comes in and then work the PSA magic on them to getting them up to par.
Well Michael we've got everything from stabilized properties.
We've got a mixed-use property in West L.A.
That's 90-plus percent full and it's got a 10-year triple-net lease in it that's I don't know trailing 6 6.5 to a property that's still under construction that we won't buy until September October.
So it's all over the board.
I would assume that on a go-forward basis we will attempt to work our magic actually not attempt we will work our magic and we'll use the pricing strategy that John's talked about and our field will execute.
So I don't think you should expect much material difference in kind of the returns we're going to get in historical.
Are they as good as the 2010 acquisitions? No but they're really good properties and we're really happy with them.
Research Division</strong> And once you draw down all your cash because this will chew up both your cash should we expect effective preferred raise in the fourth quarter to boost up that cash or you'll wait till you see the opportunities come in? John's pretty good about being opportunistic in terms of the capital markets.
So we've got plenty of capacity to do whatever we need to do and we'll just wait for the right time in terms of the capital markets.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Yes for the non-Same Store portfolio can you talk about what was the occupancy at June 30 for that? Non-Same Store hold on Mike.
We'll get that here for you.
Mike it was about 90.2%.
That was an average for the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Actually I'm sorry Mike.
That was 90.2% at June 30 not an average for the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just going back to the $374 million again Ron understanding that there's property in development.
There's something that's a little bit more of not a self-storage property and can you ballpark the average occupancy for the 29 properties or 28 27 of them then I mean is it in the 80s or...
Mike I don't have that here in front of me.
So if you want me to give you that offline I could.
Your next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Not trying to beat a dead horse here on the acquisition but I did want to follow up.
You said it's a little bit more of a sellers' market which traditionally would not be a time when PSA would be hitting the bids in the market based on your historical discipline.
And so I guess Michael Bilerman used the word lightbulbs going off.
I mean where I think I'm a little curious about why now why all this is sort of coming together and obviously product is coming to market given the bid I understand but historically you've been a little less inclined.
So I'm curious why are you -- why do you appear to be more inclined to make acquisitions today? Yes Jordan I can't elaborate any more than there is more product coming to market and there is much better product coming to market.
And one of the things that we've commented on in the past is the quality of assets in terms of -- that we've seen coming to market has been stuff that for the most part we have not been interested in.
We've lost some transactions that we would have liked the portfolios but a number of them we weren't even bidders or we weren't interested.
So the stuff that we've got under contract today we think is pretty high-quality product and it's a sellers' market.
So people that have high-quality portfolios are bringing them to market.
We're getting more of that than we've had in the last couple of years.
Research Division</strong> So no -- I mean any change in your underwriting whatsoever? Are you a little less-sensitive to cap rate today given sort of the amount of capital you have available? Well as I've said before we're not on a day 1 a cap rate buyer.
And I mean that's evident in the fact that we're buying properties that are newly developed or still underdeveloped.
What we look at is okay when this thing is stabilized what kind of return are we going to get? What are the barriers to entry in that market? What does it looks like relative to replacement cost? A variety of factors and so in a market with very high barrier to entry that's going to get a different cap rate than a market where there's a lot of competition and low barrier to entries and it varies by property and these $390 million of property are across the board in terms of high barrier low barrier stabilized non-stabilized properties.
Research Division</strong> So when you look at the pipeline do you think we could continue to see some good volume here on the investment side? Jordan we're not big commentators on transactions that haven't been consummated.
So again I think it's a sellers' market.
So my guess is the back half of the year we'll see continued product flow and at least I hope there is and so we hope to be an active participant.
Your next question comes from the line of Paula Poskon with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> So I'm going to try and ask the acquisition topic in a slightly different way.
And obviously hindsight's always 20-20 Ron but just looking back over the last 3 years among your competitors in the public realm Extra Space stock is up 180%.
CubeSmart's up 103%.
Sovereign's up a little over 90% and Public Storage is up 64% and yet Cube and Extra Space have done in that 2010 to 2012 timeframe about $1 billion each Sovereign slightly less than PSA in terms of acquisition volume.
So 2 questions there.
In retrospect given the relative strength of PSA's balance sheet coming out of the credit crisis do you wish you had been more aggressive during that time period? And secondly is there something different about either the way your underwriting or perhaps the brokers that you're dealing with that you're seeing different product? Is there something different that you're doing now that you wish you would have done 3 years ago? Well Paula I don't know how to answer that other than how I responded to Jordan and Michael Knott.
So you can go back and I'm not going to repeat myself.
But I will say this though that as I just mentioned are there transactions that over this period of time we would have liked to have gotten? Yes.
But there's a lot that we're I mean we're fine we weren't interested in them and we weren't interested in the quality of the product or the markets where they were located given the competition or low barriers to entry.
So overall I think we've done a pretty good job and we've got some pretty good assets.
And if you look at the returns on the stuff that we've done it's pretty darn good.
So I don't have much more to comment than that.
Your next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's Ross Nussbaum here with Christy.
So Ron when I popped in the area and suggested that on the next earnings call you say good quarter any questions I wasn't actually expecting you to take me so literally with that suggestion but I do love it.
Here's the question I have for you.
I have always thought about Public Storage.
When I think about I'm driving down the street looking at one of your properties and I think about who your neighbors are and whether it's a McDonald's or a Jiffy Lube or -- and I think about the slowdown in consumer spending it appears to have taken a bit of hold this summer whether it's temporary or not.
How are you viewing consumer spending right now? And how are you thinking about the pricing power in your business now that your occupancy is at record levels relative to how you're seeing pricing power and Same Store sales growth at the McDonald's and the Starbucks and the Jiffy Lubes of the world? Okay Ross I'll try to start answering that question and let John Reyes finish up since he's in charge of pricing.
If you look at our business and it's really across the platform we've had pretty robust demand.
We've been able to dial down the marketing spend here for the last 2 years.
I went through the customer acquisition cost.
They continue to decline.
In fact they went positive this quarter.
Move-in volumes despite reduction and television reduction in Internet spend and reduction in dollar specials move-in volume held steady and rates were up.
So for our product type we're feeling pretty good about the robustness of demand.
We don't monitor our pricing versus McDonald's or Starbucks or any of those guys.
I think in part the uptick in the economy the consumers whether their incomes are up but the activity in the economy's positive homebuilding's positive and that activity's a good thing for our business combined with the absence of new supply.
We're fortunate that there's not a lot of construction going on.
I touched on that earlier and what we're seeing across the country.
We don't see a lot of development going on.
And for the most part on our development sites we're not seeing a lot of competition on the stuff that we're doing today.
Those are all positive things in terms of continued absence of supply.
I was at the self-storage association a couple of weeks ago.
And if you take the U.S.
population at I don't know 320 million 330 million people and add 1% 1.5% population growth and then you apply 7 square feet per person I think there's plenty of capacity or plenty net new demand from that population growth and yet it's not being met with new supply.
So overall our business is pretty good.
You're seeing it across the public competitors and demand is fairly robust.
In terms of pricing? I would say this Ross when we send out increases to our existing tenant base I mean we just don't haphazardly do it.
We do it on a basis of understanding the -- each and every property's demographic and we put that into the mix when we decide Joe Schmo at this property is going to get a 7% and somebody else at a different property may get a 5% and somebody else at a third property may get a 10%.
And it's really I'd like to say it scientific maybe it's more of an art than science I don't know but we do look at demographic.
We monitor demographic.
We monitor what happens.
We know what these customers do.
So we get -- we're pretty comfortable when we send out these increases and understanding what the reaction to the customers going to be when we do these things.
So yes it's a little more scientific than just throwing darts at the wall.
Research Division</strong> Sure appreciate that.
Last question Europe given the improvement in the capital markets that appears to be a bit of a steady improvement of late how does that influence how you strategically think about Shurgard whether it's from a financing perspective whether it's from a financing perspective in terms of do you ever revisit the IPO thoughts there at some point; so can you just give us sort of some updated thoughts on that? Sure.
I think the capital markets in Europe are a little more buoyant than they were a couple of years ago.
But before we undertook anything like an IPO we would definitely need some positive Same Store growth.
Undertaking an IPO when we posted negative 7% for the quarter probably wouldn't get the value that we perceived in Europe today with those kind of numbers.
So we need some positive momentum in Europe and some good year-over-year comps before we entertain something like that.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No questions on acquisitions this time.
I did want to ask about just your philosophy on the revenue maximization trade-off between occupancy and rent growth.
Just looking at the realized rent growth I think was in the mid-3-s this quarter.
And then when I look at the end place at the end of the quarter versus last year I think it's a little over 2.
Just curious if you're leaning even more toward the occupancy side of this in terms of actualizing revenues and if so why? Michael no we're not leaning more towards the occupancy.
It just happened to end up that way.
Given the high occupancy levels we obviously have to really put more focus on the rate side of the equation which is what we spend a lot of time doing internally.
What you're seeing that 2.2 keep in mind that is at a point in time when the calendar flips to the next day a lot of rent increases become effective on July 1 so that 2.2 immediately I could tell you popped up a little bit more than 2.2 on July 1.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] curiosity the 3.4 for the quarter is it possible to [indiscernible].
Michael you're breaking up.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Oh sorry about that.
Just curious on the 3.4 realized rents for the quarter is it possible to decompose that between lower discounts existing customers and street rents? Is that something you have? I don't have it calculated by per square foot but let me give you the numbers the discounts then you can do the math on your own.
I can tell you the discount part of the equation.
I don't have the other components with me but discounts for the quarter this quarter 2013 was about $19.4 million versus $22.3 million for the same quarter last year.
So it was about a 13% reduction or about $2.9 million reduction.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] selling opportunities with Wayne Single-Family Housing Company? What was the first part Michael of your question? I'm sorry you keep...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I apologize for my phone.
I was asking have you thought about any cross-selling opportunities with Wayne Single-Family Housing Company? Is there anything that can benefit you there? Well I don't know if there is but we haven't thought about it.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Yes just on the development and expansion pipeline the $200 million it's up $30 million sequentially from the first quarter.
How should we think about how much of that $200 million is ground-up new development? How much of that is expansions? So you're adding about 1 million -- 1.4 million square feet and then how should we think about what the sort of forward pipe may increase to? How aggressively are you going to seek to add to that as another driver of potential growth over the next little while as you put out capital? Yes.
The -- in terms of the pipeline let's see expansions are 14 of the projects $96 million.
Ground-up development is 2 properties as of June 30 about $17 million and conversions of existing structures 3 properties about $85 million and those are new acquisitions so -- and those like the Gerard property that we're doing in the Bronx that's a conversion that's in like I said the conversion bucket.
We've got a couple other industrial buildings that we bought that we're also going to convert to self-storage.
So I kind of think of those as almost developments although it's not bare land.
We're just taking the existing building and decking it out or whatever and turning it into self-storage.
Research Division</strong> And then how quickly will you add to this pipeline in terms of acceleration rate.
So if it went up $30 million this quarter should we expect that pace to continue? Or I mean could you see having once this $200 million delivers but another $200 million pipeline next year how much is in the hopper? Yes.
Michael we have probably a couple hundred million and what we would refer to as our shadow pipeline stuff we're looking at trying to figure out the zoning see if it makes sense and that's both on the development and the redevelopment side.
As we get close to that we go through approval process it makes sense to us then it goes into what you're seeing as the development pipeline which is still subject to some contingencies in terms of making that happen.
I can't tell you what it's going to be next quarter or the quarter after per se but our target is to get to a $300 million-plus kind of run rate on the development side so -- and that's going to take us a couple of years probably to get to a total run rate where we're putting $300 million to $350 million into the ground each year and that means there's another couple of hundred million in the development pipeline at any one time.
That was our final question.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to Clem Teng for any closing comments.
Appreciate everybody attending this morning on our call and we look forward to talking to you in the next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Public Storage Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Clem Teng.
Mr.
Teng please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our third quarter earnings call.
Here with me today are Ron Havner and John Reyes.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this conference call are forward-looking statements subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.
These risks and other factors that could adversely affect our business and future results are described in today's earnings press release and in our reports filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of today November 1 2013 and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A reconciliation to GAAP of the non-GAAP financial measures we are providing on this call is included in our earnings press release.
You can find our press release SEC reports and the audio webcast replay of this conference call on our website at www.publicstorage.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ron Havner.
Thank you Clem.
I think we had a pretty good quarter Q3 and so we're going to go straight to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes the line of Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The first question regarding your acquisitions it seems like obviously you guys have made a bit of a change in strategy over the past couple of quarters.
I was wondering if you could provide some color on the pricing sort of different buckets you're buying and maybe on top of that wrap [ph] it around how the quality of assets you're buying compares to the typical acquisitions you made in the past.
Ki this is Ron.
I think prior to this year a lot of the stuff that we were buying would be what I would call distressed.
We were buying foreclosed assets and we were buying assets principally from sellers in distress.
There were a few marketed deals but that was most of what we were acquiring.
This year we've seen more product come to market higher quality product product that we were interested in buying in the markets and in the quality.
And so really it's the market that's changed really not so much our strategy.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And how about on pricing? Well the pricing varies.
Are you talking price per foot? Inc.
Research Division</strong> More on cap rates.
The cap rates range anywhere from I'd say 0% to 8%.
One property we acquired in September was just opened it was still under construction when we put it under contract so it opened at 0.
And we've got some other properties that are part of portfolios in what I would call secondary markets that probably have an 8 or a 9 cap rate.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You mind providing an average? You know what Ki why don't you -- why don't we try to limit it to one question or so and then if you'd like to ask some more why don't you get -- hop back in queue okay? Your next question comes from the line of Shahzeb Zakaria with Macquarie.
So with regards to your funding strategy for the new acquisitions how are you thinking about equity and debt? And how comfortable are you with maximizing say the balance on your credit facility and let it stay there for 1 quarter or 2? So if you could just provide some additional color around that that would be great.
Shahzeb yes this is Ron.
I think Page 4 of the press release we've got a commentary in there.
We have a variety of possibilities to finance our acquisition and development activities whether it's common equity debt some combination of both one or all and our retained cash flow.
So that's really what you should look for in terms of how we're going to fund these acquisitions and development.
Sure I read that.
I was just interested in knowing a little bit more about the preferred market but thank you for the color.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with Keybanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Jordan Sadler is here with me as well.
I just wanted to switch over to sort of the operating environment.
I was just wondering if you could talk about discounting and concessions a bit.
And maybe curious if you can help quantify how much free rent you gave away this quarter and sort of discuss where we are in the cycle for reducing discounts and concessions.
Just trying to understand how much juice is there left to squeeze sort of on the discounting front.
Todd this is John.
During the third quarter in our Same Stores we gave away about $23 million of discounts [Audio Gap] [Technical Difficulty] We gave away about $23 million of discounts during the quarter.
This quarter -- this past quarter compared to about $25 million last year that's about an 8% reduction.
Year-to-date the reduction was about 10.5%.
So the reduction has narrowed somewhat.
Overall year-to-date we gave away about $60 million versus about $67 million last year.
So the number is still very large and we continue to work on reducing discounts.
Albeit I think the year-over-year reductions will probably narrow a little bit as we move forward.
Research Division</strong> And where is sort of that stack up relative to sort of the lowest number that you've ever seen in the portfolio's history? Maybe on a percentage basis would be helpful.
No I don't know the answer to that.
And it will vary because the amount of discounts is also predicated upon our rental rate.
So if we gave the same number of tenants -- let's just say we gave 100 tenants a discount this year and 100 last year but our rates were up 10%.
So roughly our discounts would be up 10%.
So it's really a function of not only what our rental rates are but how many tenants received discounts.
So that really varies and over time since our rates have somewhat climbed we're naturally probably going to be higher than historically.
But I don't know that for a fact because I don't have that data in front of us.
Our next question comes the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Ron can you talk about occupancy? Number one where was it at October 31? It was on a square foot basis 93 2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then question number two when I look at your ending occupancy at September 30 compare that to where it was at the end of the second quarter if my numbers are right it was down about 130 bps.
And obviously that's your seasonal move-outs.
If I look at those same numbers last year I'm looking at about a 60-basis-point decline from the end of Q2 to end of Q3.
So if my numbers are in the right ballpark it would suggest that you had a little more occupancy slippage this year.
And I'm wondering was that anticipated because you were pushing rents a little harder? Was it unanticipated? Can you talk about that and how it relates going forward to your strategy on rate and discounting? Yes Ross this is John.
Yes I mean the numbers you've rattled off are correct.
The primary cause I'd attribute that to is that we had increased our street rates and therefore our move-in rates were up about 5% versus last year.
So that's going to put pressure on the level of move-ins that are coming in.
And you couple that with the fact that we gave away less discounts -- I mentioned 8% less discounts.
So higher rates lower discounts resulted in slightly less move-in volume and therefore some slippage in occupancies.
And look that's just the way we kind of manage our revenue growth.
So it could be in occupancies it could be in rates it could be in discounts could be in rate increases to existing tenants.
So they're all different levers that we're kind of massaging and pulling.
And one thing you've just noted is that one lever has slipped but the other levers have gone the other way.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Spector with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Ron could you add some additional color on your comments about the marketplace changing on acquisitions? And what do you see going forward I guess as we enter 2014? Sure.
Well like a couple of the transactions that we've consummated this year and one of the ones that we've got in the hopper were off-market deals.
And in one case the seller came to us.
They had -- the pricing was right for them their view of the outlook for the business was right and so they brought their portfolio to market.
We didn't really see a lot.
We have not seen that really since the A-American acquisition in 2010.
So that's what I was kind of referring to in terms of the market changing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could just ask one follow-up.
Can you talk about new supply in your markets? What are you seeing from developers? Sure.
I would say construction or new development is more of a conversation than it was 2 years ago especially in places like the self-storage association conventions.
People are talking about development whereas 2 years ago no one even -- it wasn't even in anyone's vocabulary.
So yes there's an uptick in conversation.
I would say conversation to action in terms of what we're seeing in the markets with new product coming out of the ground it's pretty light.
There is construction.
The markets come to mind are New York and Texas but not really at any material level.
We do have a development pipeline.
I think we have -- what do we got here we got 6 or 8 properties -- new properties under development.
So even relative -- while we're trying to get started and ramped up relative to our size in the marketplace it's pretty nascent.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
First of all what was the occupancy levels on the 3 pools that you -- pools of assets that you acquired in Q3 and are closing in Q4? The occupancy at the time of acquisitions? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well it kind of varies.
I think one was about 85 one was 78 one had properties that were just developed.
On a blended basis probably about 50%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly just switching gears for a second.
It looks like your partner's buying 50% 51% of the loan.
What was the trigger for that to happen and what's the timing? Well they've always had the option to take their share of the loan.
And so it's really their decision their timing in terms of deciding that they wanted to take their 51% of the loan.
They're going through the process right now lining up the capital.
And so our anticipation is it -- they will fund that sometime in the fourth quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Lesnick with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I'm standing in for Paula.
Turning back to development and expansion of the $188 million how much is development and how much is expansion respectively? And what are the stabilized yield projections on each? Well I think we've got about -- development we've got let's see about $75 million is development and the balance is redevelopment.
And I would say the stabilized deals our target on the development is somewhere between 9 and 10 and the redevelopment's going to be north of probably 11.
It's a little apples and bananas because the redevelopment obviously we've -- in many cases we already have the land or we're acquiring the land next to an existing facility.
So you would expect the yields to be higher.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And then could you add a little color or talk about how active you were in the land acquisition process in 3Q? You mean how many properties -- how many land parcels we bought? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Oh 2 or 3.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just to go back to the transactions you guys announced.
Can you talk about pricing on relative to replacement cost? And then just in terms of acquisitions historically how much upside have you typically been able to generate in terms of margins within the first year just from putting -- from introducing them to the PSA operating platform? Yes Mike I would say they vary anywhere from probably 70% of replacement costs to 130% 150% of replacement costs depending on the property the location the market and our ability to drive returns.
Occupancy varies but as you can see here the portfolio at the end of the quarter was 93% 94% occupied.
That's 600 700 basis points above most people.
And so I kind of use that as a barometer.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Ron just want to come back to sort of the capital side of things and certainly the comment about potentially raising common equity.
PSA hasn't raised -- done a deal -- direct deal since 2001 2.1 million shares at $24 that's a long time ago.
You certainly issued equity to Shurgard in '06 when the stock was at $85.
I guess when you sort of think about all the options you've been very hesitant to issue your equity.
You've treated it as very precious you've always thought about the long-term cost of equity versus preferred and those things crossing.
The preferred market today your preferreds are trading at about a 6.5% yield a sister company did a preferred at 5%.
I'm just trying to marry everything up as to how you think about those 2 and how you think about common equity in this landscape.
Well Michael I don't have much to add to your commentary in terms of the way we've thought about things.
We've always thought about it in terms of the long-term value of our equity kind of where the puck is going not where it is today not immediate per se FFO accretion.
We consider our equity very precious as you said.
So I really -- I have nothing to add to what you said about that and I think you're dead on.
With respect to the preferred market you recall we did about $700 million $720 million of preferreds this year at 5 20.
That market has basically shut down.
There's some deals out there that have -- some of the banks in fact your bank did one different structure 10-year fixed then going to floating.
We've looked at that it's not really attractive to us.
So from our perspective the traditional preferred market which we will continue to use as a funding source is for the moment kind of shut down due to in part I guess the uncertainty as to the timing of quantitative easing [ph] And what's going to happen there.
Research Division</strong> Right.
What I'm trying to get a sense of is has your mindset changed at all on equity.
You talk about potentially raising common equity.
I guess is your first thing okay you'll get the cash from your partners in Shurgard would you draw the line and do a term loan before doing a larger common equity issuance? I'm just trying to get your mindset.
You clearly have articulated the potential to do common equity but your history suggests that that really has never been done.
You're probably the only company that has fewer shares today or flat shares in the REIT industry yet has grown tremendously.
So I'm trying to put that into perspective.
I really have nothing to add.
We still think of common equity and our common shares exactly the way as you described.
We do have -- we're looking at leverage in terms of debt.
But as we put in the press release we're looking at common equity we're looking at leverage and then we're also looking at retained cash flow.
And yet as you've said we do anticipate that we'll get about $200-million-plus from our partner in Shurgard Europe.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up just on the $1.1 billion just because it is a dramatic size relative to $11 billion $12 billion of assets on the balance sheet what is that average yield going in by the end of the year? And what would your forecasted yield just in aggregate on the $1.1 billion be as we think about how that translates into your earnings growth? Just given the size relative to the base this is a dramatic change for the company relative to the last 6.5 years.
Michael as I touched on earlier I think the yields are from 0% to 8% or 9% going in.
And we hope next year we make a lot more money on those assets.
Research Division</strong> Ron can you at least give an average? 0% to 8% is a pretty wide range.
Michael I think probably you ought to get back in the queue.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Stender with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just along those same lines of using equity are you using OP units at all when making acquisitions? We have not to date Todd.
It doesn't mean we won't but we have not to date.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just really at this point in the cycle what growth rates do you generally assume in your acquisition underwriting? Just kind of considering where we are in the self-storage cycle on stuff you've been acquiring and then the stuff that you plan on closing in December? Well I'll give you an example.
When you look at new properties with 0 occupancy obviously their growth rate is going to -- on a rate change is going to be very high because they're filling up.
And if you have a property that's already at 92 its growth rate is going to be much lower than that 0-occupied property.
But I'll give you a little illustration of what we have seen over the last 1 year 1.5 years.
Last year we bought a couple of properties in Hawaii.
We paid up for those I think we probably paid 120% 130% of replacement costs.
And we underwrote them with a very I'd say very aggressive -- a pretty low cap rate.
And we're already about 100 basis points above that cap rate a year after we acquired it.
Both properties we thought would take 18 to 24 months to fill up and they're about 96% occupied today.
So in terms of where we are in the cycle and what we're seeing for the most part we're seeing faster fill-ups better rates greater acceleration of the fill-up than we're underwriting.
And probably the best example of that is our Gerard property that we opened up in June 1st of June this year.
We finished construction at the end of September.
It's 3 900 units there in the Bronx.
And we're already 41% occupied 1 600 units as of the end of -- as of yesterday.
I can tell you we had -- our underwriting had nowhere near that level of fill-up.
So to fill up rent out 1 600 units in 4 months in our system is unheard of.
So it somewhat typifies what we're seeing better fill up better rates on a number of acquisitions and as I touched on on the Gerard property.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ron or John curious to ask about your realized rents.
It looked like they picked up this quarter on a year-over-year basis.
And just curious how much room you think there is for that metric to continue accelerating in 2014.
I think in the last cycle you peaked at about 5% year-over-year growth on realized rents.
And I know you've said before that you thought that that was...
We may have lost him.
[Technical Difficulty] On realized rents Michael I think going forward most of our revenue growth is going to be built off of realized rents our rental rates vis-à-vis occupancy because we -- our occupancies are pretty darn high right now and it's going to be extremely difficult to continue to push them further.
So we are going to work on realized rents as we go forward.
I can't tell you what I think they're going to be next year because I simply don't know.
But we're going to continue pushing street rates reducing discounts as I've mentioned earlier and hopefully we'll be successful in continuing to grow the revenues.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Would it be logical to infer that if last cycle was 5 and it was restrained by the Shurgard merger and filling up their space that should be better than that this cycle? Again I don't know because I have no idea what this cycle is going to -- how that all pans out Michael.
But we hope it'll be more than 5 Michael.
And we're working toward that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to ask one more if I could.
Curious Ron on the comment on the 150% of replacement costs.
Just curious how that compares to some of your prior activity.
Just curious how you got comfortable with that because I know you're a dyed-in-the-wool value investor and just curious how you thought about that and why that sort of passed your test.
I am a dyed-in-the-wool value investor you're correct Michael.
The -- I touched on a couple of properties we bought in Hawaii and where we paid above replacement costs.
And some of the stuff we've acquired this year certainly fits that bill.
And in part it has to do with you can look at what a piece of land costs and then what it takes to build a building.
But what's hard to put in the equation in terms of a straight-up replacement cost analysis is the A ability to find land in that particular market upon which you can actually build self-storage where there's zoning and the ability to do that.
So Hawaii certainly fit that bill.
It is very very hard to get fee-simple ownership of land in Hawaii and very very difficult to get zoning.
And so those couple of properties which we viewed as A properties in A submarkets we were willing to pay above replacement cost because of the difficulty of developing those properties.
Another example here closer to home would be Pasadena California which has had a moratorium on self-storage for 10 12 years.
If a property were to come for sale in Pasadena California a market that is growing where we're 94% 95% occupied will we be willing to pay above replacement costs what it cost traditionally to buy the land and build a building? Yes we would because that is a very very high barrier to market where you probably enjoy above-average occupancy and above-average rates.
Our next question comes from the line of R.J.
Milligan with Raymond James and Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You guys obviously were very active on the acquisition front for the first couple of quarters -- or the second and third quarter.
So whilst going into the fourth quarter based on where you guys are underwriting properties today the amount of product coming to market whether or not there's large portfolios out there still and I guess seller pricing expectations as we look into '14 would you expect the acquisition pace to continue accelerate decelerate any color there? We got Dave Doll here who does all the heavy lifting here on the acquisitions and developments.
So I'll have him give you his 2014 outlook.
Thank you Ron.
I'll pull my crystal ball out.
But R.J.
that's a tough one.
These things aren't sitting on a shelf available for acquisition.
And so from time to time when opportunities become available we become more active.
But I don't see -- I can't tell you that '14 will be better or worse than '13.
Clearly more product has come to the market in the last 6 7 months than we've seen in a number of years.
So if it does come available we'll continue to be active.
We will have to wait and see.
R.J.
we have a director on our board a guy named Ron Spogli who's in the private equity business.
And he was commenting to me yesterday that here in the private equity business as pricing hits a certain level more product more companies -- better companies come to market.
And that's his experience in the private equity business.
And I would say that's so far been the experience we've seen in the second half of this year.
So more likely than not my guess is we'll continue to see that into 2014.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And for the $430 million under contracts for the fourth quarter is that a large portfolio or is that smaller one-offs? It's a large one and a couple one-offs.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with Keybanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up sort of on the acquisitions here Ron.
You mentioned -- you talked about private equity.
I was just wondering we've heard that there are some larger investors sort of looking to break into the industry.
I was just wondering how you view that how you think about the competitive landscape on the acquisition side whether you sort of welcome that or -- just maybe you could just talk about the sort of competitive landscape a bit? Well it is competitive.
I don't know that I would like any more entrants.
I've-- we have plenty of competition from the other public companies.
I guess in an ideal world we would be the only buyer.
That would be nirvana for me but that's not the case.
There's a fair amount of capital in there -- out there.
And it really doesn't surprise me that other non-industry participants are looking at this industry because the fundamentals are very good there's really an absence of new supply in any meaningful degree interest rates are low financing's available and the operating fundamentals of the business are quite good right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one more.
Was just curious how much if at all the broader economy plays into your decisions to invest.
I mean I'm just kind of wondering if you can share with us whether Public Storage has a view on long-term interest rates inflation and/or maybe economic growth.
That's way beyond my pay grade.
Our next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I just was hoping you could make a couple of comments about operating expenses and where you expect trends to go going forward.
Year-to-date same-store OpEx was down 1%.
But just for the quarter in particular it was up 1.5% because of property taxes.
So just kind of curious going forward where you think that all kind of shakes out? Yes Tayo this is Ron and I'll let John talk about property taxes specifically.
But what we've said consistently is you should expect expense growth of 2% to 3% kind of in line with inflation.
This year's expenses as well as last year's have benefited from some reduction in R&amp;M where we've done a few things to kind of control our R&amp;M a little better but mainly on the advertising side.
And the big reduction there is the elimination of Yellow Pages.
So with respect to Yellow Pages in particular you should see another fourth quarter benefit and as well as an absence of television.
So advertising and selling expenses in Q4 will probably be down I don't know $1.5 million to $2 million.
With respect to property taxes John you want to give some color? Yes.
In terms of property taxes you see that in the third quarter we had a much larger increase than we had experienced in the first 6 months of the year.
And that's primarily due to receiving some unexpected high bills in a couple of counties one of which was in Texas Harris County where we have our Houston properties where bills came in about 13% higher than last year.
So we are seeing many municipalities become very aggressive on not only assessment -- assessed values but also on rates.
And we vigorously fight the assessed values but it's hard to fight the rate side of the equation.
So what you're seeing in the third quarter is kind of a makeup increase.
We think that the full year will be about 5.5% year-over-year increase on property taxes so lower than the 7.2% in the third quarter.
The 7.2% includes an adjustment to try to bring up and make up for the first half of the year where the accrual was cumulatively at 4%.
On a go-forward basis I would say that property taxes is probably one of the expenses that I'm most worried about because again municipalities are looking for revenue and they are getting very aggressive.
I can't predict what we think next year will be but my guess is it's at least going to be 5% if not more.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> John a real quick one first.
Remind me what the rate is on the note receivable over in Europe? Ross how could you forget it it's 9%.
Research Division</strong> Number two Ron I want to go back to the acquisition yield which we still don't really know.
But let me see if I can get to it this way.
I think what everybody's trying to figure out is how much upside exists vis-à-vis the revenue line.
So can you give us a sense in your first year of ownership of this billion-ish that you just bought how much of a percentage increase are you expecting in the NOI from those properties? No I -- I probably could Ross but as I touched on 0% to 8% the percentage increase in the NOI on the newly constructed property is going to be much greater than it is on a property that's already at 7% or 8%.
And to kind of help you I think we put in the -- I don't know if it's in the -- it's not in the press release but I know we do in the 10-Q.
We break out by year our acquisitions our costs the NOI on the acquisitions and how they have filled up over a period of time.
And I would direct you as that's a pretty good barometer of what you should look for kind of in 2014 2015.
There'll be a little more development in the mix so there'll be kind of greater revenue growth than the stuff we bought in 2010 2011.
But I would use that as a pretty good barometer.
And in that table you have kind of what we paid for and what the occupancy changes are and what the rental rate changes are and how we're able to drive that over a period of time.
Keep in mind that historically when we take over a property that is below our system average which is 93% 94% we're usually more aggressive out of the box on rental rates driving customer volume into that property.
So you should expect to see that as well on these acquisitions.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Well I guess I won't drive home the 0% to 8% to an average then but I did have a question on debt.
Equity is simple.
As we think about debt what is your sort of preference as you think about raising that capital? You have your $300 million line of credit which obviously you can tap but that won't be enough to fund all the deals that you have.
So would you do a term loan a floating rate term loan swap it for 5 years? Or would you contemplate doing a debut unsecured issuance? And then what's your mindset if you were to do that? Would you go just 10-year or would you go 30? I'm just curious how you think about the debt side in terms of raising debt capital.
Yes Michael we're looking at a variety of options.
Everything is -- basically pretty much what you touched on whether it's an expansion of the credit facility a term -- kind of a term loan from the bank or some kind of unsecured debt offering.
So we're kind of looking at the whole menu there with respect to debt.
Research Division</strong> Then I guess what's your preference in terms of running the capital structure what's your -- put aside immediate costs but how do you think -- I mean is this going to be a shift if you do -- is there a mentality shift in the company? The current preferred market as you said is closed.
Has this changed the way that you are thinking about the longer-term capital structure and how are those conversations going? Not really to the extent that we do some kind of debt offering.
I would just view it as kind of another tool in the toolkit versus a change in strategy.
Or if the preferred market were open today that's probably where we would be.
And permanent capital long-term capital which has been our strategy for the last 22 23 years has not changed at all.
Research Division</strong> When should we expect some resolution to these capital raises? Obviously with the deals closing in December I got to assume that a transaction should be imminent.
But I'm just trying to think about when we should hear about potential capital.
Yes you'll probably -- sometime here in the fourth quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> That was my question.
I tried to get out of the queue.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I did just want to reiterate the earlier comments the 0% to 8% range does feel awfully wide.
I do wish you guys could at least give us maybe a range within even 100 basis points so you're not giving the exact number out to all the people that are really trying to -- in the private market trying to figure out what you're doing but it would be helpful to get some more color from -- for your public market constituents.
But I did want to ask what are your -- what's sort of the range of capital that you need that you're thinking about raising? Well I think if you take our quarter-end cash balance anticipate the repayment of the Shurgard Europe loan and some retained cash flow probably somewhere between $400 million and $500 million or 5 5 [ph].
Yes what I would tell you though Michael that's the need.
That doesn't necessarily mean that that's how much we would raise.
We could raise more than that we could raise less than that.
It's depending on what we do with our line of credit too.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then is there anything in terms of the European outlook that you think is worth sharing that's new or different? Is it sort of the same as it's been? No actually I'm glad you asked that Michael.
Europe had a pretty good quarter.
The occupancy spread it's been running below prior years.
We've been running let's see June we ended at 81.3% versus 83.8% last year.
So we're down 2.5% year-over-year.
And that spread narrowed at the end of September.
The -- our occupancy was 82.7% versus 83.3% so we narrowed it down to 0.6%.
So we had a nice improvement in Europe in Q3 in terms of occupancy.
We're still backwards in terms of NOI.
Recall in October of last year we reduced the rental rates to existing tenants in London by 20% for the VAT.
So my anticipation is that coming into Q4 we won't have that year-over-year negative rent roll down in London.
And hopefully we will actually turn positive on the revenue line in Q4.
Across most markets in Europe in the third quarter on a sequential basis we improved occupancy year-over-year anywhere from 0.7% to 3.5% in Holland.
So my gut is Europe's bottomed and either bumping along the bottom or on the uptick.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Does that make you more open-minded about further capital allocation opportunities on that side of the Atlantic Ocean? Yes.
Europe generates -- they're amortized -- they've been using their capital last 4 5 years to amortize debt.
We've really brought the debt down over there.
The capital allocation from here to there is somewhat limited because we have a partner.
So if we put in money the other partner has to put in 51%.
So I would look to Europe to start to expand in 2014 but at a limited pace.
Our final question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> John just a couple of quarters ago you talked about being a leader in the market in terms of pricing and that your peers not capitulating.
Can you talk about where you stand right now in the decision to accelerate rate growth a little bit in the quarter? We are continuing to push street rates as I mentioned earlier to the extent that we continue to hold our occupancies.
Ross had pointed out that our occupancies had -- our growth had narrowed year-over-year during the third quarter.
So we don't really want to lose occupancy.
So we're kind of monitoring and turning the dials to increase the rates while not losing occupancy.
Reducing discounts while not losing occupancy.
So we're trying to be aggressive.
It's important to get the street rates up it's important I think for the industry to get the street rates up and I'd certainly like to see us as well as the whole industry start moving street rates up particularly since occupancies are so high.
But with that said all we can do is what we can do here at Public Storage and that's what we're doing.
And I think most of the industry is starting to get a little more aggressive on street rates.
But we'll see how that translates as we move forward into 2014.
LLC Research Division</strong> That growth you saw in the third quarter did that continue in October? It did for the most part yes.
We continue to do the same strategies into the -- well into October.
And hopefully we can continue that through the remainder of this quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A quick one.
I think earlier on the call Ron you said the occupancy at October 31 was 93.2%.
What was it the year before? It was 92.2%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I guess your occupancy gap year-over-year fell from 140 basis points I think to 100 basis points at the end of October.
Is that -- that sounds about right? Yes.
Again I wouldn't read too much into that Michael because we've been -- I don't want to say we could easily but all I have to do is turn to our pricing guys and say adjust rental rates and discounts and our occupancies will go back up.
So occupancy is just one part of the equation of revenue and revenue growth.
It's -- there's other parts to it.
That was our final question.
Now I'd like to turn the floor back over to Clem Teng for any additional or closing remarks.
I want to thank everybody for your interest today in our third quarter results and we'll be speaking to you next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Public Storage Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Clem Teng.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter earnings call.
Here with me today are Ron Havner and John Reyes.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this conference call are forward-looking statements subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.
These risks and other factors that could adversely affect our business and future results are described in today's earnings press release and in our reports filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of today February 21 2014 and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A reconciliation to GAAP of the non-GAAP financial measures we are providing on this call is included in our earnings press release.
You can find our press release SEC reports and audio webcast replay of this conference call on our website at www.publicstorage.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Clem.
Once again we had a pretty good quarter pretty active on the acquisition front good core growth in Same Store Facilities.
So let's open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> While at the risk of wasting one of my questions could you comment on the stabilized yield and whichever way you feel comfortable quoting that whether it be kind of stabilized go-forward basis on the deals that you closed on this quarter? Ki I think I touched on that last quarter and you asked that and we have properties that just are in fill-ups and properties that came out of -- are newly constructed.
So today they're somewhere between 0 and 8% cash-on-cash yield.
Over the long term and some of them will take 2 to 3 years to stabilize somewhere between 6% and 8% would be my guess.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second question could you comment on the Street rates you pushed in the fourth quarter year-over-year? They're higher.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Any range? Yes.
Ki this is John.
We have mentioned on our last conference call that one of the things we were going to attempt to do during 2014 to continue to grow our same-store revenue is to a push on Street rates.
Last year we got a lot of the growth mostly on increases to existing tenant base as well as reduced discounts promotional discounts given.
We're going to continue to do those 2 things but the other thing that we were going to attempt to do is push Street rates.
So I think what you're seeing if you follow what we're doing with our Street rates either on our website or otherwise is that our Street rates are up anywhere from 5% to 10% depending on what market you look at.
So we're going to try to continue to do that throughout the year and see how that goes.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas of KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> In terms of acquisitions I was just wondering if you would be able to characterize the pipeline today.
You had a pretty strong year in 2013.
Any thoughts around following that up with a similar year in 2014 based on what you're seeing? Well Todd we're seeing more products come to market in general.
Quite a bit a fair more product coming to market but of lower quality than the stuff we saw last year and that's lower than certainly '11 '12.
In terms of our production in Q1 we've got a property under contract and we've got 3 developments opening.
So we're looking at about close to 400 000 net rentable square feet $50 million in Q1.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up I guess for John maybe on the balance sheet.
In terms of funding additional deals throughout the year how should we think about that additional short-term debt and then utilizing free cash flow to make payments each quarter? Or what's sort of the preferred method to finance these transactions going forward? Yes.
Todd I mean at the end of the year we had borrowings of about $50 million on our line of credit.
That has since been repaid.
We have the $700 million of short-term borrowings.
About $100 million of that has been repaid.
And we used the funds that we received in January when our partner -- our 51% partner in Shurgard Europe purchased our -- a 51% interest in the loan that we had extended to Shurgard Europe.
As we go forward we're looking at a variety of alternatives as we've talked about in the last call which could include the retained cash flow that we generate.
And we'll probably generate somewhere in the neighborhood of about $250 million this year and that's after dividend requirements and maintenance CapEx.
We -- the preferred market is starting to improve.
The last time we talked the preferred market was pretty much shut down for us.
But it has improved quite a bit.
It's not what it used to be a year ago but it has improved.
So we're eyeing -- we're keeping our eye on that.
Things -- other things we could do we can expand our line of credit.
We have a $300 million line of credit that we will continue to use but that's an option that we can seek to do to seek to go to our lenders and see if we can expand that.
So we are thinking about a variety of things Todd.
But it will be depend on how the acquisition flows throughout the year and what our capital needs; will be.
Our next question comes from the line of Jana Galan of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Can you comment on how the colder snowier than normal winter is impacting operations if you're seeing significantly lower movements or -- and if that is potentially being offset by current customers staying put.
And if you can provide current occupancy.
Well I can start and Ron you can finish.
In terms of move-in volume during the fourth quarter particularly in December we didn't really see a dropoff in move-in activity as a result of the storms.
We did however start seeing a dropoff in January.
But our move-in volume basically year-to-date in 2014 is pretty much flat with last year.
So other markets are picking up the slack that -- where we're seeing drop-offs in move-ins in cities like New York and Chicago and Boston and D.C.
Baltimore areas.
But you kind of mentioned about move-out activity conversely the move-out activity is also down too.
So people aren't moving in but people aren't really moving out either.
So on a net-net basis it's kind of been a push so to speak on the occupancy levels.
At the -- in terms of where we are at the end of January our occupancy was 92.2% versus 91.6% at year-end.
Our next question comes from line...
Let me touch on -- let me just add one thing to that the answer to the question.
So snow in January was up I think about $1.5 million.
We don't have the numbers yet for February but I would assume that's going to be up at least $1 million in February year-over-year.
So obviously we don't know what March is going to be.
So $2.5 million at least for Q1 in terms of snow removal costs versus last year.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm here with Jeremy Metz.
Can you first talk about the Shurgard Europe loan? Why was it the right time to sell your stake in that one? Ross since we put the loan in place New York Common has always -- who's our partner in Europe just to refresh they own 51% of Shurgard Europe we own 49%.
And they've had the right to purchase half that loan.
We've given them that right since we put it in place.
And the decision to do it was really on their part and the availability for them to obtain financing to purchase their half.
So it wasn't a strategic decision John and I are making in terms of when they should do it.
It's really them.
Research Division</strong> So it was a contractual right in the partnership and you could just...
I don't believe it was contractual but that's -- since they're our partner we just offered them half the note at any time they wanted it.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
The second question John this is probably for you or maybe not.
When I saw you guys go down the debt path at the end of last year I was convinced that either Armageddon was upon us or hell hath frozen over.
And now I hear some dialogue about potentially expanding the line of credit.
So I understand that's in response to the fact that the preferred market blew up at the end of the year and your yields went to over 7% from the low- to mid-5s.
So I get that you had to do something other than preferreds.
I guess the question I would have is now that you're pressed to trading back down toward call it 6.5% what's the threshold at which you would view issuing preferreds to both pay down the term loan and fund acquisitions versus alternative capital sources? Ross we've really -- I mean obviously if we hit a 5 handle loop we'd probably be out there hand over fist trying to do some preferreds.
But it's not just the yield threshold Ross.
I think the depth of the market is still somewhat suspect.
So even though they have improved it is not like we can go out and maybe issue a significant amount of capital to deal with the -- our acquisition activities that happened in the fourth quarter of last year or to basically finance the $700 million.
So it's bigger than just what the yield would need to be because I don't think the size would be there even if the yield was there.
So we are still evaluating other options but we are looking -- we are really happy that the preferred market seems to be improving the ice is thawing.
Others have gone out and issued preferred namely some of the banks.
And so I don't want to tell you that there's a number because we don't really have a number in mind.
We're just continuing to evaluate.
We're not in a hurry.
We think we have a lot of different avenues to take.
And the loan to -- that we've borrowed from Wells Fargo isn't due until December early December so we have time.
So we're not rushed to do anything at the moment.
Our next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> About a year ago you had implemented the 50% off promotion to increase traffic during the seasonally slower time.
I'm wondering if you employed that or any other promotions during this past quarter.
And it looks like you had a little bit more of a sequential drop-off in occupancy of about 140 basis points from 3Q to 4Q in 2013 versus only about 90 basis points in 2012.
Was that quarter-over-quarter change more reflective of what you would expect as a more normal seasonal trend going forward? Yes.
Christy we turn things on and off as we see fit depending on the market.
I would tell you you're correct we did do a 50% off promotion and we did one last -- in December of 2012.
We did -- we also did one this December but not to the same extent just due to having higher occupancies.
So we do various promotions throughout the year whether it be 50% off or 25% off with the dollar without the dollar it really varies.
I mean at the end of the day our strategy is to try consistently grow our revenue for the long term not just for one particular quarter or for this -- the next 6 months.
We're looking to try to continue to grow for the long term over a year and we're looking out at least a year in advance in how we're monitoring our occupancies our rental rates our discounts and so on and so forth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then is there a way to quantify how you've sort of seen your mobile traffic change in recent years versus customers using a computer? I'm not sure how -- if you track that how closely you track that.
But as more people are using smartphones for web browsing I'm interested to get your thoughts on sort of how you see that increasing trend impacting your business and competition for new customers to your stores? Well I will tell you that the mobile traffic has grown significantly.
And looking at some of the projections that Google and Yahoo! have shown us they projected to continue to grow significantly.
So we are spending more money on the mobile devices in terms of the search and we've invested and improved our mobile website.
The traffic hasn't -- has increased quite a bit.
You're correct customers are using mobile.
They're still using desktop although I think the growth in desktop is slowing down.
But mobile is going to be and is continuing to be a very important avenue for customers to seek us out.
And we're going to be there and we're going to spend money to continue to have high prominence in that area.
Research Division</strong> Do you see that dynamic changing sort of the competitive landscape between larger operators and smaller operators? Or is it sort of the same as online? Because of the mobile? Well mobile because the amount of real estate is a lot smaller on a mobile device than it is on a desktop so I don't know how it's going to change it.
I think it's going to change.
I think it's going to make it tougher for the smaller guys to show up depending on how the user uses the device are they going to scroll further down to find a smaller operator when the bigger guys are going to be at the top and in the prominent roles.
I don't know how that's going to play out Christie.
I don't know if it's still early in the game but my guess is it could probably make it tougher on the smaller guys but I really don't know that.
Our next question comes from line of Vikram Malhotra with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Landon on for Vikram.
Just had a quick question about your expenses.
I noticed a pretty good decrease this quarter.
Just wondering if you guys have more room in your advertising budget to see that change continue.
And then if you could talk about any offsets on the payroll and property tax front I'd appreciate that.
Sure.
On the expenses last year we told you we were pulling out of the Yellow Pages.
And that is the biggest component of the drop year-over-year in advertising and selling and I think it's about $6 million.
The total advertising and selling expense drop was about $11 million year-over-year.
The other 2 components being television and we've gotten a lot more efficient and strategic in our Internet spending as well.
So we're able to drop our Internet spend the Yellow Pages and television due to good demand.
Going into 2014 I would not expect those trends to continue.
We've gotten the benefit of the Yellow pages.
Television maybe even a little more given the acquisitions that we've had.
And Internet spend as John just touched on we're going to be more aggressive on mobile.
And I think we've done a great job of optimizing that platform.
Your other question was what payroll property? Research Division</strong> Yes.
The offset -- I mean is -- how are you looking at payrolls in the coming year with any health care or anything like that? And what kind of property tax expense are you expecting? Well I'll let John touch on property taxes.
On property payroll we've got 2 things going on: increasing medical costs offset by a little more productivity enhancements at the store hour level.
So we'll have fewer store hours because of some of the things we've done offset in part by medical costs.
So net-net I would see property manager payroll up probably 1% to 2% in '14 versus '13.
With respect to property taxes? Yes.
On property taxes I mean internally we're budgeting like 4.5% to 5% increase in the same-store pool of properties for 2014.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one other question.
I was just wondering if you could maybe comment on the state of the supply that you guys are seeing come online.
And your development pipeline if you can see that growing significantly or what your plans are there.
Yes.
Development is now in the lexicon of the trade association meetings and development seminars.
We're hearing -- we've been hearing for the last year 1.5 years more conversations about it.
And so net-net there's more product coming out of the ground today than there was a year or 2 years ago.
Relative to the base of supply and what we've seen around the country it's still very very modest.
The analysis that I've seen from the self-storage association and other groups is less than 100 properties.
As you know industry data is hard to come by in terms of exactly how much new supply but it's pretty modest.
And when you step back and think about U.S.
population growth and kind of what I'll call the natural organic increase in demand each year I'd say it's between 400 and 500 properties.
And by everything we can tell we're still way below that in terms of new product coming on.
With respect to our development pipeline we started 2012 with 19 properties 1.4 million square feet $133 million.
And we ended the year at about 30 properties 1.8 million square feet close to $200 million.
And that is growing each quarter net of deliveries.
As I touched on earlier in Q1 we'll deliver about 300 000 square feet $40 million in Q1 of that year-end pipeline and we'll see what we add in Q1 in terms of net-net production.
But we've got number of the key members of the team in place and they are out there finding product to add to our development pipeline.
So I'd expect it to grow hopefully another $100 million net over the course of 2014.
Our next question comes from the line of David Harris with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> They're not handing out Olympic gold medals for brevity of prepared remarks yet but I'm figuring gold medal slot when they do.
All right.
So my question is you may have touched upon this forgive me if I missed it Europe is still turning in fairly weak operational performance.
Is there any light at the end of the tunnel in sight here yet? David right Europe year-over-year I think we were down on same-store NOI about 2.4% which is probably the worst we've delivered in quite a while.
But I'll tell you things are starting to look pretty good -- or better not pretty good but I mean better.
We ended the year for the quarter 82.8% occupied versus 82%.
And if you took a sequential chart of kind of what happened to same-store occupancies we bottomed in Q1 '13 on a year-over-year basis down 3.9%.
We improved in Q2 Q3 and went positive in Q4 at 1% year-over-year comp.
Now obviously when you reduce the occupancy in the portfolio the comps get easier.
But I think we stabilized and the trend is positive in terms of year-over-year comps.
We've also weathered the implementation of VAT in London and so I'm hoping -- I'm anticipating that our 2014 comps versus '13 in our U.K.
portfolio will be positive.
And in fact we saw that in Q4 where same-store U.K.
was up 5.5% year-over-year.
So...
LLC Research Division</strong> Got problems in The Netherlands? Netherlands I think is -- we're starting to stabilize there as well.
Occupancy in Q4 we were up 72.8% versus 71.7% so we actually turned positive on occupancy in Holland in Q4 which has been a long time since that's happened.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now second question is this and it relates to some of the earlier questions on expenses.
I think on the last couple of quarters you've talked about the reduction in expenses not being on a sustainable trajectory and that you would expect that over time you'd revert to a more normalized 2% to 3%.
In the context of your comments earlier on advertising spend which is obviously a big item that's likely to start now trending at least flat if not quite at the same continued level of decline.
Are we going to see a 2% or 3% expense growth reemerge with this year? Or is that more of a '15 phenomenon you think? We're not one to give forecasts but I think John and I have consistently said over the years that when someone's evaluating this business that they should anticipate expense growth of 2% to 3%.
We continually -- continue to be vigilant here on expenses.
We will continue to be vigilant in 2014.
We're constantly thinking of ways to improve the cost efficiency of our business.
So what expenses actually turn out to be in '14 I can't tell you but we'll remain vigilant.
And ideally we would have 0 expense growth but I would tell you long term you should plan for 2% to 3%.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess as you're heading into the seasonally high period how do you see the rent increase letters stacking up this year compared to last year when you think of the size of the increase going out as well as the timing? Mike this is John.
I think from my perspective the timing will be very similar to last year.
We start sending out the increases in February and it continues on through probably August when the bulk of them are finally done.
And the bulk of the letters that do go out are really in the June July August kind of time frame.
So I think we'll continue to follow the same pattern.
I think in terms of percentage increases we'll be very similar again to what we did in 2013 where we were giving increases anywhere between -- in the range of 9% to 10%.
So I think we're going to continue to do that until we see evidence that suggest that we should do something different.
So I don't think it's -- I guess what I'm trying to tell you is we're not going to really change our strategy in 2014 from what we did in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And second question the non-same-store pool what was the year-end occupancy level of that? Hang on Mike.
It was 85.4% Mike.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa with ISI.
Research Division</strong> The one -- I guess one expense line item that did go up in the year and also for the quarter was G&amp;A.
And I'm just wondering if you can -- the kind of trends there.
Was there any maybe allocation issues or things John that maybe kind of moved around between property and overhead maybe like a reallocation? Or is there kind of onetime expenses in G&amp;A this year? How do we think about that? Yes.
Well first off we didn't reallocate expenses between G&amp;A and cost of operations.
We don't do that.
What you're seeing the increase is really we're experiencing higher levels of acquisition and development-type overhead because of -- we're expanding our development activities and we're also -- we did a lot more acquisitions in Q4.
So that helped drive up the G&amp;A costs.
The other thing that drove it up a little bit in the fourth quarter was increased stock-based compensation expense.
So that drove it up.
About $4 million of that change was about -- was from stock-based compensation expense.
Research Division</strong> And John how much of that would have been I guess transaction-related costs that were maybe...
Yes.
Well transaction-related costs last year to put it in perspective we incurred about $6.3 million and this year it's about $10.5 million -- I'm sorry that was for the full year though Steve.
Research Division</strong> No I understand.
So you're saying inside the $66 million about $10.5 million was kind of onetime transaction costs? Correct.
Now going forward depending on our acquisition and development activities that could be higher or lower.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Stender with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can we get your current thoughts on breaking ground on new development what your return requirements are? And kind of do you look at that as a spread over your acquisition cap rates and how you're underwriting things now versus say this time last year? Todd this is Ron.
Our development program is relatively new so there's been no change in how we're underwriting things today versus a year or 18 months ago.
And our development program is really structured and targeted around filling in markets where we don't have a presence.
So certain parts of Phoenix that have grown a lot over the years where there's an absence of product that's where we're targeting same in Denver same in Houston.
In a variety of markets around the country we're trying to build where there is relatively low per-capita self-storage relatively good incomes and relatively high densities of people relative to that market.
And where there's an absence of public storage property in that particular sub-market.
Returns can range anywhere from on a stabilized basis 7% to 12% depending on the product the opportunity set of that particular property.
Does that give you some color? LLC Research Division</strong> It sure does.
And how long would a period be for lease up say in a market like Phoenix? Lease-up is really a function of the size of the facility.
The typical self-storage facility that we're building is probably 75 000 square feet.
So we should think -- generally we're going to use about 3 years to stabilization.
Something like Gerard that had 4 000 units built over a period of 6 months we'll look at 4 4.5 years for stabilization at our target rate.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> You talked a little bit about acquisition opportunities just in terms of the market.
Are you seeing more portfolio opportunities similar to last year early on at this point? And then as we think about Europe I think you talked about it hitting an inflection point.
At what point do you start to feel comfortable -- do you feel comfortable starting to invest incremental dollars either be it development or acquisitions? Incremental dollars in Europe Mike? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
We're looking at some stuff in Europe.
We feel good about where our team is positioned the portfolio.
So we're looking at some things in Europe.
Most of the opportunity set in Europe as you would guess is on the development front.
So we're exploring that although I would say it would be modest 2 to 4 properties.
We're not talking 20 or 30 like here in the U.S.
But we're feeling pretty good about that and that's a function both of stabilization of operating -- operations as well as the tenure of the team over there.
With respect to the U.S.
and acquisition opportunities we are seeing more product come to market more I guess you could call them portfolios.
I don't know your definition of a portfolio is that more than 2 properties in a package but -- versus a single property deal so those will be portfolios.
We're seeing more of those but as I touched on earlier of lower quality than we've seen in the past which is kind of what you would expect given the robust activity of 2013.
Everyone now looks at that and looks at the prices at which some of the stuff traded and said "Well I'll bring mine to market at that price." So it's kind of a natural phenomenon.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Bragg with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Another question on transactions.
Given what you've pointed out as there being a lot more on the market put this in perspective for us as it relates to 2013 transaction volume.
As compared to the $1.2 billion that you completed in '13 what dollar volume of the deals that you underwrote ultimately transacted? What percentage of the stuff that we underwrote in 2013 did we actually close? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Correct.
It be a pretty high percentage because several of our larger deals the Stor-All transaction the Southern and -- we're not even on the market.
And most of that as you recall was back-half-loaded.
So if you -- I don't know where our transcript was first quarter of last year with respect to our outlook for acquisition volume for 2013 but I'm very confident it wasn't anything close to what actually transpired.
And part of that was the people at least on the larger transactions that we undertook had not decided to sell their portfolios.
So where we are today and kind of how the market evolves over 2014 I think can be very different than what people are looking at right now.
But our percentage of underwritten was pretty high last year because of the large size of non-marketed transactions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right understood.
And do you have a figure that you can share with us that -- in terms of the total institutional-quality storage transaction dollar volume that did occur in '13? Just looking to understand your share of that.
No I don't have that number.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Lesnick with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I'm standing in for Paula today.
Turning back to development and expansion projects for just a second.
Can you talk at all about how much of that $196 million is expected to come online in 2014? And maybe in broad strokes kind of the cadence quarter-to-quarter of how that's going to play out.
Sure.
So let see we got -- Q4 we had 3 properties that I touched on 300 000 square feet about $40 million.
Q2 will be 8 projects mainly redevelopments $12 million.
Q3 will be 4 285 000 square feet at $23 million and Q4 will be 9 transactions at $69 million.
So about -- of the $190 million -- close to $200 million in the pipeline close to $140 million will deliver this year at this time.
And that can change on weather and I'm sure some of the stuff we were planning is getting slightly delayed because of the weather right now.
But that's kind of what we're looking at today.
Our next question comes from line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Ron can you talk a little bit about the PS Business Parks from 2 perspectives.
One is PSA made the decision to invest I guess another $75 million into PSB when they did their last equity offering in the fourth quarter.
Can you just remind me the governance around that? Do you recuse yourself from those kinds of decisions? And number two if you're implicitly putting more money into the PSB does that not suggest that you see equal or better growth prospects in PSB than PSA otherwise why not just keep the capital inside of PSA? Why? I'm not going to get into a comparison of PSA and PSB Ross.
They're slightly different businesses and they're susceptibility to the economy is different.
I will tell you on PSB Joe and his team have done an outstanding job and they just had there conference call.
But PSB has been in a down trend in terms of rates and occupancies for the last couple of years.
They've made some great acquisitions that have not yet stabilized.
And so we're at a part in kind of the economic cycle where the trends are I would say quite favorable.
In terms of our capital allocation decision to PSB that is a decision made both by the Public Storage board and the PS Business Parks board in terms of our continued investment and Public Storage deciding to actually continue to invest in PSB.
It's been a wonderful investment and I think we were buying last year at $72 a share and so right now it's turned out pretty good for us.
Research Division</strong> And just to be clear from a governance perspective do you participate in any of those board discussions either at PSA or PSB? Yes.
Research Division</strong> There's no apparent conflict in wearing 2 hats and being on...
I already have the conflict.
Research Division</strong> So there is no apparent conflict there actually is a conflict? There is a conflict.
Our final question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick follow-ups.
I was just wondering you mentioned Ron the Street rates are 5% to 10% higher at this time.
As you move through the more active months in terms of leasing in the spring and the summer where there's a lot more turnover do you think -- is it your expectations that you'll be able to maintain that increase? I don't know the answer to that.
I hope we can but we'll have to find out together because my crystal ball is not that great.
So we'll keep doing it as I mentioned earlier and when the volume -- move-in volumes indicate that we can either do something different or have to do something different we will adjust accordingly.
And that's how we always operate our business when it comes to pricing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the occupancy increase it was up from the end of December to the end of January.
Is that typical to see during the month of January? You mean the increase in the spread or the occupancy -- the absolute occupancy itself? Research Division</strong> Yes the absolute occupancy.
You ended the year at 91.6% and at the end of January I think you said 92.2%? Yes.
I'm looking back about the past 4 years and that has been typical in the past 4 years.
And that was our final question.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to Clem for any additional or closing remarks.
I want to thank everybody for participating on our call this morning and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Have a good day.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and Gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Public Storage First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
[Operator Instructions].
Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Clem Teng.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
Thank you Laurie.
Thank you for joining us for our first quarter earnings call.
Here with me today are Ron Havner and John Reyes.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this conference call are forward-looking statements subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.
These risks and other factors that could adversely affect our business and future results are described in today's earnings press release and in our reports filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of today May 2 2014 and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Reconciliation to GAAP or the non-GAAP financial measures we are providing on this call is included in our earnings press release.
You can find our press release SEC reports and audio webcast replay of this conference call on our website at www.publicstorage.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ron.
Good morning and thanks Clem.
We had another solid quarter; our fundamentals to the self-storage business I have to say are pretty good.
During Q1 we had higher movements at higher movement rates instead less to acquire the customers which are staying longer.
Further new supply in our industry is nominal and this makes for an ideal operating environment.
Now with that operator lets open up for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Hey Ron good morning.
Good morning.
Research Division</strong>  Can you talk a little bit more about what you are seeing on the rate side your realized rate growth has sort of being hovering here in the 4 to 4.3% range for the last three quarters.
So just a little more color on the traction you are getting in terms of being able to start pushing rate higher now that your occupancy comps hit the wall probably the summer? Ross this is John.
Yeah we are starting to push the Street rates that we are seeing.
People are actually taking those rates and I’d assume move-in rate was actually up about 3% combined with that we cater for both of those the actual discount today.
As we moved into people we continue to push Street rates and a move-in volume was about flat for the month of April but the take rate goes up about 6%.
Again it was probably discounting.
As we move forward I think we’ll continue to try to push Street rates but the Street rates are currently up about 6% to 7%.
I don’t think we’ll get a lot of traction on reducing discounts further.
Our standalone strategy right now is to continue to push Street rates and I don’t think they can be both at the same time.
So we’ll see how that goes as we move into you know a really busy month which are May and June and see how well we can consider to keep or hold our occupancies with ahead of Street rates.
The next question comes from the line of Vikram Malhotra of Morgan Stanley.
Hi this is Landon on for Vikram.
I just had a quick question on you know the occupancy gain that we saw in the first quarter on the 70 basis point magnitude.
Is that something that you think that we could continue to see for the rest of the year or is that magnitude you know trail off in the higher – in the high season? Hi Vikram this is Ron.
I’ll let John amplify that you know for Landon.
In April end of April our occupancies were 93.9 versus 92.9 last year so up about full 100 bips year-over-year on same-store pool.
But as we go into May and June consistent with last year which we have no reason to believe it won’t be.
We’ll kind of get sold out so we’ll peak out at 95%-95.5% occupancy in the system.
Okay great.
And then just moving to expenses I know there was obviously excess snow removal cost in the quarter but was there anything one-time other than that in the quarter or excess – or ex the snow removal is that sort of the rate that we should expect to see going forward? Overall expenses if you take out the weather-related cost both on the snow removal and the utilities I think our expenses were pretty flat.
And going into – you know property taxes were up to 4% to 5% I think payroll is up 1% to 2%.
So we think those trends will continue into the balance of the year.
In Q2 we expect about $0.5 million less on advertising but other than that most everything should trend at least at this time to what we see in Q1.
So that flat growth you think can continue.
Well I think we benefitted in Q1 from lower advertising and we’re only going to get about 0.5 million up on that in Q2.
So the other stuff that you see you know the payroll the property taxes management those will trend about the same as Q1.
Okay great.
Thank you very much for the clarification.
That’s all I have.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas of KeyBanc.
Hey it’s Jordan Sadler here with Todd.
Wanted to just follow up on the total revenue growth potential.
It seems like the street rates is – you’re getting real nice traction up 6% to 7% I think you said John.
If you sort of layer in a little bit of occupancy and a little bit of reduced discounting on a year-over-year basis I know you’re not necessarily going to try and drive it further – or down further through the rest of the year but are we looking at a 10-percentish type REVPAF potential growth? In our same store department? Yeah.
Not at all.
Not at all.
No.
The piece of the equation that I think you missed is the move-outs.
The move-out volume has picked up a little bit versus last year and they’re moving out at higher rates rental rates.
And the reason why that’s happening is because we’ve been aggressive about pushing rates to existing tenants and other time obviously they’ve gapped up quite a bit.
And now when they’re moving out not that they’re moving out any faster than they were before but when they do move out they’re taking with them higher rental rates with them.
So as we’re moving people in even though they’re coming in at 6% higher year-over-year rates on the moving inside they’re moving out at higher rates than their move-in rates.
So for every move-in that we replaced – or every move-out that we replaced with a move-in we actually rent rolled down.
And we have been rent rolling down for quite a number of quarters now for at least about I would say three years or so.
So there is leakage.
So although mathematically what you said may work the leakage brings it back down quite a bit.
But moving (indiscernible) rates Jordon narrows that gap between the rent roll between the move-outs and the move-ins so that’s a positive in that regard.
The other thing that I would add to what John said is you know I touched on customers are staying longer 56% of our customer base has been here over a year that’s a pretty low churn part of the portfolio.
So those customers will give rental rate increases consistent with last year but they’re not going to be changing based on changes in street rates.
Okay.
That makes sense.
Have the roll-downs changed at all as you started to push street rate here in April? Are we looking at 3% mark-to-market when you – in terms of the roll-down as replacing and move-out? Well the roll-down has changed a little bit but just really recently because – just recently have we really been pushing the street rates in this month in April because as I mentioned during the first quarter the move in rate was up about 3% whereas in April it was up about – a little over 6%.
So it’s just recently that we’ve really maybe narrowed that market – that spread – that year-over-year spread.
Okay.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy of Citigroup.
Hey good morning to you guys.
Ron I’m wondering if you could talk a little bit about your view of the acquisitions environment and what sort of opportunities you’re seeing out there currently and what are your efforts internally in terms of trying to source deals? Well our efforts in terms of sourcing deals are consistent with what we’ve always had.
We’ve had a couple of people that do focus on acquisitions.
They’re very experienced people and they’re pretty much in the flow of everything going on.
So that hasn’t changed at all.
In terms of what we’re seeing I think I touched on last quarter that the price that we’re seeing is of lesser quality than we saw last year.
That continues to be the case.
Although I will say that there’s been an uptrend in terms of quality coming to the market which is probably not unusual given – you know it takes people time to decide and get product out on to the market.
So the quality is up taking a little bit but it’s still overall I’ll say lesser than last year.
Then in Europe you’ve had some nice traction there in terms of turning revenue into high growth positive occupancies are up or rents are down.
How are you approaching revenue management in the region? In the environment there are some orders as sort of few years ago in the US early stages of recovery? You know Christy that’s a very good information.
Last year second half of the year we’ve started tag differently in Europe with much more aggressive asking rate rental reductions something that we have experimented with here in the US we applied over there first month 50% off.
We tried it in a couple Markets in September.
It really worked we did it again in November and again in March and as you touched on you’ve seen a nice uptick in occupancies.
At the end of the quarter we were 86.1 in Europe versus 79.5 so it’s over 600 basis points year-over-year uptick in occupancy.
At – offsetting that was a reduction in place rents of about 5%.
But our goal over there it’s the same similar to US gets a portfolio up there over there to the low to mid 90s occupancy.
And so we’ll continue with that pricing strategy until we get the portfolio stabilized at a higher rate.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan [Burge] of Green Street Advisors.
Hi just hoping for an update on the preferred market in particular the March offering was sizeable but the April offering was pretty small.
So did you get smaller on that lateral offering just simply based on your immediate capital needs or is there something that you foresee plan out in the preferred market over the rest of the year? Well the April offering that we did was really re-opening of our series wide preferred.
We had an interest move a single institutional investor to who was interested in taking down about 50 million of our existing serried [wire] so we went ahead and consummated that transaction.
So that wasn’t marketed by any means.
Okay.
In terms of the preferred market I think its’ firming up it’s getting better.
Our existing preferred out there are trading well.
We are hoping to get better obviously and I wouldn’t put it half this I’m trying to go out into the market sometime during Q2 Q3 and test it again and see what we can raise you know if the markets are there for us.
We still have about 320 million on our bank term loan that we need to deal with before it matures in December of this year; I mean that would be one way that we would think about repaying the rest of it.
Okay.
Thank you and then question looking at the back page of the supplemental on the 2012 acquisition break out.
On my numbers the NOI you give there implies that you are getting a yield on cost in those assets north of 7% that’s on assets that are 86% occupied.
I believe that the 2011 acquisition bucket ended up north of the 10% yield.
Just curious if you can give us your thoughts on you know what we should how we should think about the yields moving forward on the 2012 and ’13 buckets? Well -- the [12] you are right exclusive close to 7% on the occupancy sell out room for occupancy growth.
We start moving for rate growth.
One of the things that we do when we acquire properties as we get very conservative on the rates so we can fill up the properties rather quickly and then as they are getting to you know a stabilized occupancy level then we start being aggressive on increasing rental rates to the existing tenant base and we really haven’t been aggressive on the 2012 and 2013 acquisition tenant base but we plan on starting to do that this year.
So I think in both portfolios whether it be the 20 the 2012 or the 2013 we have both occupancy gains to be had there as well as increasing the existing tenant base prior rental rates.
Great.
Thank you that’s all from me.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller of JP Morgan Yeah hi looking at the development what do you see in terms of the pace of lease up compared to like what you typically underwrite for and just kind of what the experience was during the last cycle due for the downturn?  Well Mike you know that the last cycle before a downturns ’05 ’06 ’07 we didn’t have much in the development pipeline during that period of time.
So I really can’t kind of comment on how this would compare to that time.
I could tell you on the step that we’re opening it is filling up faster that we anticipated.
But as John just touched on when we opened new developments or acquired properties that are you know lower at occupancy levels lower than what we view as stabilized we’re a little more aggressive on rental rates until they achieved stabilization.
You know and a good example is our Bronx Gerard property that ended April at 67% occupied not even open a year or so it’s got 3000 plus units leased up but those are at rates about 60% or 70% of what we’ve forecast.
So we’re filling up much faster but we’re doing with more aggressive rental rates.
Got it okay.
And one follow-up on G&amp;A it was about 18 million this quarter.
Can you talk about was there anything impacting that that was one-time in nature and what do you expect for the balance of the year? Mike there wasn’t anything in there that was really one-time in G&amp;A.
As for the balance of the year you know I think we’re going to be relatively consistent with last year and I caveat that with it will depend on our acquisition volumes going forward because a lot of the acquisition costs do get expensed through G&amp;A.
So depending on how much acquisitions we do that could change it quite a bit one way or another.
And excluding those acquisition costs you think it will be comparable year-over-year as well? As far as we can tell right now we don’t see anything right now that would cause us to believe that it could be either significantly higher or lower.
Okay great.
Thanks.
(Operator Instructions) The next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Hi good afternoon everyone.
I may have missed this but Ron your comments earlier on about the roll-down in the rents when you – an old tenant – when a current tenant moves out.
I’m just kind of curious could you just give us a sense of what that average rent is versus what street rents are so we can get a sense of what that roll-down is? Tayo I think – and John can elaborate this that will be in the 10Q and so you can compare it you know what it was last year what it was this year and obviously it varies by market.
Let me give you some numbers.
I’m not sure to what degree it’s actually disclosed in our 10Q but it’s disclosed on a square foot basis actually in our 10Q.
I’m going to give it to you on a unit basis or a move-in basis so during the first quarter of this year for example the average move-in rate in our same store was about $114 per move-in.
The move-out rate during that same period of time was about $123 and so it’s about $10 swing – negative swing.
Last year it was – the move-in rate was about $111 versus a move-out rate of $119.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you there.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Neil Malkin of RBC.
LLC</strong> Hey gentlemen good morning.
My question is given the strength in storage have you guys seen opportunities or are you going to look at opportunities with private developers to take out their development CO buyout as it were.
I just – you’ve been looking at this theme come to the market more.
Mike we’re seeing and hearing about people doing that and – but we’re not doing that ourselves.
We’ve engaged some – we’ve got some local guys helping us develop in certain markets but for the most part we’ve got our own team building our property.
And it’s not to say we wouldn’t do that at a C of O.
Last year we acquired some properties in Boston one newly C of O and then one that was still under development.
So we have done that.
I wouldn’t rule it out but that’s really not how we’re undertaking our development program.
LLC</strong> Got it got it.
Okay next question clearly the Public guys have been very successful at increasing demand – you know occupancies have been continuing to go up and almost at record levels.
Do you think that’s from paradigm shift sort of to people using mobile or online to get rate or deals that a mom-and-pop couldn’t provide.
Do you think that’s definitely helped you or is that just an extra gravy for you guys? Well I think the ability of the larger operators to place themselves in better rankings on either the desktop or mobile is very helpful in the sense that more and more people are using the internet or mobile to access the information on top storage rentals.
I could tell you that as we’ve tracked it internally last year – during the first quarter of last year roughly 51% of our move-ins came through an internet channel.
And that compares to this year where it’s now 58%.
So it continues to increase as people are using internet and mobile.
Mobile has been rising quite a bit and it’s certainly helpful to be a big player because you can get – you could afford to buy your way into placement as well as have the relevancy to place well on desktop and match one and local maps suit yourself.
So yeah it’s managed to be a large operator in self storage.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Thank you and finally and assume the commentaries about the roll down.
You know you guys are pushing Street rates pretty aggressively which is great.
But you know the renewals on average are 2% to 3% higher than Street rates.
Are you worried at all because from the higher maintained occupancy and lower churns that overtime that in fact will be compounded and the roll downs will continue and exacerbate the retarding of revenue growth? Thanks.
That’s alright.
That’s been happening for years now.
We have talked about the rent roll down has been going on.
And it’s largely because there is a dynamic that the mark-to-market is actually a negative number and has been for quite sometime.
So our existing tenant base is if you look at it on average is paying more than our market rates are.
And that’s its you know a testament to how sticky people are and you can continue to head in what their increase is and not withstanding the fact that they could be you know obtain 10 15% above market they still stay.
The difficulty is when they moved out when they move out though however we have the immediate roll down as we replace them.
You know Mike to further John’s point they don’t have this on a per square foot basis.
But if you look at our average move-in rates over the last six or eight years in 2007 2008 customers were moving it about $123 $124.
Q4 they were moving into the $114.
So while the rates the 114 starts year-over-year as John went through.
They are still you know call it $10 a month longer than where they work in ’07 ’08.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes form the line of Ross Nussbaum of UBS Hey guys couple of follow up.
First where do you think your Street rates are today versus your closest competition? It depends Ross.
We track it by market by property so it really depnds I think overall in the system we are probably a little bit above competition for the most part and in probably most markets that we operate in.
Second question would be just to confirm I think last year you were bumping around 10 existing customers probably number was like around 8% or 9% is that still the case? Yes it’s pretty much the same this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Paula Poskon of Robert W.
Baird Thanks good afternoon everyone.
Hi Paula.
I got a big picture question on the acquisition market Ron.
I think that some of us tend to have a tendency to forget just how fragmented this industry continues to be.
On the private side what do you think the number of truly large but institutional quality portfolios exist that maybe just still in the hands of reluctant sellers? Paula you know our best guess I’ve got David down here with me and – we’ve looked at that in a number of markets.
And my guess is less than 20.
Thanks Ron.
Your final question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim of SunTrust.
Quick question on -- the number of customers that you plan to send out rent increases to in the summer time.
I think the last time it was about 55% any change in that number that you are planning for this year? Well I took up the same key just to look maybe a little bit more because the ageing as Ron pointed out earlier; we have a better ace kind of base in other words.
So if we have more customers that meet the criteria so we’ll probably give out in terms of number the volume slightly more than last year.
Okay.
And final question for me the number of customers we seen in promotions I know you guys get asked that once in awhile.
Any update on where it is today versus last year in the same period? No its’ about roughly about 80% of the move-in volumes we see some sort of a promotion in the full blown dollar for the first month or 50% off.
Okay alright thank you.
You’re welcome.
We have time for one more question.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas of KeyBanc.
Hey it’s Jordan Sadler for Todd here again.
I just on the acquisition side its rumored that there is a sizeable portfolio out there for sale.
We’re just talking about 20 or so or less that remain after that that are of institutional quality.
Is there anything sort of on your radar right now that’s for sale? Oh Jordan there is always stuff on our radar both stuff that’s -- in the market and being marketed as well as stuff that’s not or being marketed.
Three of our largest transactions our largest transactions or two of these transactions last year had no packages no broker involved.
So we’re in dialogue with you know we know the call it 20 or so people as well as people are grouped to people’s institutions or – operators have you know aren’t in the big group all the time.
So so there’s always stuff on our radar.
Always of course.
I guess another way of sort of slicing it I’m curious about sort of maybe your – you know how you see the competitive set in terms of capital today.
I mean are you able to get deals done here given your sort of discipline on the underwriting still? Why I think you can look in Q4 last year where we took down around 700 million in the fourth quarter.
Are we able to get deals? Yes.
Is it competitive? Yes.
Stabilized properties are a challenge especially one and two ops because there’s – to your point there’s plenty of financing where there is CMBS bank financing or public market financing.
So where money is cheap assets are expensive.
Is there any change on the underwriting side meaning I know that you’ve historically been a replacement cost buyer but is there – are replacement costs moving up or is your view of replacement costs moving up materially or do you attribute value to in place customers and cash flow to a greater extent today than before? Well that’s a lot of questions but I’ll try to answer it.
A property that’s stabilized with an existing customer base is worth more than one that has to go through three years or so of fill-up not only because you don’t have the fill-up risk but generally the customer base is mature and more stable.
And therefore is more susceptible promptly to rental – annual rental rate increases whereas a property that is in fill-up it’s going to be much more challenging and there’s obviously fewer customers to send out rental rate increases to for property that’s in fill-up than one that’s stabilized.
So yes stabilized acquisitions are worth more per se than development.
I think I touched on before in terms of our view – my view of replacement cost and I kind of went through this in this year’s shareholders letter.
In a market like Reno Nevada where there is lots of land and abundance of product and low population density with lower incomes those are properties that we would acquire but we want to do them at substantial discounts to replacement costs about 50% or 60%.
You can track that to lower Manhattan where there is higher incomes very little competition great density of people and you know we’d be willing to pay 175% of replacement cost because the huge barriers to entries and the great customer aspects of that market.
So it just depends on the particular market.
Does that address your question? Yeah I appreciate your flushing it out gave me an opportunity to advertise the letter.
I’m going to have to go back and read it again.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks.
At this time there are no further questions I’ll now return the call to Clem Teng for any additional or closing remarks.
Yes.
I just wanted to mention that JP Morgan will be hosting a tour of our 4000 unit Gerard facility in the Bronx.
The tour would take place on Monday June 2nd the day prior to the Navy conference in New York City.
So with that I just want to appreciate everybody questions this morning and we’ll talk to you next quarter.
Thank you for participating in the Public Storage first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Public Storage’s Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speaker’s remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Clem Teng.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our second quarter earnings call.
Here with me today are Ron Havner and John Reyes.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this conference call are forward-looking statements subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.
Those risks and other factors that could adversely affect our business and future results are described in today’s earnings press release and in our reports filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of today August 1 2014 and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Reconciliation to GAAP or the non-GAAP financial measures we are providing on this call is included in our earnings press release.
You can find our press release SEC reports and audio webcast replay of this conference call on our website at www.publicstorage.com.
I’ll turn the call over to Ron.
Thank you Clem and welcome everyone.
We had another solid quarter.
Our fundamentals to the self-storage business continue to be excellent.
With that operator we’ll open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust.
Good morning guys.
Could you just talk a little bit more about kind of your future longer term capital deployment plans especially as it relates to development you have about $240 million today.
What is the longer term dollar value that you feel comfortable with? Well Ki this is Ron.
Is your question how big do we expect the pipeline to grow in terms of – because it was like I think $1 590 [ph] million to being the year and it’s now $240 million.
Is that your question? Yes.
Yes.
Well I think we’re trying to get it up to about $300 million to $350 million.
Keep in mind that most of our projects is $7 million to $8 million.
And it takes – we have to go through three or four properties to get one kind of into the pipeline.
So that’s a lot of projects when you get to $300 million $350 million.
If we get there and feel good about it we could take it to $400 million.
That would be fine if the market is there and our processes are in place to achieve that level of production.
And just a follow-up to that.
So let’s say call it $350 million how much visibility do you have in terms of let’s say next year when you try and start $350 million or get to that in terms of which market can support it should you do it those type of questions.
Well we have a number of people in the development group that are looking at sites in certain identified key markets.
And so part of our development activities is first being able to find the appropriate sites get the right zoning and being able to develop and conceive a project that actually kind of makes the economic sense to us both in terms of rate of return but also where it fits into the portfolio.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Hi good morning.
Jeremy Metz on with Ross.
Can you just talk about where your net rents net of discounts where they were from move-ins this quarter versus move-outs and kind of how that spread compared to the last year.
Are they getting wider or narrowing? Yes Jeremy this is John.
So move-ins were coming in at a monthly rate of about $121.97 on average.
The move-outs were leaving at an average rate of about $124.
So there is a net negative spread there of about $2.03.
On the move-in side in terms of the discount side roughly – we gave away roughly $20 million of discounts.
That was the same – this is during the quarter and that was the same as last year.
For the last year in the same quarter move-ins were coming in at $114.20 and they were vacating at $119.70.
So that was a negative spread of $5.50.
So the spreads obviously narrowed but nonetheless it’s still a negative spread rent roll down.
Okay.
And then just in terms of the discount for the 5.3% revenue growth this quarter that you’ve put out.
Just how much of that was your ability to squeeze discounts and as you look out at the back half of this year can you squeeze discounts even more from here or is that kind of leveling off at this point? Jeremy the discounts were about $20 million in both quarters for the second quarter of this year.
Notwithstanding the fact we’re actually giving away and in terms of the absolute number less discounts the dollar value of those discounts is more because the rental rates are higher.
Folks are moving in at about 7% higher rates during the quarter than they were last year.
So even though notwithstanding the fact again that we gave away less discounts on a per move-in the absolute dollars was flat because of the rental rate being up 7%.
Going forward I think the discounts would probably be fairly consistent with last year probably pretty flat.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with Citigroup.
Just sort of a follow-up on Ki Bin’s question.
Ron you’ve been rebuilding your ground-up development platform for a couple of years now.
Now that you’re a year or two into doing projects are the returns looking better or worse than when you originally fed out are you thinking about any changes to the process or in doing projects on balance sheet versus with the partner? Some of your REIT peers have been increasingly buying those deals to get some development exposure.
Just hoping to get your current thoughts of your approach development to that? That’s a lot of questions Christy.
Our development program I would say we initiated it probably two 2.5 years ago.
It continues to grow.
The team is not yet quite complete.
Our processes are somewhat evolving and what we’re finding in the market we’re having to adapt to different things in the marketplace.
In terms of returns and are we achieving the yields that we thought.
In our business it takes six months to find a site six to 12 months to build it and generally two to three years to fill it.
So it would be a couple of years before we absolutely know whether we achieved our targeted yields but so far most of the properties are filling up faster than we anticipated although in some cases lower than pro forma risk as we trying to accelerate the fill up where we’re building it pretty close to on-time pretty close to on-budge.
We haven’t had any big hiccups.
So I am feeling really good about our development activities at this juncture.
In terms of other people buying CFOs [ph] or partially completed properties I think we’ve mentioned before that we anticipated that.
Some have been rather vocal about not wanting the development program but you can do development in variety of ways and one of them is just buy CFO [ph] building.
And how do you think about doing projects with a partner versus on your own? We’re fine with that.
It’s really a cost to capital analysis.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Spector with Bank of America.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for the time.
Can you comment on supply tracking in your markets today versus let’s say a year ago? Jeff we don’t have any stats here by market.
I can’t tell you – as I said before that development is much more of a conversation today.
There are people developing in a number of markets.
Is it significant relative to the existing base? No.
But it’s accelerating and I would expect it to continue to accelerate over the next year or two.
Okay thanks Ron.
And then quick question on occupancy yet another nice quarter of occupancy growth.
How are you thinking about occupancy against how high you can get it versus pushing rents? What are your latest thoughts there on that balance? Well we’re going to continue to push rents as we’ve talked about.
In terms of occupancy we mentioned that it’s going to get tougher and tougher to move the occupancy spread which you see that during the quarter that spread has narrowed quite a bit.
It’s gapped out a little bit by the end of July.
What I am hoping to try to accomplish with our portfolio is to see if during the fourth quarter we can gap it out a little bit more by maybe doing a little more advertising on television and seeing if we can get some traction and flatten out the occupancy curve during the first – the fourth quarter and into the first quarter of 2015.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Vikram Malhotra with Morgan Stanley.
Thanks.
I want to just touch on Europe you’ve had a couple of quarters of improving occupancy.
Just want to get a sense of what you’re seeing there and could we expect at some point rents to start increasing there as well? Well we’ve gotten some positive traction here in Europe starting in Q3 of last year where we changed our pricing strategy there and done some pretty aggressive promotional programs.
And that seems to have worked both in the Q4 last year and into this year which you see reflected in the occupancy is up about 7% year-over-year.
And that’s pretty much across the entire platform.
Even Holland is up from 74.2% from 69.2% last year.
At this juncture – and we’re doing that at the expense of rolling down rents.
So if you look at the table you see that the in-place rents are rolling down.
I would expect that program to continue for the foreseeable future until we get the portfolio at a much higher stabilized occupancy levels say in the low 90s and drive volumes with promotional discounts.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with Keybanc Capital Markets.
It’s Jordan Sadler with Todd.
95% occupancy stunning.
How is it even possible? I guess I’m just trying to think of the frictional vacancy and just maybe I don’t think if I asked you guys if you could get the 95% occupancy six months ago even or a year ago that would have said yes no problem.
Are you doing anything differently anything you could sort of shed some light on? Jordan this is Ron.
I’ll analogize this to flying a plane.
It’s one thing to take a low level plane and kind of operate at 85.
It’s another for a jet at 90.
And when you get into the 95 think of it more as like an astronaut.
So you’ve got to operate a little differently and your inventory systems has to be little different your pricing has to be a little different.
And so we continue to push it here.
And if we can get it to 96% we love to do that.
Right now as John said we’re trying to take some of the seasonality out of the business both in Q1 and Q4 of this year.
And I think that will be a good achievement in and of itself.
And where were you at the end of July? We were at 94.8%.
Okay.
About at the same level essentially.
We do expect – I mean as we get into the back half of the year you lose a little bit but try to retain as much as possible.
Well after June Jordan – and you know this because you’re following the industry now for a long time.
After June it’s net move-out for the balance of the year.
So in July we had net move-outs of 4 200 customers versus about 6 000 last year.
So while our occupancy was 94.8% that’s up from 94.4% in the prior year.
So we do have better in July both on the move-ins and the move-outside than we did last year.
Thank you.
And then Just a quick follow-up.
Little bigger picture on the aggregators that are out there.
You guys have had the larger players in the space public players have this big competitive advantage of teams.
I am just curious as to your thoughts in terms of the ability of these aggregators out there to sort of help out the little guys and sort of close the gap if you will in terms of that relative advantage.
You think that’s a year out two years out or never? Jordan this is John.
I think the aggregators had in fact helped the little guys improve probably on their occupancies and their ability to get visibility on the internet.
So I think – I don’t know whether it’s economically benefit to the little guys I think it has benefited their ability to get with the volumes.
So I think it’s a positive for them.
For us we would rather than not be there than be there all things being equal but they are there and we deal with them and we compete with them when we’re bidding for search terms which again I’d rather not be competing with them but there we have to compete with them.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JP Morgan.
Yes hi.
I was wondering if you can comment on the properties you bought not necessarily in second quarter but in July that $240 million and where is occupancy where did they come from etcetera? Well they were principally one portfolio Mike.
And they were in let’s see in D.C.
Orlando Tampa Sarasota Fort Myers and then various other submarkets across Florida and New Jersey and North Carolina.
I think their occupancy at the end of July was about 92% and that ranged from a high of let’s see 96.9% for one property down to one that was at 68.8%.
So this would kind of validate something I have said for a long time is if you have good properties and a good manager you’ll do just fine in this business.
These properties were operated with a variety of different names no internet marketing no brand name and yet we had a number of properties that 96% plus occupancy.
So really good quality real estate.
I mean it seems like when you typically buy stuff in the past the occupancy is lower and that’s part of the play.
Occupancy is clearly higher on this one it’s because there is something just in terms of rate that’s compelling or something else? Well Florida [ph] – so my guess is we’ll probably end up doing a little better on expenses maybe a little better on pricing and there is some properties in here with some occupancy opportunities as well.
Okay thanks.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Burke with Green Street Advisors.
Thank you.
A follow-up Jordan’s question earlier.
Can you just provide some more detail on how operating a property that is 95% occupied might be fundamentally different in some ways than operating properties let’s say 85% or below that? Ryan this is Ron.
There is a variety of things and I’d rather not do that because from a competitive standpoint this is really not the forum to get into that kind of discussion.
Okay understood.
Thank you.
Second question you achieved a pretty nice increase in the yields on your 2012 acquisition bucket year-over-year.
It’s been a fantastic operating environment over that time period both new supply and the affect of aggregators that we mentioned on the call so far but looking forward from where we stand right now stay over the two or three years is there anything that you see that might fundamentally change in the sector whether it be for better or worse? I’m not sure – in terms of two to three years that’s a long time and I am not really capable of forecasting out that far.
I would say right now the fundamentals are very good.
I think the – I don’t know if all the public companies have reported but certainly the ones that have have demonstrated strong fundamentals.
Certainly our same store properties demonstrates strong fundamental.
There is development going on in the marketplace.
We’re developing other people are developing.
So supply is on the uptick.
So when you kind of look at the big picture of the industry from where it was four years ago rates are higher occupancy is higher and development is starting.
So kind of the risk of the industry is probably a little greater today than it was four years ago but I think we’ve probably have at least another year or two of great fundamentals for this business.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Omotayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Yes good afternoon.
Just two quick questions from me.
The first one just along the line of the aggregators that are now moving into the sector.
Just wondering does it make sense – again as you guys being the largest player in the market to try to take on that rule or kind of build up a third-party asset management business like some of your peers or when you look at the economics of that business you just don’t think it’s worth it? Tayo this is Ron.
I think one of the really distinguishing features of our Public Storage vis-à-vis the other operators and the aggregators is branding.
We get a fair amount of our – 70% of our searches are organic.
That means someone is punching in Public Storage and so we don’t pay for that.
And I am pretty confident no one is even close to that number in terms of organic searches.
And when 70% or 80% of the business is coming through the web and another 70% or 80% of that is organic for us we are just in a much different place than the other operators in the industry that really don’t have a brand name.
Okay.
All right that’s helpful.
And then the second question is with the ramp-up on the ground-up development just curious if that’s a commentary on you feeling less bullish on the acquisition side of the business or you really kind of see good opportunities for external growth both from development and acquisitions? The second.
Okay the second.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Great quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with Suntrust.
Thank you.
Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
Could you give the – you guys typically give the comp promotions stat what was in the second quarter in terms of number of customers receiving a promotion? And I guess you typically give it in percentage terms the decline in the amount of promotion dollars? Ki I think – this is just off the top of my head.
I think we gave away about roughly 65% of our move-ins received some sort of a promotion.
And remember our promotions could be 50% off the first month or a $1 for the first month.
And then last year I think it was roughly around 70-ish or something like that.
Dollar amount Ki John mentioned earlier is about the same $20 million to $20 million.
Okay.
And… But the rates were up 7% so that would tell you – rates were up 7% on that that the number of customers must be down where the dollar – the percent of actual dollars we’re giving away in terms of 50% versus the dollar would be down 7% to offset that.
And just second question.
Your payroll costs declined 4% on your same store portfolio.
Just curious what you did there? We’ve done some things in terms of labor management to help improve the productivity of field operations.
So which is basically less hours to pay for? Fewer hours yes.
Yes.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with Keybanc Capital Markets.
Hi it’s Jordan again.
I just wanted to come back to the acquisition question.
It sounds like there is some opportunities.
With Europe turning around as sharply as it is now operationally is that on the radar again maybe views on sort of incremental investment there? Yes Jordan I wish there were more acquisition opportunities in Europe of the products that we like.
It’s pretty slim pick-ins in large measure because the industry size over there is far smaller than the U.S.
Recall Europe has probably 1 500 facilities and I think 800 or 900 of them are in Great Britain.
In the Great Britain we’re not really interested in too much product outside of the London and the M25.
And there is a lot of product outside there in kind of country-side that we have no interest to it.
When you get into continent there is not a lot of property portfolios that are interest to us.
Couple and we’re in contact with those people.
If we could do something we probably do that especially since we’ve kind of got the finances in the balance sheet in Europe fixed.
My longer term expectation is that in Europe it’s more of a development play.
And so we’re looking to undertake some development there mainly in London.
So you’ve started to invest in the development platform in London again? Yes.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Jordan.
Our next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with Citigroup.
Yes it’s Michael Bilerman.
I just had a follow-up.
In terms of the occupancy what’s that standard? You have 2 000 facilities how clustered are those around the 95%? So I don’t know if you can maybe put them into some groupings in terms of – there are certain amount of facilities that are running much higher that call it 97% 98% or even up the full which is kind of nutty but maybe you do have some.
And then how far down to go and what that bucket is? Hi Jordan this is John.
It’s Bilerman.
Sorry Michael.
I used to work with Jordan but… I am sorry.
We do have some properties that are highly occupied.
There is probably one in there that’s 99% and there may even be one at the 100% occupied and we’ve seen that in our portfolio for our same store properties but I would say the bulk of them are clustered.
If you did like a bell curve it would be very tight bell curve right around that 95%.
Just the odds are it is probably nothing below – in the same store below 85% because we would have done something with that property with pricing and promotion to try to push it back up real quick.
So it is a fairly tight kind of bell curve around the 95%.
And then as we think about the acquisitions that you did last year I think it was north of over a $1 billion.
And I can remember last year we talked about yields and Ron I think you said it was 0% to 8%.
I am curious now as those acquisitions have been under your belt for a little while what that current yield is and where ultimately can go as we look at the ‘15 because arguably that’s a nice piece of your growth platform? Yes.
Michael for the 2013 acquisitions for the six months the yield was 5.1% excluding merchandize and tenant insurance.
And what it will be next year I’m not sure but I’m pretty confident it’s going to be higher.
Thank you.
And that appears to be your final question.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Clem Teng for any additional or closing remarks.
We appreciate everybody’s participation this morning and we will talk to you next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Public Storage Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Clem Teng.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our third quarter earnings call.
Here with me today are Ron Havner and John Reyes.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this conference call are forward-looking statements subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.
Those risk and other factors that could adversely affect our business and future results are described in today's earnings press release and in our reports filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of today October 31 2014 and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A reconciliation of GAAP of the non-GAAP financial measures we are providing on this call is included in our earnings press release.
You can find our press release SEC reports and an audio webcast replay of this conference call on our website at www.publicstorage.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ron.
Thank you Clem.
As we reported yesterday we had pretty good Q3.
The trends are positive.
Our development pipeline is expanding nicely.
And we're taking down -- we will take down about $400 million plus of acquisitions this year.
So it's turning out to be a pretty good 2014.
With that we'll open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Jeremy Matz with Ross.
Ron can you just talk about how rent and discount trends have been going here into fourth quarter? Sure I'll let John touch on that.
The trends are positive.
Yes month-to-date in October our move-in volumes up about 3%.
And the rates that are being taken are about up about 4%.
So pretty happy about that.
Street rates are up currently about 5.5%.
I will say this however during the month of October we did start discounting a little bit more than we had in the past.
So our discounting is up about 5% or so.
One of the things we're trying to do as I mentioned in the last call was we're trying to gap out our occupancy going to the fourth quarter and the first quarter of next year so we are spending more on television advertising as well as Internet advertising.
And along those lines we're also giving away more discounting to try to get our occupancy spreads wider.
Research Division</strong> And on the -- and for the -- move-ins during the quarter what was the realize -- the gap between the realized rents for the move-in versus move-outs? For the quarter folks were moving out at about $133 a month -- monthly rent versus move-ins were coming in at $131.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like that gap has actually narrowed some from prior quarters.
Yes.
And if you want to compare it to last year -- the quarter of last year they were moving out at $128 and moving in at $126.
Research Division</strong> And then I think Ross had a question as well.
Research Division</strong> Ron I missed unfortunately your lengthy opening comments so hopefully you didn't touch on this.
That was a joke.
But can you talk about your development pipeline and in particular it looks like you added $100 million of projects to the pipeline.
Can you just review where those new projects are? And where do you see the overall size of that development pipeline going into next year? Sure I have David here so I'll let him since he's doing all the work explain the pipeline.
But as I mentioned I think I've mentioned in previous calls we're trying to get up to a $300 million to $400 million pipeline run rate which I'm very proud of the team for getting that achieved this quarter.
It will fluctuate quarter-by-quarter as there's deliveries and inflows.
But pretty well got the development team staffed up now and they're starting to hit the stride.
In terms of where we're developing I'll have David kind of run through that with you.
Thank you Ron.
Today we've got about -- we have developments going in 13 different states: California Texas Florida North Carolina Arizona Maryland lead the list of locations where we're developing today.
So it's really where the best opportunities to fit new development inside our existing portfolio.
Research Division</strong> David your modeling what for stabilize yields on those projects based on current market rate? As high as we can get them.
Research Division</strong> That's not overly helpful.
Any numbers? Ross I'd say you have to think about 200 to 300 basis points over acquisitions.
And with that that's your -- the third question so I need you to get back in the queue.
Your next question comes from Vikram Malhotra of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to just understand how you thought about occupancy during this past quarter.
Maybe a year ago 1.5 year ago we probably wouldn't have expected you to kind of hit 94-plus.
So I'm just kind of wondering how you thought about maybe taking the occupancy to maybe even 96? And how you kind of thought about pricing? And just looking forward as you said you're trying to narrow the gap so how did you kind of think of it in terms of taking it up even further? Well I would say this we're not about -- I mean although maybe everybody thinks we're about occupancy.
We're not about occupancy.
We're really about revenue growth of long haul.
And so to get that growth that we're targeting we pulled in different levers whether it be occupancy promotion pricing and what have you.
So it's for us it's not solely about occupancy.
It is important don't get me wrong.
But in the third quarter we allowed the occupancy to tighten up with the spread to narrow vis-à-vis last year by being more aggressive on pricing and giving away less promotions.
As we move into the next couple of quarters we're going to try now to expand the occupancy.
So we [indiscernible] between which lever to pull and which lever we think is going to be optimal to get us our revenue growth as we move forward.
So it's not one component solely.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just -- there was another? I would add to that John said what our long-term goal is it's optimizing the revenue per foot.
But at the end of the day it's really cash flow per foot that we own.
So expenses and CapEx go along with the revenue side of the equation.
And so if you're trying to maximize your cash flow per foot of real estate that you own you want an ideal situation 100% of the building occupied right? Because you want every square foot you own paying rent.
Research Division</strong> No that's a fair point.
And then just one quick clarification on the expense side.
I know you said you started maybe spending a bit more to kind of help manage the dip in the occupancy.
But it seems like this is a pretty solid quarter in terms of expense management and on the payroll side in advertising and I would've assumed maybe some of that has kind of run its course.
But it just appears that maybe you could see a few more quarters of nice control there.
How are you thinking about expenses? I think on the expense side the big dip for the quarter was advertising which was down almost $1 million year-over-year.
Utilities moderated a bit.
And then on-site payroll is down 2% and that's been trending down as we've done some things to improve the efficiency out of the properties.
That's all on our variance productivity variance not a rate variance.
Research Division</strong> So you'd say more so that is -- you've realized most of that or is there still more to come? Expense control and improvement in productivity is an ongoing thing here so it's never done.
And we have initiatives going in all areas to moderate expenses.
So it's not a onetime thing or we just did one thing and that's the end of it.
We're constantly doing things.
As I've touched on before though on the long run despite our productivity and scale and all that I mean you should think about expense growth here for the long-term at 2% to 3% especially given the waiving of property taxes being our largest expense and the fact that while we're aggressively appealing them and all sorts of things we have -- we don't have as much control over property taxes as we do some other expense items.
What John touched on in terms of advertising and selling is that in the fourth quarter of last year basically had none.
And this year we'll probably have $2 million to $3 million in Q4 for advertising.
So you'll see the expense growth pick up in Q4 but the big variable on our expenses is always I should say advertising and snow.
Snow is the other big variable that we have year-over-year.
The next question comes from Ryan Burke of Green Street Advisors.
Ron your average construction cost on a current development pipeline is $115 per square foot.
Can you talk about that mark relative to where stabilized assets or trading on a per square foot basis on those markets? Yes it's a little hard to give you an exact number.
I mean if you take our development pipeline in Texas there's 11 properties our blended cost per foot is $91.
Austin we're probably developing there in the low -- $105 $110 max maybe $100.
And we're seeing assets trade in that market North of $200.
We've got some stuff here in California that we're developing at $124-foot California usually trades north of $200 a foot.
Arizona we're developing at $80.
We're seeing stuff trade there at $150.
And then New York that's really a redevelopment at $175 a foot and those traded $300 a foot plus.
So I'd say somewhere between if I had to make a guess but it varies by market 150% to 200% of replacement cost in some cases.
Okay.
And how does that gap compared to past development cycles I couldn't tell you.
Okay.
One more question.
Is there a point where cap rates on your stabilized properties get so low that you start considering selling more assets obviously with an eye towards recycling capital back into opportunities that are still right for value creation? Well that's a logical question and something we think about.
When you step back and look at Public Storage we have a lot of firepower in terms of ability to acquire and/or develop assets.
Our balance sheet is pretty under levered.
So sitting back and thinking about selling assets once you start to think about how under levered the balance sheet is it kind of moves off of the priority list.
Your next question comes from Michael Bilerman of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Ron you talked about 200 to 300 basis point spread on the developments over acquisitions and I remember your comment from I think it was last year it was 0 to an 8 cap.
So that 200 to 300 is off the 0 or it's off the 8? Come on Michael.
Research Division</strong> I'm just curious you had an average what would be the average yield? I think developments are somewhere between 8% and 11%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You haven't been in the capital raising market from a preferred perspective in a bit.
You have I think 250 270 actually being able to be redeemed next year I think at 145 in April at [indiscernible] and 125 and 6.5 in October.
I'm just curious as you think about potentially with the ramping development pipeline and ramping acquisitions would you look to seek to do that at along? To do what Michael? To redeem those...
Research Division</strong> And also [indiscernible] and sort of where you think that capital cost would be today? Well I think a new preferred for Public Storage is probably about 6 to 6.8 somewhere in that neighborhood for Public Storage.
Certainly not where we would like it to be.
But we have other capital sources a variety of sources.
We talked about potentially issuing some debt in the past.
We may go out in the fourth quarter first quarter and raised some capital in anticipation of calling those preferreds and in anticipation of the ramp-up for the development expense.
So I would expect that something within the next probably 4 to 5 months we would be out in the capital markets trying to do something.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess your comment is given where the preferred pricing is you'd prefer to go out and do that as debt rather than issuing preferred ? Yes I'm just saying that there's other possibilities.
We could do preferred.
That certainly are normal mode of operations but we can do debt.
As Ron mentioned our balance sheet is very very delevered.
We currently only have about $71 million of debt on our books.
And that's dropping down as we move into the end of the fourth quarter.
So we may tap into some of the debt markets if possible.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then just last question just as we think about when the $342 million of the current development pipeline it looks like most of the spend will occur by the end of next year.
When should we start thinking about deliveries of that capital being spent from an income recognition standpoint so should we think about I don't know if there's going to be some stuff hitting next year and obviously it will take time to stabilize how should we think about that aspect? Michael I think you ought to think about 300 000 to 400 000 feet a quarter coming online.
Let's see we've got in Q4 we've got 8 properties 450 000 square feet.
Q1 '15 8 properties 300 000; Q2 5 properties 500 000.
That give you a sense is that what you were looking for like dollars? It's about $35 million $40 million per quarter of developments coming online.
Keep in mind though on developments in our business it takes 2 to 3 years to hit stabilization normally.
So they're generally going to lose money overall or breakeven if we're lucky in the first year.
[Operator Instructions].
You're next question comes from Todd Thomas of KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> Ron just curious to get your broader thoughts on new supply.
All 4 public company pipelines are increasing and the regional developers are looking to get involved to the extent that they can.
What's your outlook here on new supply overall? Same as it has been it's coming.
We're ramped up.
As I said we're north of $300 million.
And listening to some of the comments of the other CEOs in terms of what they're doing on CEVO deals and how they're thinking about buying CEVO properties and all that.
I'm sure the developers are very excited to be building.
And that will in my mind accelerate new supply.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then John you mentioned that discounting is up in October.
Is that up from September or is that up year-over-year? And last year I'm curious in the fourth quarter when did you begin to really start to increase discounts at what point in the year? Well my commentary about it being up it's year-over-year October this year compared to October of last year.
In terms of fourth quarter of last year we discount like throughout the period.
There's no kind of ramping up last year really.
So last year we gave away discounts of about $19 million in the fourth quarter.
I would expect that discounts will probably be a little bit above that.
Right now as I mentioned we're up about 5% that's month-to-date October.
And depending on how the move-in volumes pick up as well as occupancy spread ticks up we'll throttle it back or increase it more depending on how the volume picks up.
Next question comes from George Hoglund of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could comment on some of the recent trends in the Shurgard portfolio and just sort of color on what you're expecting over the next 6 months or so? Well the -- we started a pricing strategy in Europe a really novel.
Cut rates dramatically and won't behold more people move in.
So we started getting really aggressive in the Q4 last year in Europe and we've continued that into this year.
And you're seeing the results with move-in rates realized rents down I see for the quarter about 3.7% but a 7% uptick in occupancy very strong move-in volumes which is overall leading to positive revenue per available foot.
And we hit 90% at the end of Q3 which we haven't been at for several years.
We've positive revenue growth in all markets even Holland which has been our Achilles' heel over the last couple of years up 1.7% in the quarter.
And my expectation is that you will see that revenue growth accelerate into 2015 as we achieve stabilized higher occupancy and are able to moderate the price concessions and discounting.
Also we call up I think 2011 I believe it was 2011 the VAT in London and we basically absorbed that which is a 20% rent reduction on all existing tenants.
And As those customers have rolled out we've got a nice uplift in the U.K.
Our same-store revenue growth in the U.K.
for the quarter was up 5.8%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one -- another question.
Actually going back to capital raising issues.
In terms of debt that you guys you would potentially do would you consider doing a traditional bond deal or is this potentially just another term loan? I'll let John elaborate but in Q3 we did the -- the Shurgard team actually did a EUR 300 million bond offering.
And so while it doesn't show up on our balance sheet effectively 49% of that was ours.
And the proceeds were used to repay the intercompany loan.
So you could look at that as kind of a debt financing.
So we have a variety of sources to think about in terms of where we get capital.
John? Yes I don't really have much to add George.
I mean again we could issue preferred still on the table.
I don't want to suggest that that's off the table.
But just want to make sure that folks understand that issuing debt is not off the table.
It's something that we have considered and are still considering the possibility of issuing debt to be at either the public markets private markets or what have you.
So we're keeping our options open.
We're not at that point where we need to do anything at this point in time.
We have plenty of capital with cash on hand our retained cash flow as well as our line of credit at this point in time.
So we're not pressed to do anything at the moment.
Your next question comes from Michael Mueller of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> On the fourth quarter acquisitions just wondering do you have a blended occupancy number for them and the ones on the contract too I mean what's the rough number? Yes Mike I think most of these are probably about 85% on a blended basis I guess.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is that about what the Q3 wins were as well or is that lower? I don't have those numbers here.
It's usually probably 5 to 8 points of occupancy growth and most of the stuff we're buying but it varies by portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then given that today's the 31st I'm sure you probably don't have the October 31 occupancies.
But do you have a more recent mark like you typically provide when the call is -- the following week? Yes I mean we're up on occupancy year-over-year.
As John touched on our move-ins are up.
Net any move-ins versus move-outs were up 151% which sounds like wow that's incredible.
We had 3 000 -- 3 300 net positive this month versus 1 300 last year but the 31st is a big move-out day.
So I wouldn't read too much into that number.
I mean those are the numbers but it'll change by the end of today.
Your next question comes from Ki Bin Kim of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> John I know you guys have a more conservative same-store NOI accounting policies than some of your peers.
But I was curious do you guys have the number if you included some of the acquisitions you've made and not waited 3 years for the inclusion of some cases what your same-store NOI growth would've looked like? No I don't.
We just don't think about it that way.
That's not how we look at our same-stores.
So no I don't have that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I mean obviously for more comparative purposes than...
Yes I'll tell you this Ki Bin by Monday we will have filed our 10-Q and we do breakout each of the vantage years of the acquisitions and you can easily just add those to our same stores and compute what the number is.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
This quarter it seems interesting that a lot -- you guys included a lot of self-storage peers have decided to on a year-over-year basis maybe increase promotions or decrease rate a little bit earlier than you typically do even though it is seasonal.
Just curious what collectively the self-storage company I guess for yourselves are seeing out there that is causing you to maybe be a little bit more competitive on pricing heading into the winter? Well I can't speak on behalf of the other folks.
I expressed kind of what our strategy is and we're trying to take up some momentum on our occupancy spread.
We're trying to gain to level out the seasonal trends in our occupancy.
And view the fourth quarter and first quarter as areas where we can pick up some occupancy spread.
So that's our game plan.
And as a result of that as I mentioned we're spending more on television a little more on Internet advertising and we're being a little more conservative on pricing and promotions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you think that might create a little bit of risk in 4Q from the optical standpoint on same-store NOI? Well again that's why I'm telling you about it.
Because I think at the end of the day our fourth quarter NOI is going to be negatively affected by it but it certainly I think will set up a decent or better-than-expected Q1.
Ki I would just add something on the same-store.
We started doing that 20-plus years ago and the purpose of the same-store reporting which is by the way the same way we report to our directors is to give people investors our shareholders a picture of kind of the core underlying growth rate of the business.
And what are the fundamental trends so that people like you can figure out okay is the business growing slowing down what are the fundamental trends.
And so unfortunately to become a bit of a gamesmanship in terms of what's gets included in same-store and what doesn't.
But that is the purpose and that's why John doesn't know what it is if you include recent acquisitions because that's not the purpose of reporting the number from our standpoint.
Your next question is a follow-up from Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Ron are you seeing anything in the business today from a competitive standpoint from pricing standpoint that would lead you to believe that your same-store revenue growth can breakout higher from the call it 5% to 5.5-ish percent range you guys have been in the last year or 2? I'll let John elaborate on that.
But one of the things Ross that might give you a picture in terms of why that's a pretty darn good number.
The Q as John said that will be coming out on Monday is the 5% 5.5% is a blend of a whole bunch of markets 2 000 properties.
So at any one time somewhere of 8% 9% I think Denver was up 9% Q3 and then you have markets like D.C.
which were up maybe 1% in Q3.
So depending on your portfolio weighting you kind of get a mix that averages out to the 5.5%.
In Northern California the Pacific Northwest is really strong right now LA is doing well.
D.C.
soft Philly is picking up but it's relatively soft.
New York is coming off the hurricane over a couple of years ago it's a 2% or 3% but having 5% 6% a couple years ago.
And I'd add that Florida has lagged the rest of our portfolio.
And one of the primary reasons for that is we added a lot of new product into Florida that were busy we're trying to fill up and we are filling it up.
And so I think that Florida will show more strength.
But let me kind of add a little bit more to what Ron is talking about.
So for the West Coast properties revenue growth for the quarter was 6.4% and Texas market or the Texas properties were on average 6.7%.
In the Southeast we're at -- excluding Florida we're at 6.4%.
So we have a lot of markets that are really doing really well.
The Northeast is -- we've taken a bit of a hit on average it's about 2.9%.
So that's the drag on our portfolio right now.
And some of that is constant as Ron said with respect to hurricane or super storm Sandy that has now we're comping against that and it hurt New York and we've struggled in Washington D.C.
So can it get higher? It depends on your market mix and we're pretty diversified so when one market is up there's probably a market that's down.
But on an overall net-net I think 5% to 5.5% as you mentioned we've consistently done that for probably the last 3 years now.
Research Division</strong> And that sort of leads me to the follow-up which is that's been in an environment lately that's had I don't want to say 0 supply but virtually 0 supply and that's changing and feels like it's going to be changing fairly rapidly given the spread between development yields and where market cap rates are.
So if we look out a year from now 1.5 years from now is it unreasonable for the market -- is it unreasonable for investors to say hey what if the economy stays constant supply is picking up the self-storage industry is going to have a heck of a problem maintaining 5-ish percent same-store revenue growth? Ross it's -- with the qualification of the portfolio where it's diversified a number of markets are relatively straightforward to build in and a number of markets are very challenging to build in.
If you take Los Angeles or San Francisco the Bay Area or Seattle very challenging markets to build in.
Not a lot of new supply.
We're struggling to find product to build in those marketplaces.
And yet in those markets especially in the urban areas you have tremendous densification of population with the apartment construction.
We were up in Seattle last week and I was amazed at all the apartment construction going on up there.
And we have a lot of properties in the Seattle market and they're going to benefit tremendously from that influx of people.
You take a market like Dallas Texas right it's not hard to build in.
It's our highest volume market.
And my guess that's a market that will probably get oversupplied faster and more than other markets around the country.
Florida is usual market.
It tends to get oversupplied.
But if you're in Miami and West Palm Beach area also very difficult to find land and very difficult to build in.
And we have a big presence there.
So that market will do better than average.
So kind of depends on where your portfolio is and which market.
Your next question comes from Paula Poskon of DA Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on new supply.
Are you seeing any increase in adaptive reuse and in-store locations? Redevelopment Paula? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
Our derived properties are big redevelopment.
We just took down a property industrial building in Irvine that we're going to redevelop into industrial.
So yes we could take existing other kind of building usage and reconfigure them to self-storage.
Research Division</strong> But are you seeing non-self-storage builders doing that I guess? Non-self-storage builders.
I don't have any anecdotal evidence.
It's not something I monitor.
So I really can't answer yet on that.
And this time there are no further question.
I Would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Clem Teng for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you for your attendance today's conference call and we'll speak to you next quarter.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Good afternoon.
My name is Andrea and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Public Storage Q4 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Clem Teng.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us for our fourth quarter earnings call.
Here with me today are Ron Havner and John Reyes.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this conference call are forward-looking statements subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.
These risks and other factors that could adversely affect our business and future results are described in today's earnings press release and in our reports filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of today February 20 2015 and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A reconciliation to GAAP of the non-GAAP financial measures we are providing on this call is included in our earnings press release.
You can find our press release SEC reports and audio webcast replay of this conference call on our website at www.publicstorage.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Clem.
We had a pretty good quarter Q4 and year in 2014.
I want to commend the operations field support [indiscernible] the Real Estate Groups for doing such a superb job last year and really positioning us well for a solid 2015.
And with that operator let's open up for questions.
Certainly.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS Hey good morning guys.
I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about how rent and discounting trended in Q4 on a year-over-year basis and how that translated into January? Yeah this is John.
From a discounting standpoint we increased our discounting during the fourth quarter which was consistent with what we talked about in the third quarter conference call.
We wanted to ramp up the occupancy spread and we were going to discount more as well as spend more on television advertising which we did and we were able to accomplish our goal of increasing our occupancy.
In terms of street rates and move-in rates they were both higher in the fourth quarter relative to fourth quarter of last year.
On the moving rate which is more important to the street rate moving were coming in at about 4% higher and we got about 4% more move-ins also.
So it was a great quarter.
We accomplished what we wanted to accomplish so we're pretty happy with that.
And have those trends held into January pretty well? Into January we did a little bit more television and move-in volumes kind of flattened out a little bit but we were increasing street rates more and so we pretty much broke even on the move-ins but they were moving in at rates that were higher than the 4% I would say.
Okay and the second question from me on the Shurgard acquisition the vintage [ph] market is about $250 a foot there which seems pretty rich.
Can you just maybe give us a little more color on that since they bought it and if that's market or what was unique about those assets to drive the pricing there? Well I'll say the portfolio is about 69% 70% occupied on a trailing NOI basis the NOI is somewhere between 4% and 5% and you should know European rental rates on average are about double the U.S.
Okay thanks I guess.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Hi good morning.
Could you actually your third quarter 10-Q does give in your fourth quarter not yet but I know in this sector and most real estate sectors that the same-store definition is a little bit different by company.
Yours is always a little more conservative because I know you wait three years for assets to move into your pool.
But going back to the third quarter Q it seems like the poppy [ph] pool from 2013 the things that you bought the NOI differential in 3Q 2014 over 3Q 2013 was about $15 million.
So it has been pretty substantial and your 2012 pool was up only $1.4 million.
Now just hypothetically if you just major definition a little bit more loose and more some of the two other companies that sat there how would your 6.8% same-store NOI growth what would that be would it be close to 8 or more than that or less than that just curious because I'm really trying to look at it from an apples-to-apples basis.
Well Ki I'll touch on that and then I'll let John add.
I don’t know to whether I could call a same-store pool more conservative I would call it more practical because if you and what we're trying to do is give you the investor as well as our directors and is this the way we run the company as well what's an apples-to-apples comparison of the business in terms of our store performance by properties and we're not trying to manage to a number or put in properties that clearly are not stabilized to improve our same-store NOI.
So the number that we published for you and put the 10-K and the 10-Q are the same kind of numbers that we run the business with.
And properties that aren’t stabilized go into a non-stabilized pool and the management teams are measured on those differently than they are in same-store operation.
What the numbers are with non-stabilized properties in them is obviously they'd be higher because the properties aren’t stabilized and so their growth rates are higher.
What it is I don’t know.
John? No I have nothing to add to that.
Okay and just a second question if I look at your New York revenue growth and not just your New York assets but for most of the public peers and with no stores in New York it doesn’t seem like from a same-store revenue standpoint is really growing that much faster than any other market and even the sick bucket you call other markets is pretty close to that or better.
So just curious is the market like New York really based on the pricing is it really going to put up that much better growth and you think just self-storage in most other markets or is it like kind of like 2014 anomaly? Yeah you know if you're referring specifically to New York and we talked about that in the third quarter also where we mentioned that as part of the problem we had was a year-over-year comp because we saw a huge lift from super storm Sandy which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2012 and that carried over in throughout 2013 where occupancies were very high in New York and we were experiencing above the average rental rate growth.
When we got to 2014 then the comps became very difficult and so that's what you're seeing in New York and if you're looking at Q3 and the when we show you Q4 in our 10-K you'll see a similar thing.
But what we are seeing now as the comps now we're kind of rounding the corner again New York is beginning to fare better meaning that the year-over-year growth is going is starting to rise and get back on track to what I would say normal growth would be for it.
Ki if you look across the portfolio in Q4 and you'll see this when the K is out you're going to see an acceleration on the West Coast market.
For example if you take Portland for the year it was up 7.4 but in Q4 was up 8.6 San Diego for the year was up 4.9 but for the fourth quarter up 6.6 Sacramento for the year up 4.7 but Q4 6.6 Los Angeles for the year 5.2 but for the quarter 6.1.
So you've seen a real acceleration in the rate of growth in our West Coast markets and then also in some of the Florida markets Orlando for the year was 4.4 but in Q4 5.6.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jana Galan with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
And on the third quarter call you mentioned looking at other debt financing options you know curious why you decided on the preferred financing in December and how you're thinking about capital needs in 2015? Well the preferred financing in Q4 we thought the 5.80 or 5.87 was a pretty attractive rate.
It wasn’t a big trade but it was and it was a nice trade below 6% coupon.
Regarding the debt financing we're still looking at various options.
Do you have anything to add on that John? No I think right now we're not under pressure to do anything even though our development pipeline is ramping up as we've noted in the press release but for the most part the ramp up in development can be funded with our retained cash flow.
So the big question mark for us is the acquisition environment and how that plays out for the rest of the year.
Currently we're sitting on about $150 million to $180 million of cash.
Most of that is from that preferred that we issued in December.
But as Ron said we are looking at potentially issuing that but that's not something that we feel under pressure to be doing any time soon.
Thank you and then just a quick question on advertising if you can kind of comment on paid search trends where you think the pricing will increase in '15 and maybe with the decision to continue doing TV advertising? Yes we did.
As I mentioned we did television in Q4.
We did some in January.
We continue to evaluate the effectiveness of television advertising.
My gut is that we will probably do similar amounts as we did in 2014 but that kind of remains to be seen.
Our occupancies are so high right now; it gets more and more difficult to justify spending television advertising dollars.
With respect to other advertising we continue to spend money on either search terms with both Google and Yahoo and I expect that to continue probably at the same paces we've experienced in 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Smedes Rose with Citi.
Thanks.
I wanted to ask you just about the payroll and I know you've talked earlier in the year about reducing hours and it did decline again in the fourth quarter and of course for the year just are you seeing any pressure at that segment of the labor market and any thoughts on where pricing might go in 2015? Well I think Smedes we've done some things to improve labor productivity in the course of 2014 and I would anticipate probably a little more normalized rate of increase in wages between 1% and 2% in 2015 year-over-year.
And I say that not knowing the impact that Wal-Mart's decision to increase their wage rates is going to have in terms of our ability to recruit people.
So that was just announced and I don’t know what impact that's going to have because we usually we're kind of in that labor market wage rate so for our people that we hire is relief managers.
So hard to anticipate the impact of that right now.
Okay that's helpful and then on the Shurgard expenses was that it looked like they went up a lot in the fourth quarter is that just transaction oriented and related without sort of stabilized going forward? Are you talking about the same-store operating expenses that were up quite a bit? Yes? Yeah that was we had some credits in the fourth quarter of last year that we didn't have in the fourth quarter of this year and then they accelerated some R&amp;M and yeah the credits were mainly related to property taxes.
So they look higher but I think if you look at the full year they are pretty good expense control for the full year.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with Keybanc.
Hi thanks good morning.
Just following up on the Shurgard Europe acquisition I was wondering Ron maybe can you frame up what the investment opportunity set for Shurgard Europe looks like you know what the pipeline looks like and maybe what the current thinking is towards investments there? Yeah Todd as you probably know 2014 the investments we made combined around $90 million $95 million are the first investments we made in quite some time in Shurgard.
We've really been focusing on taking the cash flow and deleveraging the entity with a completion of the private placement in June of last year refinancing the debt Shurgard has a fair amount of free cash flow and so they've been ramping up their opportunity set in terms of acquisitions and development.
And so at year end I think we have three or four properties in the pipeline to develop in London and then we did this acquisition in Germany.
And I would anticipate that you'll see more activity out of Shurgard in 2015.
We generally don't comment on transactions and they've got some stuff in the hopper so I don’t want to really get into what the details are but I would anticipate that Shurgard will be active again in 2015.
Okay and then second on the developments domestic developments you're starting to deliver that product in the market now and I was wondering if you could just give us an update any thoughts on sort of lease up timeframes here.
I know historically I believe it would take anywhere from maybe three or four years or so to lease up and stabilize and the development I know your large Bronx facility leased up much quicker than that.
I'm just curious what you think the average time is to get these projects delivered over the next 12 months the stabilization might look like? Yes.
Our underwriting of to achieve stabilization has not changed.
It's generally somewhere between three and four years depending on the property size and that achievement of stabilization and part of our underwriting is we impute a cost to carry until we do achieve stabilized NOI.
So far we've been fortunate.
I believe most if not all of our developments are ahead of schedule in terms of pro forma occupancies and cash flow.
They are not ahead of schedule in terms of achieving targeted rents and that's by design in terms of we use a different pricing strategy for developments than we do for stabilized properties.
The Bronx the Gerard property is actually about 92% occupied today which if you would ask me 18 months ago when it opened if it would be at 92% occupied and 18 months with 4000 units I would have laughed.
So the pricing group the marketing groups have done a great job in operations in getting that property filled up and that's kind of the way it's working across the platform.
So hopefully we'll be delivering pleasant surprises with respect to our developments but our underwriting hasn’t changed.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of George Hoglund with Jefferies.
Hi guys just want to see if I can get the occupancy for the end of January? Yeah George it's about occupancy is about 93% versus 92% 93% last year.
Okay.
Okay got you.
And then also just wondering if you can comment on the potential FX impacts from a Shurgard portfolio and sort of how you're addressing that for 2015? With respect to the foreign currency exchange? Yes? Well there's not a lot we can do about the dollar strengthening against the euro that’s we're really trying to it is certainly going to have a negative effect on Public Storage given that I think for all of 2014 I think the average exchange ratio was somewhere about 1.32 where as the euro I think that exchange rate today is somewhere down about 1.54.
So it's about a 13% 15% decline there.
Meaning all things being equal the income we pick up from Shurgard Europe will go down.
Keep in mind however that Shurgard Europe represents about 5% of our FFO or so.
So it's not a significant impact on the overall Public Storage earnings potential.
We were fortunate that our intercompany loan we financed just about a month before the precipitous decline in the euro because that would have been a real hit.
Okay and then can you also comment on rental rates in Europe given you're still seeing year-over-year declines in the Shurgard portfolio? You mean what is the outlook for rental rates in Europe? Yes? Yeah you know in Europe we've gotten really aggressive on pricing to drive occupancy and we've been able to do that.
I think we're up 500 600 basis point year-over-year in occupancy but the net effect of both of those is that we've still been able to deliver positive revenue for available foot growth.
So while the rates have gone down the volume has increased greater so revenue growth is positive.
I would expect that to continue in 2015 because our average for year 2014 was about 86% and Mark and the team over there are targeting to get their portfolio up to 90% to 91%.
So I think you'll see probably continued in place rent movement down offset by higher volume and I think we'll see some pretty good top line revenue growth net net out of Shurgard in 2015.
Okay thanks very helpful.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JP Morgan.
You talked about Europe being more active seemingly on the acquisition side.
You know looking at the press release you talked about a new €40 million credit facility.
Was that meant to be a one-off facility for the acquisitions or is that something that can be expanded you know fund anything that's on your plate going forward? The €40 million is a revolver Mike and so it has a term of about three and half years.
So yes they're putting it in place to help fund the acquisition but to the extent they do pay it down between now and the facility expires they can redraw on the line on that revolver.
Okay thanks.
Okay that was it thanks.
Yeah Mike your question might lead to what is the financing capacity of Shurgard and under their loan the private placement that they did in June I think they have borrowing capacity of another €100 million €150 million.
Got it.
Okay that was helpful thanks.
Bye.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Salinksy with RBC Capital Markets.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Just given the higher occupancy kind of going into the year this year as well as it sounds like keeping the advertising cost the same just kind of talk about where you see the greatest opportunities on the releasing front in 2015 whether maybe you plan to push rate a bit more just given the high occupancy how much concessions are left to reduce can you just kind of talk about that a little bit? Mike I'll start and I'll let John add to this.
You know if you look at Q4 we were able to do what I think are two really incredible things.
We were able to move period in occupancy up 0.8% which is a real achievement in the fourth quarter as well as move in-place rents up from 4.6% to 4.9%.
So moving in-place rents as well as the occupancy in Q4 really set us up nicely for January.
And if you go back to what we've been talking about our opportunities on occupancy are really in the fourth quarter and in the first quarter.
So what we did on the promotional discounts and the television in Q4 not only helped our positioning our revenue growth in Q4 which accelerated over Q3 but it's positioned us nicely going into Q1 for higher occupancies and higher in-place rent.
And I would add to that I think that street rates are going to be higher this year.
I think we're seeing competition now pushing street rates more aggressively than they have in the past probably due to the fact that their occupancies are much higher than they have experienced before which overall is a good thing for Public Storage because that's been one of our more difficult places to grow revenue.
So as I mentioned we are seen move-in rates starting to accelerate.
Hopefully that will continue.
I would also think that the level of discounting will subside will come down.
In Q4 we gave away approximately $20 million of discounts.
On an annual basis that's about $80 million.
So there's a lot of room to reduce discounting.
So we'll work on that also.
The third bucket Mike just to add to that is customers greater than a year up-ticked in Q4 as well at 56.7% versus 55.8%.
So we ended the year with about 10 000 plus more customers in that age cohort of greater than a year.
Thanks very helpful and then just is my follow-up question.
You talked about Europe and the acquisition opportunities seen there.
Can you talk a little bit about the U.S.? I mean obviously third quarter fourth quarter activity seemed to pick up there are you seeing more product on the market? And then just given the success that you've had in expanding the development pipeline over the last few months are opportunities becoming more plentiful there? Well Q1 is typically a low product opportunity.
There's not a lot of product coming into the marketing in Q1.
It really starts to pick up in Q2 and Q3.
So there's not a lot of stuff in the market right now in terms of acquisitions.
As we move through 2014 I would tell you pricing continued to get more and more aggressive.
We've moved out into some other markets where we have a strong presence but out of some of the more core competitive markets in terms of acquisitions and I would tell you I mean there's deals getting done well below five cap rates on the acquisition front which is I'd have to say we somewhat saw this coming a couple years ago which is why we've accelerated the development pipeline.
And if you look at our pipeline it's almost double what it was at the end of 2013 and I think you'll see us continue to try to accelerate that form of expansion vis-à-vis acquisitions.
We are very happy with our development pipeline both the growth of it and the quality of the assets.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
A couple of quick follow ups what is the percent of customers receiving a discount in the fourth quarter this year versus last year? Yeah Ki I don’t have that in front of me but I would my gut reaction is probably somewhere about 76 versus I don’t know a little less than that last year.
Okay and I know you guys don’t typically do this but just given where your occupancy rates are and your commentary regarding street rates that might be improving in 2015 jus t ballpark figure what do you think your portfolio can handle or push through in terms of street rates in 2015? I don’t know I wouldn’t want to guess.
Okay thank you.
I know it will be wrong.
All right.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Bragg with Green Street Advisors.
Dave your line is open.
Yes thank you good morning.
Can you hear me? Yeah Dave how are you? Great.
Most of my questions have been answered but I want to follow up on your point made on the low acquisition cap rates driving you incrementally into development to what degree are you seeing that across the rest of the market how much new supply do you observe under construction today relative to a year ago? Well it's simple and so it's more and I'd tell you it's more than people realize.
We had a real estate meeting yesterday and I was surprised that the number of markets where we're starting to see development.
So there is a fair mount more activity than people realize.
And it's logical like if you are a developer and you've got these public companies buying the CIVO deals nice bridge to what you can build it for.
Why not build the product? And it is coming to market.
You know and Texas is an easier market to build in and so there is a fair amount of product coming online in Dallas and Houston the Carolinas.
So we're going to see more and more development.
So is it your sense that the construction environment has loosened up considerably for the private developers? Yes.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Hey Ron this is Ross this time in case you didn’t know it wasn’t me before.
I thought your voice had changed.
Thank you.
So if I look at the per square foot cost of your acquisitions that you did last year I think was about $128 a foot.
If I look at the cost of your current development pipeline you're building to about 117 a foot and I know it's not directly apples-to-apples in terms of the geographic mix.
But I guess my question is do you think it is a fair comment to say that you're paying above replacement cost for the acquisitions? That's part A.
Yes.
And if that's true which sounds like it is why not and I know you've accelerated development but why not put even more capital into the development bucket and pulled back on acquisitions? Ross we are trying you know it may relative to our size $400 million may not look like a lot but that's what we reported on is like a pipeline of 29 30 properties behind that or another 25 or so properties that we're working on to get into the development pipeline.
So there is a lot of properties in that mix.
We've ramped up the staff considerably and as we get more and more comfortable in terms of the market people in place the experience I think you will see the development pipeline increase.
The great thing about the development pipeline is obviously we're building the replacement cost we're building brand now product.
We're getting into submarkets where there is little competition and where we have little product.
So we're really able with the development teams to fill in markets and submarkets that we want to be in and really improve our market share and the quality of our portfolio in the various markets.
And just remind me again the stabilized yield that you guys are building to based on current market rents as well? Oh you know it varies by property but I'd say somewhere between 8 and 10.
And just an extension of that prior questions if that's true right and people are paying pretty low cap rates today why aren't we about to see for lack of a better word an explosion in self storage construction in the next 12 to 24 months? Well Ross it's still hard to do but as I just touched on with Dave Bragg there is more development going on and it is accelerating.
If you think back two years ago no one was really talking about development except us and now you go to the self storage conferences and everyone's talking about development and trying to do it.
So I believe you will see an acceleration of development.
We are seeing it and it will continue to accelerate.
And in some markets like Austin there was a portfolio that traded north of 200 bucks a foot and we're developing in Austin at $80 to $90 a foot.
I assume a local guy there can development at $100.
I mean that's a big spread I'd say.
Thank you.
Your final question comes from the line of Paula Poskon with D.A.
Davidson.
Thank you.
I just wanted to follow up a little bit more on the new supply and the amount of development Ron.
Are you seeing that any development in what you would consider to be good infill locations or way back to raising the cornfields at the edge of town? Well we don’t spend a lifetime in the cornfields so I can't tell you about that.
In terms of… Metaphorically speaking… In terms of yes yes now I know.
Where we're seeing the more development in markets where you would expect the southeast where it's easier to build and Texas where it's easier to build.
So it's logical oh and yes Dave Doll is here in New York.
New York we started to see development pick up 18 months ago and a lot of stuff is really coming online in New York.
So those are the major markets.
And we're doing some stuff but we are doing some stuff in California.
We don't see other people doing stuff in California not a lot in Florida to give you some idea.
That's helpful and are you seeing much redevelopment or repurposing? Well we've been doing redevelopment for five or eight years.
In terms of what other people are doing I can't comment.
I mean that's an ongoing part of our program.
So we've been doing it and we will continue to do that.
Okay thanks very much.
Thank you.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will now turn this conference over to management for closing remarks.
Well I thank everybody for participating on our call today and we look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect your lines and have a wonderful day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you and welcome to the Public Storage First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
Aster the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I’ll now turn the call over to Clem Teng Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our first quarter earnings call.
Here with me today are Ron Havner and John Reyes.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this conference call are forward-looking statements subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.
These risks and other factors that could adversely affect our business and future results are described in today's earnings press release and in our reports filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of today May 1 2015 and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A reconciliation to GAAP of the non-GAAP financial measures that we are providing on this call is included in our earnings press release.
You can find our press release SEC reports and audio webcast replay of this conference call on our Web site at www.publicstorage.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ron.
Thank you Clem.
We had another solid quarter.
We continue to execute on all fronts.
In the U.S.
and Europe revenue growth continues to accelerate our development pipeline continues to expand and industry fundamentals are good.
With that operator let's open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Mueller of JPMorgan.
Europe is obviously pretty small this point relative to everything overall can you just an update on pricing occupancy and NOI trends there? Occupancy for the quarter was for all of Europe was 87.9 versus 82.1 last year so up 7.1% rates were backwards 3%.
So REVPAF was up close to 4% 3.8 for the quarter.
So we’re feeling good about Europe.
All markets but one was up in NOI and Holland our most challenging market occupancy was 81.4 versus 70.7 last year so a big 15% increase in occupancy year-over-year.
And I forget is there a follow-up or is it just one question? You can follow-up.
Can you talk a little bit about the G&amp;A increase relative to prior quarters and what’s a good run rate to expect for the balance of 2015? This is John.
So our G&amp;A for the year quarter was about 24 million and that compared to last year at around 19 million.
And the major swing items the increases were basically of three categories; one was a share-based compensation expense which was up about $1 million; the second item was our development overhead that’s been expensed that was up about 0.5 million and then legal cost which is up about 4 million for the quarter.
So on a run rate basis going forward I would expect that our G&amp;A although it's running about 24 million for the quarter don’t think they will run 24 million for each of the next three quarters but it will continue to run higher than last year.
Primarily due to we expect additional increase to legal cost as well as share based compensation and development overhead cost the expense so expect higher G&amp;A going forward.
And what’s the legal cost tied to? Various litigation matter I mean various parts for the company.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Jeremy Matson with Ross.
I was just wondering if you can take a little bit more about traction that you're making on rate growth you obviously see some good acceleration in 1Q it appears to be at some of the highest levels in quite a long time and just how much of an impact lower discount is having and where realized rents were moving were relative to move outs.
Jeremy this is John again.
For the quarter our street rates were up about 6% roughly and our move in rates were up about a little over 5%.
Our volume of move ins were up about 1.3% and so I'm pretty happy that we're able to move street rates and people are accepting those higher rates.
And we're seeing competition also raise their street rates which we really haven't seen a whole lot over the past couple of years.
So I got to believe everybody is fairly full and people are getting more aggressive on rates.
On the discounting side at least for the quarter the number move ins receiving discounts was -- the percentage was about the same as the first quarter of last year.
So roughly about 80% of our move ins were getting discount.
I expected that as we move forward given our occupancies we'll start turning now back and we're starting to do that in the month of April.
Street rates continue to move higher in April.
They're now somewhere in the neighbourhood of about 7% higher and moving rates are also moving higher at this point of time.
So [indiscernible] right now.
Great and then just one for Ron if I can just a little bit bigger picture on the development front more broadly obviously you guys pipeline grew a little bit this quarter but anecdotally we're hearing about pickup from all the new money [indiscernible] stores it's looking for different ways beyond the acquisitions and the looking at more fair deals just kind a giving your footprint where you're see any sort nationally in the development front? Jeremy we start our development program a couple of years ago in part because acquisition pricing was starting to trend above replacement cost and I said it's many cases well above that and so we're already happy we've got a good development program growing at -- despite some meaningful deliveries this quarter we still expended the pipeline.
So worked at 31 projects about 3.6 million square feet.
We're seeing increased development across the U.S.
Is it something to worry about today? No not really.
It's kind of natural given the comments John just said in terms of rates moving up it's natural then that developers will look at those rates by us and others would say okay at those rates I can develop and make a decent return on capital.
We have David Doll here any color you on development? No I think we're pretty happy with the things that we're opening.
In fact we'll open one next Tuesday in Glendale and continue to see other new development in natural markets like Miami Houston Dallas but not so much in Southern California Northern California or some of our other key markets.
Your next question comes from the line George Hoglund of Jeffery.
Yes internally acquisition environment are you seeing any difference in the composition of potential buyers out there and also any difference in the motivation from sellers of anyone feeling more of a rush to get deals done nowadays? Not in terms of -- David Doll again.
Not in terms of new equity players there has been a constant inflow of folks trying to come in to the marketplace.
I don't think that's changed any perception any over the last several quarters but in terms of quality of product coming to the marketplace we don't see high quality products available today and hence it's one of the reasons why we're so happy with our development program it gives us an opportunity to bring better product to the market player to our customers.
And then in terms of development you guys are seeing outside of the projects you guys are doing? [Tough that's] schedule become online in your markets generally who are the developers or the operators of these facilities? Many of the local regional players that have continue to hold their portfolios and have active development programs started.
There are a number of developers that has sold out in the prior 2006 '07 '08 timeframes; they're back in business again trying to start up development programs.
So it's generally people that have [technical difficulty] business over the years.
Keep in mind remember the industry rights got 50 000 facilities to top five operators have less than 10% market shares to the industry's highly fragmented.
And you can extrapolate that into the development programs as well.
It's highly fragmented -- a lot of small one two three property operators doing development programs.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
I was curious where do you think the portfolio can get from an occupancy standpoint is 96% possible in late July along lines are you seeing any changes in move out activity related to existing customer rent increases any changes in behaviour around that? I'll start and Ron can jump in as.
In terms of changes in customer behaviour with rate increases no we haven’t seen any changes there is still a very sticky for the most part we're seeing tenants are being with this longer than year an annual increase and we're not seeing any change in that.
In fact we're seeing that our ageing of our tenant base is actually continues to improve I think we're just about 56.5% 57% of our tenants have been here longer than a year.
So that continues to improve how high can occupancies get I don't know I made and I think two years ago saying that that can get higher than 94 and were higher than 94.
So can I get to 96 we have properties that are at 96 we have properties that are probably higher than 96.
So there are certain properties and maybe even markets that can get to those levels but I don’t think our entire portfolio can get there.
Just to add during April we had three markets where the market as a whole was 97% or better occupied during the month of April.
I would agree with John to get 2000 properties at 97% is probably not going to happen.
Okay that’s helpful.
And if I could just follow up with regard to litigation matters can you just shed some light on what that pertains to seems like sort of a big number? Is that something that you foresee continuing throughout the balance of the year? Whatever we could talk about will be in the 10-Q.
So that’s what you should read kind of clarity on the litigation.
[Operator Instructions].
Your next question comes from line of Smedes Rose of Citi.
I wanted to ask you as you look back on some of the properties that you've acquired are you reaching stabilization maybe faster than you would have expected given how strong fundamentals are in the business.
And as you look forward have you changed your expectations around how long it would take to reach stabilization as you lease up new assets.
Generally what we do on properties that aren’t what we consider stabilized 90% plus occupancy is we'll tend to be a little aggressive actually a lot aggressive on rate to fill them up.
And as they fill up and stabilize then we'll start to push the street rate and the in place rent customers.
Are we filling up faster than we anticipated yes you take the Gerard property which opens in May or June of 13 4 000 units and ended April at 93.9%.
I think we forecast that property taking four years to fill up and it's basically filled up in less than two.
So much faster than we anticipated however it is filled up at lower rates than we anticipated it.
But we think we'll make that up and so net to net we'll be ahead of the game and we're seeing that in both our developments and acquisitions.
The table that is in the press release if you look at the 2013 acquisitions kind of give you an indication of what we're doing last year there were at 863 then in Q1 at 928 so up 7.5% and then you see the contract rents moving from $13.25 to $14 are up 5.7%.
So you should expect in that portfolio that maybe occupancy comes up a little bit in terms of stabilization but at the rates will continue to move up at above average levels for probably the next couple of years because we filled then up at bit below market rates.
And then I just wanted to ask you announced redemption of some preferred in the quarter.
Are you still leaning towards issuing that at some point as well for your financing needs and as much as you have any but or perhaps your thoughts around that changed at all.
No we're still looking at potential issuance of debt on time in 2015.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
So [hawing] up on the last question if you did pursue that where is you mind set because obviously you expand your line of credit.
Is it more shorter term duration or are you looking more at the 30 year type of range.
What we did expand our line of credit so most likely what we'll do is we'll get in deep into our line of credit before we start thinking about longer tenure debt.
We could do anything from 7 10 12 15 with 30.
I think we can look at the whole spectrum and tranche up [that we see a] best fit for public storage.
We have invented that point to have to make a decision yet but I think we have a lot of options open for us.
And maybe just turn to your same-store expenses you’ve done a very good job of keeping it very flat and we were mostly other expect a lot of expense increases just curious besides the payroll part of it which we talked last quarter but how are you keeping in flat for a while and notice that your allocator overhead was favorable to the expense number by a 1 million or so? If you could talk about that and how long can this be or does it -- you have to return like an inflationary rate? Well the answer to the second part of your question will it return long-term to an inflationary rate yes we consistently say that.
Having said that as we’ve also consistently said we’re always working away to take cost out of our system to get more efficient more productive in all aspects of our business.
If you look at Q1 big increase item was snow removal; we were up $1 million over last year.
I can’t believe we're up a $1 million over last year’s where we were.
Utilities are down gas prices are down oil prices are down and so I think -- and we’ve renegotiated some new utility contracts.
So I think that number could remain flat to slightly down.
Advertising and selling were 95% occupy there is a not a lot of need for that.
I think when we get to Q2 we didn’t did do advertising in Q2 last year so you won’t see advertising this year.
So that line will probably be flat and whether we do advertising the balance of this year is yet to be determined.
Other direct property tax cost were up 3.6 and then allocated overhead was down mainly because we used to have our annual sales conference in the first quarter and we moved it into the third and fourth quarters of last year and so last year was a double up and this year we have the expense savings in Q1.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Stender of Wells Fargo.
For the acquisitions already completed this year the annual contract rent is 11.65 and just lower than some of the previous years.
Is there anything we can read into that number is it a reflection in the markets you're entering or any [see about] deals included in that? It's a function -- it really varies by market.
You’ve got some of the properties are down in Texas and I think we got under contract in East Palo Alto it probably has a in place rent of double what is down in Houston.
So just depends on which markets for the properties are in that quarter's acquisitions.
We’re not sitting here targeting we want to buy properties at $13 or $14 of in place rents.
It's really a function of do we want that property? Yes and therefore the rent -- the rent makes sense and so we’ll buy it.
Maybe the sample size is small item looking at.
And then just second can you provide any color in the land lease buyout that you had in Q1? It was a remnant transaction from the Shurgard merger in ’06 and we had an option to acquire the land lease this year and so with a pretty terming formula and we exercised our option and closed on the transaction.
But pretty good transaction for us only 15 million but it's pretty good transaction.
At this time there are no further questions.
I’ll now return the call to management for any additional or closing remarks.
We appreciate everybody’s interest in Public Storage in our first quarter…wait there is one more call there.
You do have a question from Dave Bragg of Green Street Advisors.
Just bigger picture question on supply for you there is a lot of concern over this new supply; it's emerging but in light of your strong operating results.
The question is how much new supply does the industry need? It seems the supply is needed and when you take a step back Ron and you look at eight square feet per capita does that seem like the right level going forward? Dave I think I said that before and if you kind of take the U.S.
population seven square feet eight square feet per capita normal population growth of 1% a year or you're going to take 50 000 facilities and 1% a year that’s 400 to 500 facilities per year and that kind of keeps everything at seven feet or eight feet per capita.
I will tell you as you go across the country markets very greatly between two square feet and three square feet per capita and 12 square feet and 15 square feet per capita and obviously the ones that have the higher square footage tend to have lower rate growth rate.
If you ask me where development will happen fastest.
New York has been working on development programs for a while so I think we’ll see big uptick meaningful uptake in supply in the New York area.
And then across the country vary between infield markets and then outline markets where it's easier to get zoning permitting and land is cheaper.
But 400 to 500 properties a year kind keeps things static and we haven’t had much developments since '09.
So we kind of four five years behind in terms of the curve of new supply relative to organic population growth.
So the industries saw a significant sector shift in terms of growth of square feet per capital of may be three 20 years ago to eight today.
Seems like your thought is that we grow in line with growth in line with population growth would make sense that -- not the result the demand that we're seeing don’t necessarily indicated that we need nine or 10 square feet per capital.
I guess my point mentioning the nine or 10 like I know Austin has got over 11 square feet per capita and Austin is a pretty good market for us.
So is the max 7? I don’t think so it varies my market and could the country wide in the U.S could we go to a 10 or 11 square foot per capita? I don’t think that’s unreasonable given the trend to a movement to apartments smaller homes especially in markets like Manhattan and San Francisco and even parts of LA.
It’s not impossible to get to a 10 or 11 per square foot is that going to happen I can't say.
One quick housekeeping one you've referenced us to the 10-Q is that coming out today.
Probably next week David.
Your next question is a follow up from Smedes Rose of Citi.
It's Michael Bilerman here.
Ron I may miss your opening comments because I dialed in late.
Did you commented in terms of how you are going replace the COO role I know Shaun left in March to be I think see some private educational company.
Can you just a little a bit about what those plans are.
Well those plans have already been put in place.
We have divided up the country and given responsibility to three outstanding executives that are been with public storage 15 plus years.
And those three exceptional executive are now running operations By committee.
With the team.
The three report effectively and I ask it more -- I think the CEO role has had some turnover over the last five or six I think Shaun made third in that seat.
So I didn’t know if there was something structurally that wasn’t working just talk about what those inhibitors just reasons why each of them left.
There are different reasons why each of them left but you can describe it to my inability to hire a COO.
So I'm just leaving it at that but the guys we have running the operations are long time public storage execs that have grown up here in the operations and -- well you can tell by the results they're doing an exceptional job.
And then what was the change in Chief Legal Officer during the year was that a retirement or what transpired there? Yes Steve retired and actually I don’t know what Steve is doing.
But he is retired and we brought on [indiscernible].
At this time there are no further questions I'll now turn the call to Clemente Teng for additional or closing remarks.
Thank you again for your interest in Public Storage and we'll speak to you next quarter.
Thank you for participating in the Public Storage first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the Public Storage Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for your questions following the presentation.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Clem Teng Vice President of Investor Relations.
Good morning.
And thank you for joining us for our second quarter earnings call.
Here with me today are Ron Havner and John Reyes.
Just want to remind you that all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this conference call are forward-looking statements subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.
These risks and other factors that could adversely affect our business and future results are described in today's earnings press release and in our reports filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of today July 30 2015 and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A reconciliation to GAAP of the non-GAAP financial measures we are providing on this call is included in our earnings press release.
You can find our press release SEC reports and audio webcast replay of this conference call on our website at www.publicstorage.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ron.
Thank you Clem.
We had another solid quarter hitting on all cylinders in Europe and in the U.S.
and our development pipeline in tenant reinsurance.
So with that let's open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Smedes Rose of Citigroup.
Hi.
Thanks.
I wanted to ask you about your -- about Shurgard there obviously made some fairly large acquisition in the quarter and things seem to be going very well there.
Haven’t met with your team over there quite recently? How do you think about your ownership there going forward either in the public vehicle or in a private vehicle or kind of -- or do you just like the status quo? Well right now Smedes our Shurgard Europe is relatively or modest leveraged.
They just did another €300 million financing so they have €600 million of term debt average duration of about nine years sub 3% and they will be internally generating about €82 million to €90 million of cash flow with really no requirements other than for growth.
So in terms of doing an IPO at this juncture not sure what we would use the proceeds on since they funded all their acquisitions and they're sitting on €70 million €80 million of cash at this juncture.
Longer term going forward that will depend on market conditions growth opportunity those kinds of things.
Okay.
Could I just ask you too we keep saying a lot of media storage pop up about potential changes to proposition 13 particularly related to commercial property versus residential? Do you -- just being out there and maybe being more [indiscernible] in some of us sorry do you have -- can you add any color to that in terms of what you think could happen there if anything? Well I can't tell you what might happen but as far as we know there is no pending legislation or bills in California.
But I don't know at the moment what is being introduced.
We haven't heard anything to give concern at this juncture.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Your question comes from the line of Gaurav Mehta of Cantor Fitzgerald.
Yes.
Hi.
You said Europe is strong.
Could you share operational occupancy and rent data for European portfolio? Sure.
The same-store portfolio for Europe operated at 90.1% for the quarter that's up from 84.9% last year so 6% increase in occupancy.
Realized rents were down a point and half so revenue growth is about 4.5% 4.6% and at quarter end the portfolio occupancy was 91.1%.
All the markets across Europe were up in occupancy year-over-year.
The strongest being in the Holland which closed out at quarter 87.5% versus 76% last year so 15% growth but if you recall Holland has been a challenge for us over the last couple of years so it is obviously recovering and catching up with the rest of Europe.
Okay.
Thank you.
That’s all I have.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Spector of Bank of America.
Good afternoon.
If we could first focus on profit margins for the quarter in the U.S.
saw a nice improvement there? Can you discuss I guess the declines in advertising selling expense and R&amp;M what we should expect maybe going forward the next couple quarters or even into ’16? Yeah.
Jeff this is John.
On the advertising the advertising was down in the quarter primarily because we didn't do television advertising in this second quarter versus last year where we did do about I think about a $0.5 million of advertising.
We also spent a little less on the key search terms on the Internet.
I think that was down maybe a couple hundred thousand dollars there.
Going forward on the advertising I would expect that it’s probably going to be relatively flat Q3 and into Q4 because we probably go back on to television in those quarters similar to what we did last year.
As per the R&amp;M I think it's really -- it's down but it’s mostly I think timing I think we're expecting for the full year that R&amp;M will be relatively flat.
So there should be a little bit of an uptick in the latter half this year.
Okay.
Great.
And then I know that each quarter we asked about occupancy in the business your portfolio as a whole for all self storage keeps rising at national levels.
I mean any new thoughts on full occupancy levels to your portfolio even just in general for self storage industry? Is your question what we think we possibly achieve like what is the maximum occupancy level? Is that the question? Yeah.
Basically and of course I would assume that's based on what you're seeing in your markets in general? Yeah.
We have a couple of markets our better performing markets in the quarter like Denver and Portland that had -- I think that ran about 97% almost 98% occupancy for the quarter.
So you can say nationwide so we possible achieve that where you have every market was hitting on all cylinders.
But more likely than not is there some strong markets some average markets and some weak markets.
So that might be tough to achieve on a national basis.
For instance right now our DC Norfolk Virginia markets are languishing a little bit.
At the Midwest it’s not nearly as strong as the West Coast.
So to say 2000 portfolio will operate at 90% probably pretty hard.
Having said that we’re about 96% today.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then last question on the supply front I know the last time I saw your team we discussed the competition for land with departments anything thereon on competition for site anything on the supply front to share with us any anything more recent from June July? While I think our main competitors for sites are multifamily not really retail.
Some storage guys although once in a while we run into a storage guy competing for the site but it’s mainly the multifamily.
In terms of supply nationwide we think it’s picking up.
If you look at our development pipeline as a percentage of our portfolio it’s about 2.7%.
So maybe you can extrapolate that in the industry and say the industry is growing at 2.7% as a whole.
So that 1000 1200 properties.
Growth is not uniform across the country though.
It’s occurring where you would expect Texas Florida the Carolinas.
The positive of those markets is they have above average population growth.
It’s not occurring to any significant degree in San Francisco L.A.
Boston Miami the markets which are much more challenging to get zoning and find sites to develop.
Does that address your question? Yes.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas of Keybanc Capital Markets.
Hi.
Thanks.
Just -- I was wondering if you took a look at the SmartStop portfolio and if you did why you chose not to be as aggressive on the deal as your competitors just given where your cost of capital fits? Todd we did look at the portfolio but I prefer not to answer that question.
Okay.
And thinking about your marketing platform and your digital footprint how does the scalability factor in to your decision to buy properties and does it factor into the equation at all for PSA when you’re looking to make new investments? Certainly scale does.
We look to increase our market share in our key markets where we operate.
So if you look at our market like Florida Miami Fort Lauderdale.
Over the past five eight years we've grown from about 14% market share to 25% 28% market share.
The same has happened in markets like Minnesota Seattle certainly in Dallas and Houston where we’re building.
Our market share is increasing there.
So we very much focus our acquisition in our development program on expanding our platform in the key markets where we operate.
And so that’s certainly enters into our decision in terms of when you look at our portfolio like the one you just mentioned there is a lot of tertiary markets there where we have no product and in a number of cases we have no interest in having a new product.
So it doesn't do much for the platform.
Certainly scale in markets is very important.
John can touch on the marketing side of it and the pricing side of it and scale in terms of operating efficiency managerial talent brand awareness.
Here in L.A.
we often have analyst come through and say jeez you guys are everywhere here in L.A.
and we are here in everywhere in L.A.
We dominate the market and it’s 200 plus property.
So that's great for brand awareness and in television advertising and marketing.
You want to add anything? No I don’t want to add anything.
Okay.
Does that answer your question? Yeah.
That’s helpful.
Just a follow-up then on selling and advertising expense it was down nearly 10% but it was still about $5.5 million in the quarter.
And just thinking about where occupancy is why is that not down more? I would think that you could pare that back a bit more? We’re doing everything we can to pare it back.
Even though our occupancies remain high we still had over 2000 tenants move out during the quarter.
So we still have to advertise to replace those tenants and maintain the occupancy level.
So if people stop moving out I can guarantee you will cut down that advertising cost quite a bit.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Dennis it’s a follow-up on that previous question.
As you’re approaching 96% -- I guess you hit 96% in July.
It’s unlike -- what point do you think it drove sufficiently high enough and I know you’ve been pushing rates already but maybe push harder? When does that equation can start to favor pushing the rate level much more than just keeping occupancies higher? The problem that happens when you start pushing rate too high is you will get a tenant that you probably have to continue to provide the dollar special discount and/or you will get a tenant that will not be a very long-term tenant.
So it's not necessarily -- the game is not won on the move-in rate.
The game is won on getting the tenant that stays long and becomes very sticky to rate increases.
Although we are pushing rate could we get more aggressive? Absolutely.
We would lose occupancy and we would get a tenant that would not stay as long.
And that's not in our strategy.
They key to follow-on on that for the quarter percentage of customers greater than one year was up 60 basis points to 55.9% up from 55.3%.
So if you had a chart in front of you last three years you would see each quarter and year-over-year we are moving that percentage of customers greater than one year up.
And that really tends to -- goes to John’s comment in terms of filling that base of stable customers that are somewhat of an sticky annuity.
And the second question.
When you are talking to which I’m assuming you are -- lot of the big operators outside of five public companies now.
How have the conversations evolved in terms of their willingness to sell kind of -- the bid-ask spread between what they want versus what you are willing to pay for assets? Has that gotten -- you are trying to put a measuring stick to it more feasible to do bigger deals or still tough as before? Well usually the dynamic in the larger portfolio is not per se question of price.
At this juncture it’s more a question of ownership dynamics connecting the families that can be partners.
That can be that other alternatives to selling just simply refinancing because it’s not hard to refinance a full stable portfolio at this juncture.
So there is a lot of alternatives to the more established operators besides just selling and/or price.
There is other dynamics within the ownership going up besides just do you want to sell or do you not want to sell.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of George Hoglund of Jefferies.
Yeah.
Just wondered if you can comment on what the insurance participation rate was at the end of the quarter and then also if there is any update you can provide on any of the ongoing loss to the legal fees whether it’s pertaining to tenant insurance or what other matters that may have been resolved that you can comment on? So your first question was how much -- was your question how much of the portfolio was covered by insurance or customer base or what’s the tenant insurance rates for new customers? What part of the existing portfolio? George.
So approximately 66% to 68% of our tenants have the tenant -- participate in the tenant reinsurance program that is offered at our properties.
In terms of the G&amp;A this part quarter G&amp;A was up about $5.5 million and about $3.2 million of that were related to increased legal costs and it’s for various matters out there.
And we are not going to go through what those matters are on this call.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeremy Metz of UBS.
Hey.
It’s Ross Nussbaum here with Jeremy.
Can you talk a little bit about the topic of move-ins versus move-outs? What was the percentage increase or decrease year-over-year for each of those stats in Q2? Yeah.
This is John.
So the move-ins were down about 1% of the move-in rate.
The rental rates that they came in at was up about 8% for the quarter.
On the move-outs the moved-outs were about flat year-over-year.
The rate -- the contract rate or the rental rate that they retain was up about 4.5%.
Does that answer your question? Yeah it does.
I asked this question of extra space as well.
I’m trying to think of -- how should we'll be thinking about the fact that move-ins are down year-over-year yet the industries enjoying such significant occupancy and pricing pressure? Should we be considering all without that number? I can’t speak about other people’s move-in volumes and whether they are up or down.
But what I could tell you with respect to ours with their occupancy as high as they are and our occupancy spread being higher than last year we have less inventory to sell.
So notwithstanding the fact that our absolute numbers of moving volume is down the velocity of move-ins the move-ins relative to what we have to sell as a percentage is up quite a bit.
So I mean if you took it to an extreme and we were 100% occupied we would have no move-ins right.
So closer we get to 100% occupied it's very difficult to get move-in volumes on a year-over-year basis to increase.
So we are quite comfortable with the move-ins.
We are still getting a lot of -- unfortunately we're getting a lot of demand into our system the demand the call volume the hits to our website our website of both mobile and desktop are still way up.
Part of our problem is that we have -- we are running into capacity issue in terms of inventory.
Ross for the quarter even though the move-in volume was down about 2000 customers and the move-outs were about flat we still had 21 800 net customers for the quarter.
That’s less than last year when we had 24 000 net customers.
But to John’s point we still had on that 21 000 more people move-in to move-out during the quarter.
Got it.
Okay.
Ron look strategically you talked about the Shurgard European IPO in the works.
You and I have talked in the past about PS Business Parks.
And while you’re talking earlier I was just pulling up a relative chart of PSA versus PSB over basically any timeframe you want to put out from year-to-date to 20 years.
And PSA has been kicking PSBs but from a relative share price performance.
I guess what’s it going to take ultimately to spin those shares off to shareholders and what your existing shareholders say if they want them be invest in self-storage let them surely invest in self-storage.
And if they like PSB they can hold those shares.
Well Ross step back couple of things.
First of all if you -- self-storage is a completely different business than flex industrial.
So that’s one.
Two PSB is about 4% of our NOI enterprise value whatever you want to call it.
Three if for us to change our attitude on doing anything with PSB in terms of spinning off or sign it there would be need to be a change in the tax law such that we would not pay any taxes on that because most of our interest are held in OP units which have quite frankly a de minimis tax basis.
And so whatever we did with it we for the most part be purely taxable income and in that requiring a distribution.
Okay.
Yes that last point is interesting.
Okay.
I think Jeremy has got a question.
Hey just one quick for me.
Obviously you took -- it looks like 10 Houston assets are the same-store pool.
Can you just talk about what’s going on with those and what kind of costs you’re looking at to get them back online just given that you’re self-insured? Thank you.
While there were flooded there were some pretty severe weather in Houston in the Q2.
They’re poorly damaged and so we took them out of the same-store pool because they will require extensive repairs.
And on tenant insurance business we had about $800 000 additional cost for estimated claims related to those properties.
And in terms of our final estimate of how much it’s going to cost to repair we don’t have that that’s still under process.
My guess is it would be a couple million dollars.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Stender of Wells Fargo.
Hi thanks.
We saw that Shurgard issued the bond to fund their Netherlands acquisition.
And Ron you noted that they are generating free cash flow.
But just as a reminder is there a commitment in place for Public Storage to provide capital to Shurgard just get a reminder what the commitment is if any? No Shurgard operates as a standalone entity.
We own 49% of it a large pension fund owns 51% of it the other 51% and Shurgard has taken quite a while to get here but Shurgard is self-funding.
And as I noted and it issued the bonds the €600 million bonds without any credit support from either of the two shareholders.
But nothing in writing to say you would commit equity to a large acquisition or anything like that? No.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just to look at an update of your current expectations your same-store pool continues to generate accelerating fundamentals at this point in the cycle.
Any updated thoughts on what it takes to say stabilize new development and C/O deals anything that you’ve revised anything internally as we enter August here? Well internally we continue to use our historical underwriting assumptions of generally about three years for a standard size property.
If it’s above average size say like Gerard property I believe we used four years.
So for 2000 plus unit property we used the four-year stabilization period.
The nice thing is we are exceeding those by quite a bit.
We opened a new facility here in Glendale about 2000 units at the end of April and it’s already have 50% occupied in about two months.
So that’s a quite incredible that’s a combination of it’s a great product the marketing team the internet marketing team highlighting that facility the pricing team pricing it to sell and then of course operational execution at the unit level.
Is that causing you to accelerate your underwriting as you look at stuff that may close in the second half of this year? Accelerate you mean accelerate development faster? Your expectations of stabilization? I think we will be -- all of our stuff that’s in the pipeline now filling up.
I guess new deals.
We are well ahead on across the board in terms of financials.
We are not changing our underwriting.
No we are not changing our underwriting.
Okay.
So still three years.
We continue to underwrite it conservatively to keep the discipline on what we’re developing.
Okay.
Thank you Ron.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller of JPMorgan.
Hi.
Sticking with development for a second it looks like right now the pipeline is $450 million to $500 million for development and expansion.
Two questions one does it feel like over the near term that’s a good run rate for the size of the pipeline? And then secondly if you didn’t start anything new how long does it take you to complete those developments to bring them online? Mike I think we are -- the team has got their track shoes on and they are going around the track about as fast as they can with respect to the development team.
They are doing a great job.
And keep in mind in terms of the development pipeline you’ve got stuff delivering right.
So we’ve got product like the Glendale property delivered in Q2 so that comes out of the pipeline and so you got to backfill that just to kind of run in place at $500 million or $480 million.
So there's a continuous in out process on that pipeline of deliveries and the new projects coming into it.
So I wouldn't anticipate much more that number going much above $500 million certainly not within the next six to 12 month.
In terms of what we've got under construction and how long it will be pretty much third fourth quarter of '16 before that's all built in out of the ground and up and operating and then you can figure two years after that before it stabilize.
So think in '18 before what we're working on now get stabilized.
Got it.
Okay.
That was it.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa of Evercore ISI.
Thanks.
Good morning.
John as you just kind of parse through the rent data I guess can you kind of hit on my question? But I’m just trying to think if you see anything kind of in the data as it relates to rent increases pushback from customers anything kind of by region maybe by demographic profile of the center just anything that you could sort of share with us about kind of the elasticity of demand here? Yes.
Steve we do look at that we look it by markets by demographics.
We aren’t seeing anything different than what we saw last year so they’re behaving the same for the most part.
So we’re continuing to send out those increases just the same strategy as we have last year.
We probably year-to-date have spent out about 5% or more increases and the percentage increases about the same as last year which is about 9% to 10%.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then Ron I know we’ve talked a little bit about sort of your funding strategy and your maybe desire to expand your capital sources.
And you are sort of contemplating the unsecured bond market.
Just kind of what the status today I realize you're largely self-funding unless maybe something large comes along? But is there any even thought process to doing some longer data debt and we even have an opportunity to maybe call in some of the preferreds and new kind of a swap there? Steve we are certainly looking at that.
So I wouldn’t be surprised if before the year it’s done that we haven’t kept into some form of debt.
I’ve mentioned the last time we’ve been looking at private placement as well as public debt.
We’ve looked at various maturity levels which certainly long-dated maturities also.
And we do have a few series of preferred stock one becomes callable in the fourth quarter of this year.
And I think we have two larger series that become callable next year so definitely on in my mind.
And I think you might see something happen before the end of the year.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question is a follow-up from Smedes Rose of Citigroup.
Hey it’s Michael Bilerman.
Ron I want to just come back on development.
So 2.7% outstanding today relative to your stock and I think you commented that used as a good proxy for the rest of the industry.
And I guess from the delivery standpoint I think you said most of what’s underdevelopment today is going to deliver by the end of 2016? Or do you think some of what gets pushed from a completion standpoint at the '17? No.
Michael I think most of what in the projects that I kind of used the 60 properties either under construction or about to start construction.
We’re pretty close to getting the deal tie down.
I would anticipate that those will be constructed by the end of 2016 a good chunk balance of this year first half of next year but it will dribble out through 2016.
So if you take that 60 properties we’re 5% of the industry say so that’s about 1200 properties nationwide right.
100 million to 120 million square feet it’s not occurring at all but all the uniformity they’ll cross the country.
Where we’re developing where we see other people developing the most of markets where you'd expect Texas Florida Arizona we’re not developing anything in the Midwest but their stuff going on there.
Where's development not or it’s de minimis Los Angeles San Francisco Downtown Seattle Downtown Miami Boston where it’s very challenging to get sites.
You’re competing with the high-rise residential guys where there is simply not available land available to build self-storage.
So it’s not uniform across the country.
But if you can take our portfolio our development is a percentage of our portfolio and where we are in the industry.
2.5% 3% industry expansion doesn't sound unreasonable.
That compares with the kind of the Canada growth rate which I talked about on previous calls of U.S population growth which is somewhere between 0.8% and 1% across the country.
Again population growth is not uniform.
It’s higher in markets like Texas Florida Arizona so maybe the product coming on there can be absorbed by the above average population growth.
Do you feel like the rest of the industry is accelerating development faster than you as more capital comes into the system and they see the good fundamentals and so while you maybe developing 2.7% of your base.
As we move over the next 12 months that 2.7 is going to expect at least double from the last 12 month but it doubled again and rise to 5% of the stock as we go into ‘17 and ‘18? I don’t want to rule out any possibility.
Certainly the opportunity for developer to do what is referred to as the C of O deals with pretty much the other public companies are offering to buy properties newly developed take away the fill-up risk the operational risk and from what we’ve observed pay close to retail prices on that.
That’s certainly a very very strong incentive if you’re a local or regional developer for you to build and sell product and into the public market be as a C of O deals.
What that does to the volume I don't know.
And does our percentage reflective of the industry or maybe we start development a couple years ago so maybe we’re at low ahead of the curve.
But our feeling here our observation is certainly development is accelerating most regional and local operators that we talk to are all developing whether it’s one project or five.
Lot of people are developing product.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Omotayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
My questions have actually been answered.
Thank you.
Next question is a follow-up from Todd Thomas of Keybanc Capital Markets.
Hi guys.
It’s Jordan Sadler here with Todd.
Just a follow up on your last comment there regarding folks paying I guess your competitors paying retail for the C of O deals in your retail.
How would you define retail versus wholesales or what do you think that is the premium level of the cost? 150% its varies Jordan.
I mean I don’t have any information to say what we just -- we can look at what we're building for per foot approximately and see some of these deals and go.
Okay that is about 150% to 200% of what we’re building for those market.
That's interesting.
Okay.
And I have a totally separate question which is just regarding dividend policy.
Can you speak to I mean historically over the years I feel like you guys have try to maintain your dividend to add that taxable net income essentially.
But by the same token as this is your portfolio had seasoned and your leverage had decline relative to the size the overall portfolio your payout ratios have climbed.
I think it peaked in the last cycle you were probably paying out less than 50% of cash flow as a dividend.
And today we’ve got you in low 80s or something like that.
Can you speak to that at all and are there any strategies that you can employ besides sort of maybe levering up where you would be able to sort of reduce that and is that on your mind? Jordan if you -- let's go back to the kind of middle of your question you start to where we at the 2008-2009 kind of the great recession that we were at 50% payout why where we that low? While we had done the Shurgard merger in 2006 and if you recall that was about $5.5 billion deal.
We structured that even though it was all stock as a taxable transaction.
So which was very important to us so we picked up a lot of tax basis in that transaction in one shot.
In addition a lot of the merger costs and option exercise costs and severance costs we waited till the deal closed.
And so we’ve got a lot of tax benefits from that transaction in ‘06 ‘07 or ‘08 which helps to keep our -- our earnings were growing our payout wasn't changing and so the spread between earnings and payout got very low to your comment.
As time has gone on the portfolios continued to improve we’ve delevered and some of those tax benefits have burned off to where we’re -- basically our payout is still at a taxable income.
That strategy has not changed in 25 years is still our taxable income.
But as the portfolios grown we are only able to retain $250 million $300 million a year.
So as the earning basis is growing that has reduced our percentage of retaining cash flow.
The absolute numbers about the same but percentage wise therefore our payout ratios has gone up.
John you want to? In terms of -- if we did leverage would that help us if it was positive leverage it would probably exacerbate the problem.
And the other thing George as we just recently increased our dividend so we increased it to a level that we think will sustain us probably for another year.
So right now what you're seeing is that 80% that you threw out will probably get down into the 70s.
So it's not -- you're looking at I think for one quarter because we just bumped it this past quarter.
But it'll get back down into 70s again.
So you are looking at the front end of that dividend increase relative to the current earnings.
What we did is projected out earnings for the next 12 months and came up with that dividend level.
So I think you’ll see it come back a little bit more in line but it’s not going back down to 50%.
I think it’s probably -- we pretty much hit the wall in terms of I think what we can do to reduce taxable income.
So I think that’s where you are going to see our payout ratio for the foreseeable future.
That’s helpful.
Does that factored at all when you're underwriting an acquisition the ability to sort of utilize that depreciation and maintain that cash flow because on your base it's obviously pretty significant.
Well each acquisition is about the same percentage of land building and a depreciable life with 29 30 years.
Yeah.
I meant more like portfolio or entity level acquisition.
You mean when we go to do something similar to Shurgard where we can get a large all stocked taxable transaction? Yeah.
Well.
It would be nice but… Is that a piece of the equation as you look at portfolio and you look at M&amp;A looking at this potential free cash flow and freeing up this monstrous free cash flow you get a tax benefit of.
Let me go back to the Shurgard transaction.
So the way that was structured is -- what are the underlying cash flows what’s the underlying real estate and how much real estate value are we giving up by issuing 20% of our stock 25% of our stock in exchange for the Shurgard assets? So that was the way we structured the deal the pricing we came up with the deal.
We didn't factor in synergies and we didn't factor in the tax attributes.
Those things were icing on the cake.
And to take care of the things that we didn't know about in the transaction.
But so our underwriting on real estate the way we think about it what markets sub markets really goes to that question I answered earlier about our strategy of building presence and dominance in markets building and buying A and B locations the tax side of it is not part of that underwriting analysis in terms of what we'll pay for something of our view on the quality of the real estate.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I’ll now turn the call to Clem Teng for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you all for your attendance this afternoon and your questions.
We’ll speak to you again next quarter.
Thank you.
That does conclude today’s Public Storage second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Public Storage Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Clem Teng to begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our third quarter earnings call.
Here with me today are Ron Havner and John Reyes.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this conference call are forward-looking statements subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.
These risks and other factors that could adversely affect our business and future results are described in today's earnings press release and in our reports filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of today October 29 2015 and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A reconciliation to GAAP of the non-GAAP financial measures we are providing on this call is included in our earnings press release.
You can find our press release SEC reports and an audio Webcast replay of this conference call on our Web site at www.publicstorage.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ron.
Thank you Clem.
And welcome everyone to the third-quarter call.
We had a pretty solid quarter across all of our businesses.
And our West Coast properties in particular Denver West performed particularly strong this quarter and in the makeup a pretty good size of our portfolio.
But overall it was a great quarter across all of our businesses.
With that we'll open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Gaurav Mehta with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Ron can you talk about your performance in Europe for the quarter? Sure.
Europe had a great quarter.
It would have translated into a really good quarter for us were it not for the currency.
But operating fundamentals were excellent.
Same-store NOI in Europe was up 8.8% led by the Netherlands which was up 13.9% year-over-year.
Occupancy for the period was 91% up from 86.5% last year so solid quarter in Europe.
And then we did a couple of portfolio acquisitions so I think overall NOI in Europe was up 15% 16%.
Okay.
And one more if I may what was the peak occupancy for your U.S.
portfolio in the quarter? You mean which months? Yes or how much.
For the quarter we peaked at July at 95.5%.
Our next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust.
I don't want to get hung up on one quarter but when I look at the performance that you guys put up on same-store revenue 10 basis points deceleration from last quarter.
Not a big deal.
But when I compare it relative to your peers that reported the other guys were able to reaccelerate or continue acceleration this quarter.
Just curious what your thoughts were on why your portfolio didn't reaccelerate? This is Ron.
I thought we had an exceptionally good quarter.
Comparing us to others is a little hard both because of geography mix as well as what people put in their same-stores versus what we put in our same-stores.
So it's a little apples and bananas.
Okay.
And can you give me a quick update on what your street rates were this quarter in terms of year-over-year? I'll tell you what our movement rates were up by because that's more important than street rates.
Street rates the move-in rates were up about 5% year-over-year -- 5.3% actually our move-ins just to add a little bit more to that were up about 1% with higher move-in rates by about 5.3%.
I see.
It seems a little bit lower than last quarter's 8% number.
Any particular reason why? Last year we also had less move-ins too.
We had about 1% less move-ins with an 8% increase in move-in rates.
I would say the second quarter was by far a very strong quarter for us.
Third quarter was a great quarter too but not as strong I think as what we saw in the second quarter.
The other thing that happened in the third quarter is we spent about 20% less in marketing costs.
So we didn't spend nearly as much as we spent last year on both the Internet on search terms as well as on television.
So that doesn't show up on the top line.
It shows up in the expense line.
But nonetheless pretty happy that we got a 1% increase in move-ins with about 5.3% increase in rate without doing nearly as much marketing as we did last year.
Our next question comes from the line of George Hoglund with Jefferies.
During the quarter it looks like only two property acquisitions closed and you had a little bit of a larger pipeline at the end of last quarter.
Is this just because most of those deals are C of O deals yet to close or is there any sort of delay in closing deals going on? No they weren't C of O deals.
The challenge with them is they had debt assumptions CMBS debt assumptions which if you've ever done one of that that's like getting a tooth extracted.
So it's taken a little longer to close.
But I think we've got 10 or 11 queued up to close in Q4.
And then just one other thing just in terms of the debt issuance you guys doing the private placement in euro denominated.
But going forward would you guys also be looking to do a U.S.
dollar denominated issuance if you guys have a use for the proceeds? Probably yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Smedes Rose with Citigroup.
I just wanted to ask you looking through the first nine month you've done an amazing job at keeping the total cost down only up 1.3% the cost of operating the properties.
And as you look into next year what are the key areas where you might be seeing more pressure? I would imagine property tax is one of them but are there any others that you see any particular upticks? Smedes I think property taxes they were up 6.1% for the quarter on our same-store properties 5.1% year to date.
That will continue to be a challenge.
John can elaborate on that.
Payroll will probably be 2% to 3%.
We've enjoyed for the last two or three years declining advertising Internet cost because the portfolio's been full.
We've been able to extend customer duration.
So we just have not needed to spend as much on promotion.
I would be surprised if that number continues to decline in 2016.
And then the other categories I'd just assume a general inflation rate.
Quarter to date for the quarter our advertising promotion was down 19% year to date.
It's down 18%.
And that's really contributed to the big decline or flat-lining of expenses.
And again I wouldn't expect that to continue John any comments on property taxes? Nothing in particular we're all seeing that property taxes are going up.
Many municipalities are becoming more and more aggressive.
It's mostly on the valuation at least with respect to our portfolio reassessing the values.
We do the best we can to push back on valuations but it gets tougher and tougher and they're more aggressive out there.
So I expect that next year we could probably -- this year we're looking at about a 5% increase for the full fiscal year -- next year I wouldn't be surprised if that bumps up to about 6%.
Okay.
Could you just maybe -- you just mentioned length of stay or duration -- what is that now and how is that changing or how has it changed over the course of the year? Sure.
For the quarter we had 56.6% of our customers with us greater than a year.
That is up from 55.8% at the same time last year so 0.8% absolute increase in the percentage of customers greater than a year.
To put that in perspective in 2012 that number was 54.5%.
If you could look at it over the last two or three years each quarter quarter over quarter and year-over-year we've been able to move the length of stay up the percentage of customers greater than a year.
That translates into this year versus last year we've got 13 400 more customers greater than a year in the portfolio a 2.2% improvement.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeremy Metz with UBS.
Hi it's Ross here with Jeremy.
Ron you've been at this 20 25-plus years.
I'm pretty sure this is as good as you've ever seen it in the business.
What's keeping you up at night? It looks like at least for the time being as we look ahead to 2016 there doesn't seem to be anything that's going to throw a wrench into the system.
Other than the supply number ticking up is there anything that worries you about the ability to maintain pricing power? A couple things Ross new supply is coming and I believe it will continue to accelerate for all the right rational reasons.
You can build far cheaper than you can buy.
Operating fundamentals in the business are unbelievably good for a variety of reasons -- full employment job creation the economy's doing well low interest rates.
So the fundamentals of the business are exceptional.
You can get capital to build.
So new supply is coming and at some point that will start to impact people's pricing power.
Simple supply and demand -- as more supply comes in that will impact pricing power.
I don't see that being a big negative headwind at least for another year but it's coming.
And then in terms of the economy I can't predict the economy but the economy's been good.
Things that hit the economy tend to be shocks and then that disrupts the business environment and then you start to have an uptick in unemployment and layoffs and all those things which tend to not severely affect us but will slow growth down.
So that's probably on the horizon.
But barring those the fundamentals for our business are great because of the employment and the last four five years lack of new supply.
Jeremy's got one.
I just had a quick one on discounts.
It feels like the gains from the lower discounting may be largely behind us at this point.
But I just wonder if you can give us an update on where they trend in 3Q relative to last year and just how you're viewing discounting here going into the slower season.
Jeremy this is John.
In terms of the number of tenants getting discounts during the third quarter I think we were giving them to about 70% of the move-ins versus about I think 73% or 75% last year.
But the absolute dollars of discounts are actually up because our rental rates are higher than that than the percentage decrease in the absolute number.
So we are giving less but it's translating into more dollars because our rental rates are up.
I think for the quarter our discounting just to give you some numbers we gave away about $23 million of discounts.
That's versus $22 million last year.
So we're up about 5% there.
Our next question comes from the line of Vikram Malhotra with Morgan Stanley.
Going back to Europe can you talk about any additional opportunities there? There's a bunch of smaller players.
Clearly they don't have the platform you guys have or many of the other U.S.
players have.
Just if you could give us some sense of any incremental opportunity there you see.
Recall there's only Western Europe 1 600 1 800 properties in all of Western Europe.
I think 800 to 900 of them are in Great Britain and a lot of those are outside of London.
And we don't really want to in terms of Great Britain go outside of London.
So a lot of those just don't come into our radar in terms of where we want to grow the portfolio.
In several of the markets we have dominant share -- Stockholm Belgium 70% 80% share of the market.
In terms of the rest of Europe there's probably a couple hundred million of stuff to do but not a lot.
To give you some perspective you take the city of Berlin 3.5 million people where we acquired two properties earlier this year there are 15 self storage properties in Berlin with 3.5 million people.
You have markets like that where clearly the opportunity is to develop versus acquire because there's really not much to acquire.
So we're ramping up our development program in Europe.
We were fortunate to get these two acquisitions.
There may be like I said $100 million or $150 million more.
But really the growth in Europe's going to come from development for us.
And to clarify you're looking to maybe develop some additional assets there? Yes.
We opened one in London this quarter and we've got two more coming out of the ground in the next six months.
We've hired a person to help us in Germany and in particular Berlin so you should expect some development activity in that market next year.
And just to clarify your sense of what the heals are over there versus here in the US? I haven't seen anything on paper yet but my guess is they'll be close to the US.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Just a follow-up to Jeremy's question you ran through you the discounting in the quarter but I think you've previously talked about that as the overall customer acquisition cost.
I was just wondering if you could share with us where that cost is today and how that's trended over the last year.
Sure.
For the quarter Todd our marketing costs were down $1 million.
Our discounts were up $800 000.
So net-net we were flat on promotional cost.
Move-ins were up 1% up 2 000 as John said.
So our cost to acquire a customer went down $1 from $126 to $125.
The move-in rate was up 5% or $7.
The move-in fees were up $1.
So net-net for each customer we made $35 upon move-in versus $26 last year.
So that's a 35% improvement in our customer acquisition cost for the quarter.
Year-to-date numbers are somewhat comparable.
We have a 31% improvement in customer acquisition costs from $26 to $34 again due to lower spend greater volume higher rates.
Is 35 -- is that a peak for the portfolio? In terms of profitability upon move-in? Sorry is that the highest number -- yes -- the most profitable quarter that you've seen? Since we've been tracking this yes our overall promotional and marketing cost to put it in a different light for you in 2011 we spent 9.2% of revenues on promotional discounts and marketing cost and year to date we're at 5.7%.
And then just a question on development it sounds like the C of O portfolios within the REIT portfolios are growing rather quickly here and developers are bringing sites to the market and you're talking about new supply accelerating.
What's happening to land prices? And is the competition for development impacting your ability to start new projects? Is the pipeline potentially going to thin out a little bit? It hasn't so far but my guess my expectation is that it will change as development is ramped up and more people start to do it.
But that really hasn't been an impediment for us.
The thing that we are seeing is an uptick in construction cost and it's harder in some markets to get contractors available to perform the construction.
Guys are building apartments and hotels and retail.
So the construction business is pretty good now so we've seen a little more challenge on the labor contractor side and then an uptick in material cost.
Again not big enough to slow us down but we have seen that versus two years ago when we started.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of David Bragg with Green Street Advisors.
G&amp;A saw another pretty large increase again this quarter.
We assume that it's again driven by legal costs.
Can you talk about when we should expect to receive more clarity on the nature of these costs? There's legal fees and in this quarter we booked a $3.5 million reserve for a proposed settlement.
Dave if you recall in our 10-Q we break out in a fair amount of granularity the components of G&amp;A.
Yes we've seen that.
We'll look forward to it this quarter.
Okay.
And as far as you can see the outlook for 2016 legal expenses relative to 2015 does it look like this will subside? I hope so.
Second question although you've been pretty clear in recent quarters that you continue to pursue debt options how about a commercial paper program which a couple other very large REITs have pursued? Is that on your radar screen? No.
It's not even thinking that way.
Okay.
Last question is on property taxes.
You talked about the outlook there.
Relative to prior cycles what's your view on the extent to which assessments are below market? And outside of California is there any big variability? This is John David.
I think California's probably as you pointed because of Prop 13 is probably the biggest variable.
I think most other states depending on what you think market is or what assessors think market is I think most of our properties are either assessed each year or every other year at the worst.
So they're probably for the most part fairly close to market but I'm guessing at that.
I don't know because again I don't know what the assessors are looking at.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller with JPMorgan.
Going to development for a second if you put aside a project like Gerard or something can you talk about what you're seeing in terms of the time to lease up new developments today compared to underwriting? I guess per expansion that's really going to be a function of size.
So just on the new development side what you're seeing.
Yes Mike the new developments are leasing up much faster than we underwrite.
Now part of that's attributable to the fact that we're opening them with lower rates than we're underwriting and probably a few more discounts.
We open a property here in Glendale in May 2 000 units it's about a mile and-a-half here from corporate headquarters and it's already 72% occupied which is phenomenal.
We underwrote it for three- three-and-a-half year fill-up.
And that one's actually pretty chose in terms of rates that we underwrote.
That's filling up at rates pretty close that we underwrote.
In general for developments depending on the size of the property we underwrite a three- to four-year fill-up and a reserve in terms of the cost to carry that property until it stabilizes.
So so far knock on wood developments are filling up much faster than anticipated.
And then for the projects where you really cut the rent and fill it up can you bring everybody to market the year after that or close to it or do you have to stagger? What's the dynamic there? It will take a couple of years.
It depends on how far below quote market we brought them in at.
So it will take a couple years of rental rate increases to get them close to market.
And then once the property stabilizes we'll bring the rents closer to market.
So it will take a couple of years of rent roll-up for it to get to the targeted or underwritten rental rate in-place rents.
Our next question comes from the line of Wes Golladay with RBC Capital Markets.
Hi guys I tried to hop out of the queue.
I had a question on Glendale which you successfully anticipated.
Maybe I'll ask one more on the balance sheet.
You mentioned not wanting to do commercial paper.
But would the preference be for tenured debt or maybe even pushing it out to 30 years? What's the mindset on the debt market? Right now yes we've looked at 7 10 12 15 30 year debt.
So right now when we go out there and issue debt again we'll probably look at how it's -- we want to properly tranche the debt so that we feel comfortable with future fill-up maturities.
So I think right now for us we're not ready to do another one but when we do we will look at the various maturity dates.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Stender with Wells Fargo.
Just looking at the acquisitions the two in Colorado you have a few teed up to close it looks like in the near term California Florida and Texas can you just talk about the difference in cap rates you're seeing if there is any really on a stabilized basis? Todd I don't think there's a material difference.
For the most part stuff is trading at trailing 4 to 5 yields on previous owners' NOI.
And that seems to be the market or the market expectation.
The thing that we given that we pay a lot of attention to is what is replacement cost and asset location.
So what do we think we can do in terms of rental rates and then how much does this property cost versus what does it cost to build out of those 11 properties 800 000 square feet just over 800 000 square feet you're at about $132 a foot which is within plus/minus 5% 10% of what we think we can build the properties for.
And any details on the MSAs you're buying in? Are these the top 25? And what's your appetite to go within the top 50? We're finding the top 50.
These particular properties fill in our portfolio nicely both in terms of -- I think the Florida ones are primarily in Orlando and they fill in our Orlando franchise nicely as well as the stuff in Dallas and Houston.
So it's really if you think of a market like Dallas or Houston or Orlando where we have anywhere between 50 and 100 120 properties we're really trying to do acquisitions that fill in the franchise cover some markets where maybe we don't necessarily have product but we'd like to have product.
And then finally if you could just shed some light on how your underwriting assumptions particularly for the Glendale property you said is leasing up at 72% occupied how does that relate to what your underwriting yield was relative to how quickly you can lease it up? Five months into it we would have underwritten about 20% 24% occupancy.
It's at 72%.
So even though the rates may be slightly low the cash we're getting and the net cash flow the property's already breaking even and generating a profit.
We would have underwritten to not make a profit for six to nine months so we're already net positive cash.
It will take a couple of years when it stabilizes to really sit back and say what is the cash on cash return and how much extra money do we make by filling up faster versus taking a more traditional approach of starting rates higher and filling it up slower.
I'd also say that property is rather iconic and there is a lot of great things going on in Glendale.
The market was undersupplied.
So there's another aspect of building the right product in the right submarket and certainly that property fits the bill there.
Great.
Thank you.
Did that answer your question? It certainly did.
Thank you Ron.
Our next question comes from the line of Jana Galan with Bank of America.
A trend we're seeing in apartments currently is smaller MSAs are experiencing stronger rent growth than the larger markets.
I was curious if you're seeing that in storage as well or does rate and demand continue to be primarily driven by submarket density? I'm looking here at the revenue growth for most of our markets.
Our top revenue grower for the quarter was Portland at 15.7% followed by Orlando at 13.5% Sacramento at 13.8%.
Nashville was 12.1%.
Dallas was 11.9% Houston was 11%.
Does that give you a sense of things? The flip side is Philadelphia at 4.3% DC at 3.2% Chicago at 3.2%.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeremy Metz with UBS.
Hi it's Ross again.
Is there any thought of potentially using some equity funding here given the potential run up in the stock this year? How are you thinking about cost of capital on the equity side relative to your alternatives? Ross I certainly like the stock price.
It certainly reflects the great fundamental trends in our business.
But one of the things you have to ask yourself is does it really make sense to issue equity when we have such an unlevered balance sheet.
We did the euro deal at 2.7 or 2.17 and we can probably do a 10-year deal at sub-4%.
Does it really make sense to go issue equity John do you have any other comments on that? No.
You'd have to ask yourself what's the cost of capital of issuing common stock.
There's growth -- I'm sure you're just looking at a cap rate of whatever you think it is trading at.
For example say you're saying it's a 4 cap rate.
But it will probably grow somewhere in the neighborhood of 3.5% 4% on an unlevered basis which in my mind brings the cost of capital issuing common somewhere in the neighborhood of call it 6% to 7% which again when you combine that with a de-levered balance sheet I think our first choice right now is to lever up the balance sheet with debt and fund our acquisitions and development programs with that method first going forward.
That's not to say we won't issue equity for the right transaction.
If the right transaction came along we'd certainly consider issuing equity.
Is there any part of you that's ever thought about actually bringing the leverage of the Company up closer to I would say the REIT average if you will -- so go out and do a multi-billion dollar debt issuance and just do a special dividend and just recapitalize the Company? Is there any thought to that? Not at this time.
Okay.
And then the last follow-up I had I drive by a number of your facilities quite often.
Some of them look beautiful spectacular new shiny and some of them look 30-plus years old.
Some of them have the toll free number on them some of them have the Internet site on them.
Maybe can you talk a little about branding and consistency of branding and how important do you think that is going forward? When I drive by a McDonald's they're usually the same.
I drive by a Public Storage increasingly they're not.
Maybe talk a little bit about how much of an issue that is or is not.
Given our current occupancies I would say it's not too much of an impediment.
The key for the branding are the orange doors and the name Public Storage.
And that is so dominant and so powerful it's just unbelievable.
We can talk for an hour about what it does for us on the Internet customer awareness et cetera.
The point you raise in terms of the dichotomy of our I'll call it property image is certainly true.
One of the things that we've been doing for several years is redeveloping properties.
It's a little harder than you think because in many of those infill locations where you're probably driving by self storage has been zoned out and we can't get the city to even reconsider redeveloping the property because they just as soon it wasn't there.
If you're down in the Florida there's a property down there in Aventura that we redeveloped.
It took us four years to get that done.
So while we'd like to go through and change up the image of the properties and standardize it it's a lot more challenging than on the surface.
And combined with there's a dichotomy in the portfolio because a lot of it's been acquired from other people that built it to different standards or different specs so it's going to look different.
That's also attributable to different zoning regulations.
So even some of the new stuff that we build I think we've got one property where we can't have any orange on it.
Not our choice but that's the zoning regulations.
I think I drove by a blue one the other day.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Rosivach with Goldman Sachs.
Sorry to jump on at the end like this.
A prior question I just want to make sure I heard this correctly that obviously your G&amp;A's been elevated as you mentioned because of the Q because of legal expenses but that the primary case associated with those legal expenses has now been settled? There's a reserve that we made in Q3 for about $3.5 million and it's a tentative settlement.
We have other ongoing litigation.
So I shouldn't presume that's the primary one.
That's not the case? Because it just sounded like you could get some relief in the legal expenses going forward.
The question was will they be lower next year and I said I hope so.
I hope so.
Yes.
That's the other items the $0.02 that's sitting in your FFO? That's correct.
With our final question I'd now like to turn the floor back over to Clem Teng for any additional or closing remarks.
I want to thank everybody for attending our call this morning and we look forward to speaking to you next quarter.
Bye.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Public Storage Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Clem Teng to begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter earnings call.
Here with me today are Ron Havner and John Reyes.
I just wanted to remind everybody that all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this conference call are forward-looking statements subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.
These risks and other factors that could adversely affect our business and future results are described in today's earnings press release and in our reports filed with the SEC.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of today February 17 2016 and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
A reconciliation to GAAP and the non-GAAP financial measures we are providing on this call is included in our earnings press release.
You can find our press release SEC reports and an audio webcast replay of this conference call on our website at www.publicstorage.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ron.
Thank you Clem.
We had a pretty good fourth quarter in 2015.
So we're happy to open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Smedes Rose with Citigroup.
Hi.
Thank you.
My question is just looking at your property manager payroll and supervisory payroll these line items combined came in – it looks like about 1% for the full year in terms of total increases and you guys always do a good job with keeping those payroll numbers fairly low in terms of percentage of increases.
But I do think about 2016 is that sustainable keeping it at that pace or what kind of increases would you expect maybe going forward? Smedes I would say you should probably expect between 2% and 3%.
That high? Yes.
Well I mean you've got the supervisory payroll up the year for 1.9% we relied a few district managers in 2015 so we'll fill in the bench there.
Onsite property manager payroll I'm looking 0.6%.
That will probably be up 1% to 1.5% would be my guess.
Okay.
And then can I just ask you – you did the acquisition activity thus far in the first quarter it looks like almost as much as you did for the full year in 2015.
Can you share maybe what kind of yields you're buying out or maybe any thoughts on kind of just the pricing that you're seeing now versus what you were seeing last year or availability of product? Because it seems like it's accelerated quite a bit from what you have done last year.
Yeah.
I wouldn't read too much into that.
I think last year we were a little light on volume.
Pricing has for the most part gotten away from us.
The transactions that we see – a lot of transactions we see in the marketplace which is it doesn't work in terms of what we're looking or in terms of returns or value per foot.
And that was pretty much the case last year and I would say it's continued into this year.
We get deals here and there.
And so that's why the volumes are $100 million $150 million.
All right.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
Our next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust.
Thank you.
For Ron as you look into next year or this year and next year do you see anything on the horizon that you can point to that would suggest or make that 6% realized rent growth or contract rent growth number you posted this year to slow down at all? Well Ki I've been saying for the last couple of quarters and I think it's true eventually the uptick in new supply number of properties being constructed will have an impact on rental rates or realized rents per foot.
When that takes place I don't know.
Is it back half of this year? Is it 2017 or 2018? I don't know.
The new supply stats are kind of a best guess.
My best guess is we probably got 1 000 to 1 200 properties under construction in the U.S.
And that's probably 2% 2.5% which is close to three times population growth.
The flip side of that is that new supply is not coming in in all markets.
And so the markets with the greater-than-average supply growth unless the population is flowing there will have rental rates impacted sooner rather than later.
But when that takes place I don't know.
It will happen though.
I mean its economics supply and demand.
And so as that supply comes on it will impact our ability to price product.
And you said 2.5% of that coming on line.
How much of that is in your market when you look at it not from areas where you're not in but just where you're competing at? Well the new supply usually comes in in a market where it is easier to build so Texas and Florida.
The bros of New York have had a number of projects under construction for a while big projects.
So I'd focus on those markets in terms of new supply.
The flipside of that is Florida and Texas have great population close to them so they can handle above-average supply growth.
We're not seeing a lot of stuff here in California or really on the West Coast to speak up.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jana Galan with Bank of America.
Hi.
I was wondering if you could talk to kind of just operations during the slower winter months use of concessions and what you saw – and I think I was surprised the occupancy held up stronger than prior fourth quarters.
Hi Jana this is John.
The occupancy continued to hold up we did some television advertising in Q4.
As we did it in Q4 last year.
I don't think it was as effective though as we saw on the prior years.
But nonetheless I think the demand was still there but not as strong as we were hoping.
Our move-in volumes were up about 0.9% and people are moving in at rates that were approximately 4% higher.
But overall I was very pleased I think the demand coming into our systems either through the call center or the websites continues to be strong.
I think our biggest problem right now is really having the available space to rent and to satisfy that demand.
So we'll keep working on that as we move forward.
Demand continues to be strong year-to-date for the first month-and-a-half of this year.
So things still look pretty good right now.
And just in terms of any geographic variance are you still kind of experiencing stronger rent growth and occupancies on the West Coast markets? West Coast is definitely our strongest markets regions.
The Midwest and I would say the Great Lakes markets are probably the weakest right now the Chicago market the Milwaukee market Minneapolis down into St.
Louis.
Florida is doing very well.
Most of Texas is doing well.
The Carolinas also doing well.
We're a little weak in the D.C.
market the Baltimore market.
But other than that most of the other markets are doing pretty good.
Thanks John.
You're welcome.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hi.
Thanks.
Just thinking about fundamentals in the current environment and your operating strategy here in the New Year with the peak leasing season approaching do you think that your customer acquisition costs will continue to improve in 2016? I think last quarter you said you profited $35 per move-in in the first month.
That was net of marketing and discounts and that was a peak since you began tracking that much.
Do you think that you can improve upon that in 2016? Hold on.
We'll get that.
The short answer Todd is yes because I think Street rates will be higher in 2016 than 2015.
We probably won't do as much advertising and we'll be mindful upholding customer volumes so net-net to reduce your marketing cost rates go higher and you hold volumes and the customer profitability will go up.
In Q4 our profit was about $27 per customer versus $19 so we were up 42% in terms of customer profitability in Q4.
For the year we were up about 33%.
Okay.
And then just following up on I think the prior question you said that the TV advertising was not as effective in the fourth quarter.
Any reason why that you can point to explain that? Todd no I can't explain it.
It's one of the things we just never really know how markets are going to react.
It would be weather it could be people busy doing something else not paying attention.
Maybe – we just don't know.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Hey.
Good morning to you guys.
Hey Ross.
Ron can you talk about how the fourth quarter played out to what your expectations were? And in particular as you all know the retailers had a tough calendar fourth quarter because of the warm winter weather so people weren't buying jackets.
But I'd imagine it probably meant that they might have been getting out of their houses more to do things like use self-storage.
Do you think the winter weather played into your favor in the fourth quarter? From a revenue management standpoint I think...
Yeah.
I think...
I think it came in where we thought.
Yeah.
I think we were – there was no surprise Ross in terms of demand into the system the rental rates that we were getting.
A lot of our properties aren't really – still the West Coast is still doing very well which is really driving a lot of this.
And I don't think the West Coast is subject to weather changes as maybe the East Coast is.
And Ross move-in volume in Q4 was up 0.9%.
The move-out volume was up 1.7%.
Recall last year in the fourth quarter pretty harsh winter.
So my guess is people were maybe unable to get out of their storage facilities so maybe that's why we had an uptick in volume.
But we still had positive flows on the insight.
Okay.
Second question.
Can you talk a little bit about to what extent you're using targeted online advertising such as Facebook? And I think about when I travel to Los Angeles right Mark Zuckerberg somehow knows I'm in Los Angeles and starts sending me LA-based business ads.
Are you guys doing that in any fashion and thinking about shifting more of your spend away from TV towards targeted online and embracing that channel a little more? Well I would say this we do spend – we actually spend more money on online advertising either through keywords search bids or banner advertising than we do on television advertising.
Television has really come down in terms of our spend.
Much of our dollars are now being spent on online.
In terms of what you're referring to in terms of using I guess social media to do things we certainly are thinking about things like that.
I don't want to tell you that we are doing things like that at the moment but certainly something that we're constantly exploring thoughts on how we can attract the customer and a better customer actually using the demographic information that we have or can get from some other source to try to attract a better customer.
But I would tell you this.
We're in the very beginning stages of even thinking about doing stuff like that.
Ross to give you some color on television last year we spent about $4.5 million and on the Internet we spent about $13 million.
So the Internet is by far our major marketing channel.
And that's a combination of some of the marketing stuff John has touched on the website and then bidding on various terms and prices across the country.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of George Hoglund with Jefferies.
Yeah.
Hi.
Can you just talk a little bit about G&amp;A costs for 2016 kind of what might be a good run rate and how much of legal cost will be – are you guys assuming for 2016? I'm looking at our GC here and she is smiling and shaking her head.
She doesn't know what legal costs will be.
But we're estimating a ballpark range of between for G&amp;A for the entire fiscal 2016 somewhere in the neighborhood of between $80 million and $90 million.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just one thing on Europe I think you just commented a little bit on Shurgard's performance.
And then also how is development ramping up in Europe? Kind of last quarter you guys had mentioned that they're starting to pick up.
Sure.
Well let me start with development.
Last year we opened three properties in London and we've got three more at various stages of development as well either we've taken down the land or about to take down the land.
We're working through the zoning process.
So all – combine that when that's done we'll be at about 500 000 feet added $90 million invested there.
And we're looking at other market to look to do some development and it's Berlin but we don't have anything in the [indiscernible] the moment.
For Europe Q4 revenues were up 4.7%.
Income was up 1.3%.
They had a fair number of R&amp;M stuff and property tax credit last year that didn't fall through this year so expenses were up a bit.
So it didn't – all the revenue growth didn't flow through to the bottom line.
For the year Europe revenues were up 4.5% and NOI was up 5.5%.
So Europe had a very good year.
Occupancy average for the year 89.8% versus 85.3% last year and minor degradation of rents.
So it was very good year in Europe operationally.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Burke with Green Street Advisors.
Thank you.
Ron a gap in operating ability has always existed between PSA and your private competitors.
In your view has this gap widened or narrowed over the last five years and why? Well since I have no information on private competitors I can't answer that question.
Okay.
And if we can look to a point beyond 2016 just speaking specifically towards PSA in an environment where operating fundamentals have slowed meaningfully what are the main weapons that you'll utilize to continue to capture outsized share demand? Is there anything particular that you have left in the closet right now that hasn't been brought out yet? Well the great thing about Public Storage is we have a thing called the brand which no one else has.
So that is the by far the biggest so to speak bazooka which we're using all the time.
We combine that with the operational skills of our field personnel who are exceptional the Internet marketing the technology all that in a platform.
If you look at how – what market share we have in the major metro markets I mean for the most part we're the dominant provider.
And as I think I've said before when things get tough the big dog eats first and we're the big dog.
Sure.
Thanks.
And you produced 22% NOI growth in your 2013 acquisition bucket during 2015.
Can you provide just in general the early-stage strategy of acquisitions? What do you focus on from a revenue and expense standpoint during year one versus year two versus year three.
Well expenses they fit in to the platform.
So if you have a property in Miami or Dallas or LA they just kind of fold into the district and the operating platform and the expenses become very consistent very quickly with what other properties in that market are operating for – operating out in terms of an expense per foot other than property taxes which is always kind of the swing item on the expense side.
On the revenue side it's fill them up as fast as possible.
Generally discount rates increased promotional discounts fill them up to get them stabilized and get that tenant base in there.
And then operate them consistent with the way we do the rest of the portfolio.
Okay.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Hi.
A couple of things.
First I was wondering can you give us the January 31 spot rates that you typically do the year-over-year rate increase for occupancy et cetera? Sure Mike.
At the end of January occupancies were 93.2% which is 93.0% and our in-place rents were 15.50% versus 14.61%.
So occupancy is up 0.2% in-place rents up 6%.
Got it.
And then...
Street rates were higher.
Okay.
And then for rate increases going out to tenants at this point any color you can share with us? Yeah.
Mike this is John.
We really haven't started sending that increases or we'd be gearing up at the end of this month to really start sending the first wave out.
I anticipate that'll be very similar to the past two years.
People who been here longer than a year will receive an increase and the increases that we've been doing in terms of percentage year-over-year percentage increases have been in the neighborhood of 8% to 10%.
So I expect that we'll continue that in 2016.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks.
You're welcome.
Thanks Mike.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Stender with Wells Fargo.
Thanks.
Just looking at the full-year acquisitions it looks like occupancy were in the 85% range and rental rates were sub 13%.
Can you give us a feel of what those numbers look like at the end of last year and then I know you made some acquisitions so far this year just what the fundamental trends are? I'm sorry Todd what number are you referring to? What were the occupancies of the acquisitions you've made lately and then rentals rates? Just seeing how far they can be pushed once you hold on to them that's where I'm going.
Yeah.
Well most of the acquisitions were David 80% 85%? Yeah.
80% 85% we didn't I don't think we bought anything that's ground up empty.
We got one in Houston that was zero Todd that's a fill up.
But for the most part they're somewhat stabilized properties somewhere between 80% 85%.
Extrapolating what's that going to be versus what is in our press release right because the acquisitions – I'm looking here at the annual contract rate of 1506 that's probably not the way to go because the rate per foot is going to vary by market.
So if you get a property in Ohio it's going to have a very different rental rate than a property in New York.
So you really can't take things and say okay everything's going to migrate to $1 506 a foot.
Generally though once we get them stabilized and up into the platform our ability to push rates consistent with everything else we've said on the call 6% and then rental rate increases pretty much happens.
That's helpful Ron.
And how long is that period for you to stabilize them according to your metrics once you layer in tenant insurance and maybe if concessions start to slow down what does that period look like? Well operationally in terms of fitting them into the system and operating them as a Public Storage property I mean that's usually 30 to 90 days.
The real estate group is great at fixing the offices rebranding the property.
It goes into the system in terms of Internet marketing on the website in the call center on day one.
So you can usually see quickly the impact on moving volumes once it gets into our system.
There's usually problems on delinquency so we have outflow.
But generally six months to a year you get the thing stabilized and then in the second year is when you start to see some meaningful growth.
Recall if you're going to lower rates and increased promotional discounts to fill it up revenues generally going to not – revenue growth is not going to be very strong in the first six months to a year.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of RJ Milligan with Baird.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
I was wondering if you could give any color on the estimated development yields and redevelopment yields on the projects within your pipeline.
Development yields after an imputed absorption cost are going to be somewhere between 8% and 10% on a cash-on-cash basis.
With no absorption it's going to be 150 basis points higher than that.
Develop – we developed – so that's on the development.
The redevelopments can go anywhere from 10% to 30%.
Then as I've said over and over again redevelopments are great because it's low risk you know the property you're not paying for the land again and I wish we could do $1 billion a year of those.
But they're just not that much opportunity.
And in terms of those development yields is there a difference between markets? Are there any markets where the development yields are much more attractive and particularly the high barrier to entry markets or what traditionally has been those high barrier to entry markets? Are you seeing any difference in development yields regionally? Well generally the higher barrier to entry markets are where we're having greater competition for the land and we're having to pay up for the cost so those yields tend to run a little lower than the lower barrier to entry market.
And the way we look at it is okay on a lower barrier to entry market we need a higher yield because it probably won't grow as much as these high barrier to entry market.
That's helpful.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of George Hoglund with Jefferies.
Yeah guys.
Just looking at the balance sheet.
You guys have about $375 million of the Series Q preferred they're callable in April and almost $500 million of the Series R they're callable in July.
I was wondering what the plans are there.
George this is John.
We don't have any definite plans at the moment but I would say that it's pretty likely that we make call one or both of those series but we haven't made the final decision yet on that but I wouldn't put a passage from calling them.
Okay.
And would it be – would you be more inclined to just refi it with more [indiscernible] or do you include some unsecured debt? We could be both.
We did a preferred in January so we're sitting on cash which will cause a little dilution to our assets in Q1 and that was a $300 million deal.
I don't know whether the preferred market will be open throughout the remainder of 2016.
We did mention that we were looking at doing unsecured debt that's still – that is not off the table it's still on the table.
So we could do that also.
So we'll wait and make a decision when we need to.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hey.
It's Jordan Sadler here.
Just a quick question regarding sort of appetite on the acquisition front.
I know you've got some competition out there from some of the smaller competitors.
But just curious there were some that seemed like they'll be a little bit more on your wheelhouse geographically in L.A.
that crossed recently curious if those were on your radar if you had interest and just maybe talk a little bit about your appetite.
Jordan good to hear from you.
We have an appetite for acquisitions.
We tried to be disciplined in our approach in the stuff.
In California we looked at it.
It's a pretty good product we just couldn't get our heads around.
I think that went from about close to 300 a foot and we just couldn't there in terms of that kind of pricing.
But it's good product it's fine.
Okay.
And then on a separate but similar note when you guys make acquisitions I know you give some pretty good disclosure on this but just in terms of breaking your acquisitions from prior years out separately rather than include them in your same-store portfolio.
But what do you view as sort of the potential uplift? In terms of buying something from a private operator you buy something that's maybe not fully stabilized but what maybe a private guy would call somewhat stabilized.
What are you able to sort of pick up in incremental yield on those acquisitions over sort of a one- to two-year timeframe? Well Jordan that depends on a lot of variable factors.
Generally we try to underwrite where we think there's – I'd say on average 150 basis points 200 basis points uptick in terms of NOI over 12 months to 18 months.
One of the things that we overcome in acquisitions is property tax reassessment.
So whereas an operator may have had the property for 20 years he's got a low tax basis we buy it.
Now we've got to pay tax bill so you kind of make that up in your NOI in you growth rate.
But generally 150 basis points to 200 basis points.
The stuff we bought in 2013 and prior and even 2014 is performing better than we anticipated because the industry fundamentals are better than anticipated.
We underwrite things on today's rent in that marketplace.
We don't do a forward forecast of what we think rents might be two or three years out.
And so the fact that the operating fundamentals in the marketplace across most of the U.S.
have been very good in the last 24 months has helped us outperform our own expectations in terms of our last couple of years acquisition as well as our developments.
Our developments are performing across the board better than we anticipated.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And then Todd has one on on-demand.
I know you know that business a little bit.
Yeah.
Hi.
Just quickly on a number of those on-demand storage services that are operating in a few of the major metros.
Are you seeing any impact from them in some of your markets any competition or anything that you can comment on? Well at record occupancies I would say no.
The Bay Area where a lot of that tech stuff we know of a couple of things up there that are going on no impact.
We are chock-full in the Bay Area.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Jordan.
Thanks Todd.
Our next question comes from the line of Wes Golladay with RBC Capital Markets.
Good morning everyone.
Can you provide an update on the development in Glendale? How is that leasing so far? 85% or 90% it's full.
Okay.
What type of yield did you get on that? I guess it looks it's vastly exceeding underwriting.
It will.
It has not been open a year.
So taking the last 10 months of income is not indicative of what that income is going to be over the next 12 months.
But I think we end the road with three-year fill-up pretty good probably even a little bit longer than that.
And so it's far exceeded our expectations.
And the other about that fill-up on the property is we do not have to discount rates.
It's heavily – to get it filled up as we normally do on a typical development.
So it's a homerun.
Okay.
And then when you look at acquisitions how far are you on the final price where [indiscernible]? And with the cost of preferred coming down and cost of equity coming down will more deals make sense now versus say last year? I'm sorry.
I didn't understand the first part of your question Wes.
Okay.
Yeah.
So how far off are you when you look at acquisitions that you're missing on pricing? Are you like 5% away from the final price or is it like 10% to 15%? Just wondering if the improved cost of equity cost of preferred equity will help you pencil more deals in this year.
Yeah.
Well there’s two things.
It's both yield and then price per foot because we have a development platform.
We know about what these things cost to build.
And so even though the yield may kind of fit the current cost of capital you could get – in terms of cost of capital you could get really creative and say well our line cost less than 1% so why don't we use that in terms of underwriting acquisitions which we don't.
But when we're looking at LA properties at 300-foot and we're building in LA at a 150-160 a foot we're just not going to pay 300 a foot.
Okay.
Got you.
Thank you.
There appear to be no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to Clem Teng for any additional or closing remarks.
I want to everybody for participating on our call this morning and we will talk to you next quarter.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.