Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Quanta Services First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Wednesday May 4 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kip Rupp with DRG&amp;L.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you Alicia and welcome everyone to Quanta Services conference call to review our first quarter of 2011 results.
Before I turn the call over to management I have the normal housekeeping details to run through.
If you would like to be on the email or fax distribution list to receive future press releases for Quanta or if you had any technical difficulty this morning and did not receive your email or fax please call our offices at DRG&amp;L at (713) 529-6600.
You can also sign up for email information alerts by going to the Investors &amp; Media section of Quanta Services website at quantaservices.com.
A replay of today's call will be available via webcast on Quanta's website at quantaservices.com.
In addition a telephonic recorded instant replay will be available for the next 7 days 24 hours a day that can be accessed as set forth in the press release.
Please remember that information reported on this call speaks only as of today May 4 2011 and therefore you are advised that any time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate as of the time of any replay of this call.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements intended to qualify under the Safe Harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements include any statements reflecting Quanta's expectations intentions assumptions or beliefs about future events or performance or that do not solely relate to historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements involve certain risks uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict to or are beyond Quanta's control and actual results may differ materially from those expected or implied as forward-looking statements.
Management caution is that you should not place undue reliance on Quanta's forward-looking statements and Quanta does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after this call.
For additional information concerning some of the risks uncertainties and assumptions that could affect Quanta's forward-looking statements please refer to the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and its other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission which may be obtained through the SEC's website at sec.gov.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Colson Quanta's Chairman and CEO.
John? Good morning everyone and welcome to Quanta Services First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
To start the call this morning I will provide a summary of the quarter results with added insight on the impact of current industry circumstances and overall economic conditions.
My comments will be followed by an operational review by Jim O'Neil President and Chief Operating Officer; and a review of financial results by James Haddox Chief Financial Officer.
Following our remarks we'll welcome your questions.
Revenues for the first quarter increased [Audio Gap] is related to permitting and regulatory issues.
This coupled with other items had a significant negative impact on operating income for the quarter.
Our expectation at the time of our fourth quarter conference call was to achieve diluted earnings per share between $0.02 and $0.03.
However we are reporting today a first quarter of 2011 loss of $0.08 per diluted share.
The first quarter shortfall was attributable to the following issues: 2 gas transmission pipeline projects underperformed; 1 project incurred cleanup costs of $10 million more than expected as the project schedule required it to be completed; and unpredictable winter weather.
Restrictive regulations imposed by the Bureau of Land Management compounded this negative outcome.
Another pipeline project was $16 million less profitable than forecasted.
This project had been bid before we owned the company and was delayed 2 years resulting in additional costs which are currently being negotiated under a change order.
A small portion of the project was performed during the fourth quarter of 2010.
However the substantial majority of the work was performed and completed during the first quarter.
The project was located northwest of Edmonton Alberta Canada and was significantly impacted by exceptional snowfall and warm weather as well as complicated directional drilling.
Also construction start delays occurred on 3 major electric power transmission projects: Southern California Edison's Tehachapi project Segment 6 was delayed due to the prolonged permitting process for construction in the Angeles National Forest.
The overhead portion of San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Sunrise PowerLink project and Northeast Utilities Greater Springfield Reliability project were also impacted by similar environmental forbidding delays.
Lastly mostly due to these and other project delays we had higher unallocated equipment costs as transmission equipment remained idle while waiting on these jobs to start.
These costs and delays along with other circumstances resulted in submitted and pending change orders and claims in excess of over $60 million.
Because of existing ongoing negotiations uncertainty regarding the timing of booking these change orders and the potential for additional delays and subsequent costs that could impact the amounts claimed none of the claims are included in our first quarter results.
We expect positive contributions to the future earnings as these negotiations progress throughout the remainder of the year.
Two other issues affected the quarter.
We reorganized the distribution portion of our Natural Gas division to reflect current demand and to effectively meet customer needs.
Severance and other reorganization costs of approximately $2 million were incorporated in the quarter results.
The more majority of which were originally anticipated to occur later in the year.
Additionally we mobilized under our new gas outsourcing agreement with Puget Sound Energy.
This resulted in approximately $2 million of start up costs that will be recouped as the job progresses.
A portion of these costs were originally anticipated to occur later in the year but these costs were nonetheless higher than we anticipated during the first quarter.
Jim will provide additional information on the near and far term expectations of these projects and current timelines.
The U.S.
Chamber of Commerce recently commissioned an economic study of delayed energy projects.
They identified 351 projects that had been delayed due to regulatory inefficiencies permitting delays or NIMBY or "not in my back yard" issues.
Of the 351 projects 30 were electric power transmission projects and more than 40 were related to natural gas and oil projects.
As discussed in our fourth quarter and year end conference call we knew that the first quarter which is seasonally the worst quarter would continue to present a tough operating environment.
At the time of our last call though we did not anticipate that some of our larger projects would continue to be subject to delays.
It is important to note that we believe these are short-term circumstances.
Also as we move forward through the year on numerous Electric Power and Natural Gas contracts we remain as always committed to ensuring acceptable margins.
While we experienced delays at construction starts we believe these are temporary setbacks and not indicative of larger problems.
It remains a commitment by our customers the nation's leading utilities to strengthen the power grid system and integrate renewable resources into the grid.
Our optimism at the second quarter of 2011 will bring increased project activity remains valid for several reasons: Transmission projects will start in 2011 while they have been slower to start than anticipated business backlog is building for later in 2011 and into 2012 and beyond.
Electric Power transmission and distribution spending is expected to increase approximately 14% over the next 2 years according to the Edison Electric Institute.
The first quarter saw a continued momentum behind Texas Competitive Renewable Energy Zone or CREZ transmission build-out.
We expect several additional CREZ utilities field work contracts in the coming weeks.
There has been some stabilization of the housing market with sales of new homes rising 12% in March.
Housing starts are a prerequisite to distribution spending.
Looking to the future industry experts project an increase of power investment over the next several years.
Organizations such as Edison Electric Institute and the North American Electric Reliability Council stand by their projections that investment in reliability and interconnections will increase every year for the next 5 to 10 years.
We believe that Quanta remains the leader in providing electric transmission infrastructure services and that through our commitment to ensuring value for all of our stakeholders while delivering efficient project management and applying our safety leadership capabilities keeps us the leader in the delivery of infrastructure services.
The Pipeline industry remains in somewhat of a holding pattern as politics determine the fate of many large pipeline projects.
Yet our nation seeks to reduce dependence on foreign energy resources.
As we watch gasoline prices rise the focus on exploring and leveraging domestic shale resources is returning.
We continue to see activity increase relative to the CREZ exploration of U.S.
shale formations and the Canadian oil sands and believe we are well-positioned to support the transport of product from these sources.
Our Telecommunications division performed as we anticipated with relatively flat revenues.
We do not anticipate that revenues in this area will begin to -- we do anticipate that revenues in this area will begin to increase in the second quarter with the second half of the year seeing significant project activity as stimulus projects get into full strength.
Jim will provide more details concerning our Telecom segment in his remarks.
Our first quarter was challenging due to 4 Pipeline segment results unallocated idle equipment costs associated with electric transmission delays as well as start up costs and reorganization costs in our Natural Gas Distribution operations.
We expect the second quarter to be a transition period the second half this year to be robust in the Electric Power and Telecom segments.
We anticipate several meaningful electric transmission announcements over the next several weeks and if we are successful these projects will have a significant positive impact on this year's results.
Despite the current challenges we remain optimistic about the long-term outlook for Quanta.
Reflecting this optimism our Board approved a stock purchase program authorizing Quanta [audio gap to purchase up to $100 million of common stock in the open market or otherwise from time to time.
Given our strong balance sheet and substantial free cash flow generated over the last several years we are pleased to have the ability to continue funding our growth strategy while enhancing stockholder returns.
As you know this is my last quarter to address our stakeholders as the CEO of Quanta.
On May 19 I will take on the role of Executive Chairman of Quanta Services.
Jim O'Neil will take on the role of CEO in addition to continuing his role as President.
After 13 years at the helm of Quanta it is time to transition the leadership of the company's day-to-day operations to Jim with whom I've worked with for over a decade.
I have the utmost confidence that the company will be in good hands.
I will continue in a full-time role and will meet with investors from time to time.
I look forward to working with him our executive team and our Board as we further our commitment to delivering value to our investors our customers and our employees.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jim who will present the details of our operations.
Jim? Thank you John and good morning everyone.
In the first quarter of 2011 revenues from our Electric Power segment were approximately $567 million an increase of 24% compared to approximately $457 million in revenue for the first quarter of 2010.
The increase in this segment's revenues was primarily related to the acquisition of Valard.
Excluding Valard's revenues this segment achieved 15% revenue growth for the quarter.
12-month backlog in the Electric Power segment was $1.88 billion at March 31 2011.
This is a 47% increase over 12-month backlog at March 31 2010.
Total backlog was up 19.8% to $4.34 billion at March 31 2011 compared to the same period last year.
We expect Electric Power segment revenues to increase approximately 34% for the full year of 2011 compared to 2010 despite the late starts on 3 major transmission projects this year.
Northeast Utilities expects required permits for the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection for the Greater Springfield Reliability Project to be issued in the third quarter of this year.
This project is the first of 3 major transmission programs for Northeast Utility's portion of the New England East-West Solution or NEEWS project.
This delay has not impacted specialized energized services and limited construction activity is provided to support end-use infrastructure upgrade initiatives throughout their service area.
Southern California Edison anticipates required environmental permits to now be issued in the July time frame at the earliest.
These are primarily the water quality permits for that Tehachapi project Segment 6 which will be constructed in the Angeles National Forest.
We are currently engaged in limited construction activities on this project and construction of Segment 11 is scheduled to start in November of this year.
San Diego Gas &amp; Electric now anticipates required environmental permits for the Sunrise PowerLink project to be issued in September of this year.
We have initiated work on the underground portion of this project.
While certain power transmission projects have been delayed others are moving forward on schedule.
Our work for Central Maine Power Company on the Maine Reliability Project is now moving into the early construction phase.
We currently have about 70 personnel on this project and this project is expected to complete in 2015.
During the first quarter construction continued on National Grid's Rhode Island Reliability Project which is also part of a NEEWS initiative.
This work is focused primarily in North Smithfield and will continue southward.
This project is approximately 20% complete with completion expected in early 2013.
In addition our alliance is performing substation renovation for this project.
Construction remains scheduled to begin this summer on the Rockdale Wisconsin project under our contract with American Transmission Co.
This project includes construction of a new 32-mile 345 000-volt transmission line standing from Rockdale to West Middleton.
For ITC we continue to work on several transmission lines in substation projects in the Michigan and Iowa area.
We have also received notification to construct the 18-mile Hugo-to-Valliant 345 000-volt line in Oklahoma.
In Canada we continue to work on the 108-mile double-circuit 500 000-volt Bruce to Milton transmission reinforcement project for Hydro One which is expected to complete in the summer of 2012.
Looking forward we expect other projects to gain momentum later in 2011.
Our work for CapX2020 should begin in the second half of 2011 and continue into 2015.
CapX2020 is a joint initiative of 11 transmission owning utilities proposing to build infrastructure under what is expected to be the largest transmission expansion in the upper Midwest in 30 years.
We expect to realize revenues of approximately $330 million associated with this project.
We recently finalized the first contract under this agreement.
Construction on the Bemidji to Grand Rapids project is expected to begin in July of this year.
We also expect BC Hydro to announce their construction partner on the Northwest Transmission Line and the interior lower demand online in the next 2 months.
During our fourth quarter conference call we announced that we were awarded contracts for [audio gap] transmission line and substation work for Lone Star Transmission related to the Texas Competitive Renewable Energy Zone or CREZ.
Construction activities are expected to begin in July of this year.
LCRA sales phase to Kendall line is expected to begin construction in the fourth quarter of this year and the Buttes [ph] to Bighill [ph]line in the first quarter of 2012.
In addition we continue to perform smaller CREZ and non-CREZ transmission projects for LCRA throughout this year.
CREZ utilities EPC West and Sharyland are in the final stages of determining their construction partners for the remaining CREZ transmission projects and we expect contract awards in the coming weeks.
Portions of this work are expected to begin later this year.
As we enter into the second half of this year we anticipate a transmission construction market unlike anything the industry has ever experienced.
By the end of this year we should be performing work on no less than 10 major electric transmission projects barring any unforeseen regulatory hurdles or other delays.
We are currently forecasting electric distribution revenues to be flat for the year of 2011 compared to the full year 2010.
Today we have not seen any meaningful indicators that our customers will increase distribution spending this year.
We continue to see momentum in the Renewable Energy portion of our business during the quarter.
Revenues from Renewable Energy Services for the first quarter of 2011 totaled $65 million compared to $27 million during the same period last year.
Of this total Solar accounted for approximately $50 million and Wind Energy accounted for approximately $15 million.
We are scheduled to accomplish our renewable energy goal of $350 million for the full year of 2011.
Recently Lincoln Renewable Energy announced that it has selected Quanta Services subsidiary for the construction of the 10-megawatt Oak Solar facility in New Jersey.
Under this agreement Quanta will provide engineering procurement and construction services as well as operate and maintain the facility once the project is commissioned.
Construction is projected to begin in June with an estimated project completion date of December of 2011.
During the quarter we continued to work under 3 EPC contracts for utility-scale solar installations jointly owned by U.S.
Energy America and NRG Solar.
We expect to substantially complete these projects by the end of the second quarter nearly one month ahead of schedule.
Also during the quarter we continued work on our third utility-scale solar project at the Denver International Airport under our contract with Constellation Energy.
This project is expected to be completed in the second quarter.
We continue to expect double-digit growth in Renewable Energy revenues for the full year of 2011 compared to 2010 with Solar opportunities contributing significantly to the increase.
Although we remain very active in Wind Construction we do not expect significant momentum in this market throughout 2011.
During the quarter revenues from our Natural Gas and Pipeline segment were approximately $177 million.
This compares to approximately $189 million for the first quarter of 2010.
12-month backlog in the Natural Gas segment was $669 million down $300 million or 31% from the same period last year.
Since our fourth quarter conference call our customers have announced very few contract awards.
We remain either short listed as a bidder or are in negotiations on approximately $1.8 billion in pipeline opportunities.
Roughly half of these projects are scheduled to start this year.
These figures do not include TransCanada's Keystone XL project where we were also one of several bidders.
However because we are now in May and we still have limited visibility of future potential awards we are revising the revenue forecast for this segment down approximately 29% for the full year of 2011 compared to 2010.
The transmission pipeline business is inherently volatile.
Our ability to forecast this segment has become increasingly difficult due to the short project cycles large project nature and delays related to increased regulatory requirements including new restrictive rules on government land.
With this said we are well aware of these challenges and are working to minimize the volatility of this segment as well as improve our forecasting process.
We remain very bullish on the pipeline business over the medium and long term.
We continue to see robust drilling activity in certain unconventional shale formations.
Additionally as all prices continue to remain substantially above $78 a barrel activity in the Canadian oil sands is gaining momentum.
The Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration or PHMSA is implementing more stringent pipeline integrity requirements that should also create pipeline replacement programs throughout the United States.
We believe Quanta is well-positioned throughout Canada and the United States to capitalize on new and existing pipeline infrastructure and related facility upgrades.
We continue to be optimistic that we will be awarded a meaningful project opportunity that would generate revenue this year.
We expect pipeline activity to increase significantly in 2012 especially if the Keystone XL project receives regulatory approval.
This project alone is expected to absorb almost half of the industry's construction capacity.
During the quarter we initiated work under our new 5-year contract with Puget Sound Energy for a Natural Gas construction and maintenance services across the utility's 6-county service area.
This contract is expected to produce approximately $400 million in revenue during its 5-year term.
In the first quarter of 2011 revenues from our Telecommunications segment were approximately $79  million compared to $78 million in the first quarter of 2010 a relatively flat revenue growth for the quarter.
Total backlog in this segment increased approximately 82% to $534 million at March 31 2011 compared to March 31 2010.
Although the first quarter results from the Telecom segment were seasonally challenged we expect revenues for the full year of 2011 to increase 20% to 25% compared to 2010 with significantly improved margins.
The majority of this increase should occur in the second half of this year with the increase attributable primarily to stimulus projects 4G network upgrades and fibers to the cell site build-outs by carriers.
Our optimism is influenced partly by the growth in mobile and intelligent devices and the robust networks that support them.
Mobile devices are projected to outnumber laptops and computers in only 2 years which is expected to drive the global wireless connections to increase to $50 billion by 2020 and the carriers are reacting.
Verizon recently indicated that it expects to deploy LTE services to 175 markets by year end.
Our in-site plant and wireless groups are experiencing an increase in demand for their services.
Since the close of the first quarter we have been awarded a project with an original equipment manufacturer or OEM to provide engineering procurement installation and turn-up and test services to over 3 600 cell sites in support of that fiber-to-the-cell site contract for an incumbent local exchange carrier.
This project is not currently included in our backlog due to the timing of the award.
During the quarter we also initiated engineering and other preconstruction activities for our KINBER a Keystone Initiative for Network Based Education and Research under our largest single stimulus award.
Under this contract we are providing engineering and construction for a 1 600-mile fiber range throughout 39 counties in Pennsylvania.
In the first quarter of 2011 revenues from our Fiber Optic Licensing segment were approximately $26 million.
This compares to approximately $24 million in revenue for the first quarter of 2010.
We expect strong revenue growth in this segment based on a robust order environment for the second half of this year.
For example during the 2010 E-Rate season ending in March of this year we realized a substantial increase in new contract orders compared to the 2008 and 2009 E-Rate seasons which will drive revenue growth later this year and into next year.
In addition we continue to see meaningful growth in the carrier vertical driven by increased bandwidth demands both wireline and wireless.
In summary we continue to see momentum related to electric power transmission contract awards renewables and telecommunications spending.
This momentum should start building late in the second quarter and into the second half of this year.
Revenue growth on our Electric Power and Telecommunications segments should offset the revenue decline in our Natural Gas and Pipeline segment if backlog does not materialize for this year.
Despite a very disappointing first quarter we believe our overall business in the industries we serve are on the verge of substantial growth and exceptional margins.
Now I will turn the call over to James Haddox our CFO.
Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
Today we announced revenues of $849 million for the first quarter of 2011 compared to $748.3 million in the prior year's first quarter reflecting growth of approximately 13.5% quarter-over-quarter.
The net loss attributable to common stock for the quarter was $17.6 million or a loss of $0.08 per diluted share.
The growth in consolidated revenues in 1Q '11 was driven primarily by an increase in revenue from our Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment up 24% quarter-over-quarter.
A portion of this growth resulted from an acquisition during the fourth quarter of 2010.
However excluding the acquisition the Electric Power segment's revenues would have grown 14.9% quarter-over-quarter.
This revenue increase is partially offset by decreased revenues from our Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment of 6.4%.
Our consolidated gross margin declined from 17.3% in 1Q '10 to 8.4% in 1Q '11.
The decrease is primarily due to the impact of operating losses incurred by the Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment which John previously discussed.
Selling general and administrative expenses increased $10.5 million to $91.5 million as compared to last year's first quarter.
We completed a major acquisition during the fourth quarter of 2010 which resulted in an increase in G&amp;A expenses of $2.1 million quarter-over-quarter.
Selling general and administrative expenses also increased as a result of increased salaries and benefits costs of approximately $6.3 million associated with additional personnel and salary increases and includes $1.7 million in severance costs associated with the reorganization of certain of our gas operations.
In addition we had increased legal costs of approximately $1.0 million associated with ongoing litigation during the first quarter of 2011.
Selling general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues remained consistent at 10.8%.
Our consolidated operating margin before amortization expense decreased from 6.5% in 1Q '10 to a negative 2.4% in 1Q 2011 as a result of the lower gross margins.
Amortization of intangible assets increased from $5.8 million in 1Q '10 to $6.3 million in 1Q '11 due to the increase in amortization related to intangibles associated with the acquisition we completed in the 4Q of '10 partially offset by the runoff of amortization related to backlog intangible assets recorded from our prior acquisitions.
Drilling further down into the details of our results by segment Electric Power segment revenues were up about $109.6 million quarter-over-quarter or about 24%.
Revenues were favorably impacted by $41.6 million in revenues from the acquisition of Valard which was acquired during the fourth quarter of 2010.
The remaining increase was due primarily to higher revenues from renewable projects and an increase in other Electric Power Infrastructure Services primarily due to increased spending by our customers.
Emergency restoration revenues decreased $36.4 million to $16.5 million in the first quarter of 2011 partially offsetting the increased revenues and other Electric Power Service lines.
The operating margin in the Electric Power segment was 5.5% in the first quarter compared to 8.7% in the last year's first quarter primarily due to the lower revenues from Emergency Restoration Services which typically generate higher margins.
A more competitive pricing environment for our distribution services and higher margins associated with the closeout of certain electric transmission projects during 2010 as compared to electric transmission projects at earlier stages in 2011 which include contingencies.
Margins in the first quarter of '11 were also negatively affected by idle equipment costs associated with the delayed projects previously discussed.
Our Natural Gas and Pipeline segment revenues decreased quarter-over-quarter approximately 6.4% to about $176.8 million in 1Q '11 primarily due to the timing of project awards.
Operating margins in the Natural Gas and Pipeline segment was a negative 20.9% in 1Q '11 compared to a positive 9.7% in 1Q '10.
These decreases are primarily due to cost overruns on 2 projects severance costs and upfront mobilization costs in our Gas division as John previously discussed.
Revenues from our Telecommunications segment increased approximately $1.2 million or 1.5% to approximately $79.4 million in 1Q of '11.
Operating margins in the Telecommunications segment were negative 4.5% in 1Q '11 compared to a negative 1.0% in 1Q '10.
This decrease in margin is the result of decreases in the body of work associated with long-haul installations that was replaced with lower margin fiber-to-the-premise build-out initiatives during the current period and adverse weather conditions experienced in the northern U.S.
Fiber Optic Licensing segment revenues were approximately $26.3 million for the first quarter of 2011 or an increase of about 8.1% as the results of our continued investment in fiber optic network expansion and the associated revenues from licensing the right to use point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications facilities.
Operating margins in the Fiber Optic Licensing segment were 45.8% in 1Q '11 which is lower than operating margins of 49.9% in 1Q '10 primarily due to higher selling and marketing expenses in this segment.
When discussing operating margins by segment we do not allocate certain selling general and administrative expenses and amortization expense to our segments.
Therefore the previous discussion about operating margins by segment excludes the effects of such expenses.
Corporate and unallocated costs increased about $2.4 million to $29.7 million in the first quarter of 2011 as compared to 1Q 2010 primarily due to higher salaries and benefits costs of approximately $2.2 million associated with additional personnel and salary increases.
The net loss attributable to common stock for the quarter was $17.6 million or a loss of $0.08 per diluted share.
Net income attributable to common stock in 1Q '10 was $23.7 million or $0.11 per diluted share.
The adjusted diluted loss per share as calculated in today's press release was $0.05 for the first quarter of 2011 as compared to adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.15 for 1Q '10.
Cash flow used in operations less net capital expenditures of about $34 million resulted in approximately $39 million in negative free cash flow for the quarter.
The negative free cash flow during the first quarter of 2011 was primarily due to the operating losses incurred during the first quarter of 2011.
This compares to the prior year's first quarter which had a negative free cash flow of $39.2 million.
EBITA for the first quarter of 2011 was a negative $20.7 million or negative 2.4% of revenues compared to about $48.1 million or 6.4% of revenues for the first quarter of 2010.
Adjusted EBITDA was about $11.7 million for the first quarter of 2011 compared to $80.7 million for the first quarter of 2010.
Our days sales outstanding or DSOs were 84 days at March 31 of 2011 versus 68 days at December 31 of 2010 and 80 days at March 31 of 2011 an increase due to the timing of milestone payments on major projects.
The calculation of EBITA and EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA all non-GAAP measures and the definitions of these and of DSOs can be found on the Investors &amp; Media section of our website at quantaservices.com.
At the end of the quarter we had about $503 million in cash.
We also had $188 million in letters of credit outstanding under our $475 million credit facility primarily to secure our insurance program with no outstanding loans leaving $287 million of availability.
The combination of our cash balance and availability under our credit facility gave us about $790 million in total liquidity as of March 31 2011.
Concerning our outlook for the future our estimate for 2Q '11 EPS based on revenues of between $925 million and $975 million is $0.14 to $0.16 per diluted share on a GAAP basis.
This estimate compares to $0.16 in GAAP EPS in 2Q of '10.
Our GAAP EPS forecast for 2Q '11 includes an estimate of $15.2 million for non-cash compensation expenses and amortization expenses.
Excluding these expenses our non-GAAP adjusted diluted earnings per share for the quarter is expected to be $0.18 to $0.20.
Our estimate for 2011 EPS based on revenues of between $4.1 billion and $4.4 billion is $0.65 to $0.80 per diluted share on a GAAP basis.
This estimate compares to $0.72 in GAAP EPS in 2010.
Our GAAP EPS forecast for 2011 includes an estimate of $50 million for non-cash compensation expenses and amortization expenses.
Excluding these expenses our non-GAAP adjusted diluted earnings per share for 2011 are expected to be $0.80 to $0.95.
We're currently forecasting net income attributable to noncontrolling interest to be approximately $2 million in the second quarter of 2011 and $9.6 million for the whole year.
This ramp-up over 2010 is due to increases of work on existing joint venture projects as well as increased amounts associated with our contract with Central Maine Power.
For additional guidance we're currently projecting our GAAP tax rate to be approximately 39.5% to 40.5% for 2011 and we expect our diluted share count to be about 215 million shares for 2011.
We expect CapEx for all of 2011 to be approximately $180 million to $210 million which includes CapEx for our Fiber Licensing segment of about $35 million.
This compares to CapEx for all of 2010 in total of about $150 million.
This concludes our formal presentation.
And we'll now open the line for Q&amp;A.
Operator? Couple of questions because I know I only have one follow-up.
You mentioned on your prepared commentary that you expect some CREZ awards to come in potentially over the next few weeks and they could contribute significantly to 2011.
I would like to know how much of this you've built into guidance and how much it will be potential upside if it does come true? And then as a follow-up obviously on the Pipeline business if you could give us some visibility on really how contained all these losses are give us comfort around that to the extent that you've been through your other projects and do not see similar project issues coming up.
And really in retrospect really looking at the Pipeline business and putting into perspective for us whether this has been a wise acquisition for you.
This is Jim.
In regard to the CREZ awards we do expect the remaining CREZ utilities to make announcements of their construction partner in the coming weeks and we have baked our expectations for those awards on what we would win into our guidance for the year.
In regards to Pipeline the 2 projects that we had the losses on they are fully contained.
The one that was in the Dakota area that's been finished.
The cleanup has been finished and settled and everything is done other than the change orders that we're pursuing and as well as the project in Canada.
That project is completed other than the change orders that we're pursuing there as well.
This is John.
About the Pipeline business it's a very good business.
I think we've been -- we have some reasons to think that we should improve our forecasting ability on that business.
We know there's volatility in this business.
We are trying to improve our forecasting and trying also to take some of the volatility of that business by taking on more maintenance work cathodic protection more recurring revenues in that portion of the business to take some of that project volatility out.
I believe just off the top of my head that we've owned the company about 6 quarters and during those 6 quarters they'd brought in about $160 million of  EBITD and we paid about $350 million for them.
So even in the very difficult times it's been a very good acquisition.
But those 2 projects by the way if we get a reasonable amount of the change orders that we've asked for one of those projects will break even and one will actually make some money.
So they're not terrible projects but they were certainly underestimated by us in what they were going to do for the quarter.
Got it.
And I guess as a follow-up could you talk about your cash allocation going forward? Obviously a buyback is sort of welcome and would love to get a sense of whether you could potentially expand that or whether you see good opportunities.
You cut out on the middle of that question.
What was the last part of the question? Opportunities in terms of other acquisitions.
Yes we've still got opportunities for acquisitions and for increased needs for working capital based on what we're seeing in pending or potential contracts awards.
So we still have use for our capital both on the acquisition side for funding working capital and potentially for doing some interim financing or project financing in the future.
So I'll ask them all at once here.
The other transmission projects you've won like CapX2020 CREZ work are there any stealth permitting issues that could creep up on us like the Tehachapi around the expected start-up dates? And is any of that or anything else that's not permitted included in your 2011 guidance at this point? And then separate from that but within T&amp;D if things were -- started to break your way a little bit here what would industry utilization look like over the next 12 months and how tight can it get? Can you compare it to maybe some past periods? Will on the permitting question I believe -- and this could change obviously but from what we're hearing from our customers the only projects that are having permitting delays are the ones that we mentioned.
The other projects are moving forward on schedule.
And then industry capacity is already tight and it's going to get even tighter obviously as we enter into the second half of the year.
I mean we're going to be on a minimum of 10 major transmission projects at the end of the year just ourselves.
So the industry as I would say is near capacity right now on transmission projects as the industry construction resources mobilize on our projects throughout the country and in Canada and it's going to be very very tight which is good for us.
We like that.
We feel like we have the resources required to pursue not only the opportunities the many opportunities we have in hand but to pursue future opportunities that we expect to be awarded between now and the end of the year and into next year.
But CapX2020 those projects you don't see any potential permitting issues? Have you talked to the utilities today or the operators that they have all the permits in hand that they need to begin construction or are we still waiting on any? I think that there's always potential for delays in any of these projects.
However whenever you're crossing BLM forest service lands or government lands of any nature the opportunity for more delays is higher than when you're crossing normal lands.
You do have the factor of NIMBY not in my backyard that you have to face with CapX2020 and I'm sure there will be some delays in some projects but the odds increase tremendously when you're crossing federal lands or state lands or government lands as well.
This is Brian Shore in for Dan.
If you could talk about the $60 million that you talked about in change orders kind of talk about any of the potential timing there and B whether this is included in the guidance or it presents upside looking forward? Yes.
This is James.
It does present some potential upside.
The change orders that we're pursuing the timing of that we expect that we will get those resolved sometime during the next 3 to 6 months maybe sooner rather than later.
But it's hard to give you the magnitude of what might turn into profits because some of these would be recognized over -- under percentage completion accounting would be recognized under the remaining portion of the contract once it's settled.
Some of them change orders that we're pursuing on contracts that have already gotten completed would flow through our income statement as the change orders are approved.
I think that in the last 9 months of this year's kind of spread out across the quarters we've got somewhere between $8 million to $10 million of estimated change orders that should affect our P&amp;L.
And that number could go up but it's hard to predict it because it's subject to negotiation of the change orders and determination of which contracts they apply to and whether it should be accounted for under PLC accounting.
Just so I'm clear the $8 million to $10 million that's within the $60 million? Yes.
Okay.
And then just second can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in the Telecom segment? Obviously you guys have grown backlog pretty tremendously driven by stimulus.
Is there still more out there to go get? And just kind of what you're seeing initially as some of that starts to flow but really looking forward to the back half of the year.
I mean what are your expectations about the potential upside there? Well we have more visibility probably in Telecom than any of the other segments because we were involved in helping our customers pursue stimulus money and we've engineered many of these projects.
So we've got good visibility in the Telecom.
We think that we've seen maybe half of the opportunities right now.
Before -- between now and the end of the year we should expect more awards that are meaningful.
But what we have baked into our forecast right now and the significant growth is what we know we have in hand today.
And the acceleration of that we will see in constructing those projects in the second half of this year.
But there will be more to add to backlog as we move through the year.
It's actually Peter Chang in for Jamie.
My first question is on the Electric Transmission.
It's back to the guidance question.
First of all do you have an expectation of a BC Hydro win in the back half of your year? And then I don't know if you could quantify sort of how much from CapX2020 and Lone Star that you actually have in guidance in the event that maybe there is or is not a permitting issue in the future.
Yes.
Peter we need to be careful on any future awards.
Our customers are very sensitive to that.
We're shortlisted on both of the BC Hydro projects both the Northwest Transmission and the ILM line and we should hear about announcements here over the next month or maybe a little bit longer.
In regards to our CapX2020 there's very little revenue baked in this year probably $20 million to $30 million for the line that we're expected to start this year.
Most of that revenue will be captured in outside of -- in '12 and beyond.
As far as Lone Star Lone Star is going to start in July.
It has a completion date of 2012 so a significant part of that revenue can be generated this year.
We've been asked not to disclose that amount that contract amount by our customer but it's certainly a nice-sized project that warrants an announcement it's over $100 million for sure for certain.
Fair enough.
My follow-up question or my other question would be on the Pipeline business.
Given sort of the depressed nature of that business in 2011 are you seeing very competitive bids out there on the $1.8 billion in bids outstanding? How should we think about pricing for 2012 and later on some of these projects? Or do you think because it's a large number of bids that pricing is actually -- could be a positive? I'm being commended to remain disciplined on pricing.
The bidding environment is no different than it has been in past years -- you're going to have those contractors that would go take the work cheaper than what we would pursue.
So we're actually very excited about the Pipeline outlook.
We just feel that we needed to take our projections back for this year since we are in May but those opportunities still exist.
We think that the Pipeline construction capacity is going to tighten significantly going into '12 and that'll be very good for pricing as we move into next year.
Sticking with gas I was hoping you might provide a little bit more color on the bidding season.
Obviously your 12 months backlog is down and your total backlog in the business is up.
And I think it builds seasonally during this time of year.
So I was hoping you might be able to help us look through the seasonality really understand how the bidding season came in relative to your expectations.
And secondly given your comments about KeystoneXL and its implications for '12 how important is that job specifically in terms of assessing growth in the business next year and beyond? Well I think typically in a typical year you do have seasonality in gas and you would expect that backlog.
You wouldn't have much backlog for the remainder of any year.
But '12 is going to be such a robust year that we should build 12-month backlog as we go through this year for 2012 work.
As far as Keystone and its implications to us I think the point we were trying to make is that if Keystone goes that the industry capacity is going to be tightened significantly because that project alone will take up half the construction capacity which will be good for pricing in the industry.
We have been shortlisted on that job but as far as the meaningfulness of that job to us we're looking at $1.8 billion worth of projects outside of that Keystone project.
So I think we're pretty [Audio Gap] [Technical Difficulties] As my follow-up question regarding the share buyback announcement can you talk about the meaningfulness of that how that came about and maybe whether that has any -- whether it says anything about the M&amp;A pipeline? I guess your general thoughts on uses of cash flow given the introduction of buyback here this morning.
We through these past several years have had strong cash flow.
And we anticipate going forward we will as well.
And looking at things our acquisition pipeline is robust and our need for working capital is robust.
But having taken that into consideration we still think there's enough cash to do a stock buyback at this time.
I wanted to ask for a little bit more color around the change orders out there and just clarify previous comments about the $10 million in the pipeline segment from cleanup costs and the $15 million from forecast profitability if that was something you're specifically requesting in the negotiations.
But more precisely on the change orders if you could discuss -- maybe a little bit of color on who the counterparties are in a couple of these jobs? And the process to complete the negotiation process is there some sort of arbitration that has to happen? Does anything have to go before a utility commissions for you to actually get payment? And if you could mention maybe your experience in recovering change orders in the past.
Certainly.
When I talk about the $60 million we've already reduced the number of somewhat for expectations of our winning those change order discussions.
We do not like to sue our customers.
But of course court is always an option in the end if we can't come to satisfactory negotiation.
I wouldn't want to disclose the amounts or the customers' names on any of those change orders as we're in negotiations.
And obviously they're very sensitive.
Many of these are related from delays that weren't their fault.
They certainly weren't our fault.
But they're trying to enhance their shareholder value as we are trying to enhance ours.
And most of these discussions are not adversarial.
They're a matter of who's going to accept the responsibility for these delays and these problems that are -- were unanticipated of course by our customer.
But they were also unanticipated by us.
Some of them related to delays for permitting.
Some of them were new interpretations of old rules by current government officials more stringent rules.
And so they're friendly discussions generally and not very adversarial and we've already discounted them.
When we say $60 million it's -- obviously there's more than that in discussions.
So we've already discounted them somewhat.
But it's impossible to predict how much of that $60 million we will get as negotiations go on and the timing of it is difficult because some of these projects are continuing to be delayed and we'll have additional cost overruns to look at.
And as my follow-up in the Gas Services segment the losses of $37 million in the quarter segment operating losses of $37 million can you give us a little bit more color on aside from the 2 items that you mentioned the proportionate contribution of whether any other factors in this performance below prior expectations? [Audio Gap] [Technical Difficulties] Remember the question? Yes I think some more color on the Gas segment losses.
I think the 2 jobs accounted for approximately $26 million.
We had some reorganization charges that cost $2 million.
We have the start-up cost on the Puget Sound gas contract of $2 million.
And then the rest is just under allocated equipment in our Gas Transmission segment because we just don't have the work going on that we expected for the year and for the quarter.
So I think that's really a summary.
That's what contributed to the loss for the quarter.
I think I've asked this before.
The delays in the project awards in the gas pipelines some oil pipelines do you have any sort of a feeling yet as to why the delays at this point on those pipelines? A lot of them seem to be needed to move -- building volumes of gas and oil out of the shales.
What's going on with the customers? It's really not the customers Jeff.
It relates to government approvals.
The projects that are inside a state are typically not being delayed.
It's projects that go across state boundaries and projects that cross federal lands are the ones that have difficulty.
And it's a new interpretation of the role of the Federal Government in monitoring and in environmental studies and those kinds of things that are causing the delays for our customers.
And on the project delays in Electric Transmission on projects that you've won you're looking for very strong revenues for the year for 2011.
And when I looked at it it looks like maybe you've built in some acceleration of work and it's kind of hard to tell to catch up.
Is this accurate or is this kind of second half you're delayed 2 or 3 months and everything kind of -- the whole schedule pushes out 2 or 3 months where you have accelerated activity to produce a stronger second half than what you originally planned? I don't think we're building any acceleration in on any particular project Jeff.
I think it's that we're starting more projects.
Right now we've just recently -- the first quarter we had one project that was in full construction.
Now we have 2 in full construction.
And we're going to ramp up to where we have 10 in full construction by the end of the year at least 10.
So I think it's more a function of that we're starting to mobilize on contract awards into the construction phase.
We'll have significantly more activity in the second half of the year compared to the first half of the year or even last year at this time.
And really we wouldn't anticipate an acceleration of those projects until those projects start and we find out exactly when they do start.
I think we will see some acceleration on those projects but we haven't built that in.
As Jim says most of the higher revenues are due to more projects starting.
I do expect that some of our customers are going to have to accelerate.
Some of them have already committed to completion dates and some of them have started construction on other portions of the project.
So I expect there will be acceleration but we're not building that in to our guidance at this time.
Is your expectation that the Pipeline segment will be profitable in Q2? That's the projections there James I think so.
Depending of course on the amount of revenues that start.
The Pipeline projects are profitable as far as they go individually.
It's the amount of volume.
Looking forward in second quarter is there going to be sufficient volumes to carry the equipment allocations overheads and so forth by the various companies? Yes.
Projection is that they will be profitable in Q2 yes.
We have more than just pipeline transmission in our Gas segment.
We're doing a lot of pipeline rehabilitation work and other MSA work the Puget Sound contract.
So that segment we do expect it to be profitable in the second quarter.
Great.
And when can you guys start buying back stock? Well technically the program starts after our blackout period closes which is 2 days after we announce our earnings.
So that makes May the start date for the program.
And then we're subject to -- Yes May 9.
And then we're subject to normal insider trading restrictions as a company just like we are officers of the company.
So anytime that we have information that's not -- material nonpublic information the company can't go into the program.
But the program starts on Monday May 9 under our current policy.
Year-over-year the operating profit inside the Pipeline business appeared to decline about $55 million of which you identified $30 million coming from project losses the reorg and Puget Sound.
And I suspect since revenues declined $12 million year-over-year that the unallocated equipment expense is probably another $10 million or $11 billion so that gets you to about $40 million of a year-over-year decline in the operating profit.
How do we bridge the gap between that $40 million that we just identified and the $55 million that was reported? I think that what you see Alex is timing.
I can think of one thing off the top of my head that could affect it and that's timing of some of the change orders that we're talking about.
Because when we came into last year I think we probably had some change orders rolling forward that we were negotiating which would've had an effect a positive effect on profits in the first quarter of last year coming out of the cleanup of several jobs and determining the magnitude of the change orders which couldn't be booked at year end because we were in the same position at year end last year that we're in at the end of the first quarter of this year.
We also had quite a nice project going on in Alaska last first quarter that's different than this first quarter.
And then a quick follow-up if I may.
Could you quantify the revenues implied in your full year 2011 guidance from CREZ projects and others that have not yet been awarded? And also provide a little bit more color with regards to the very significant growth in Telecom backlog of 35% sequentially in year-over-year and 60% to 80% year-over-year? I think that we don't necessarily have CREZ.
What we have in our projections is where our revenues are higher than our committed backlog.
And so projects that we put in there are not identified specifically as a CREZ project or a BC Hydro project or an AEP project.
We know we'll get some of those projects or a pipeline project or a Telecom project.
We'll know we'll get some of the projects we're bidding.
Based on the volume we adjust our expectations.
And if we have higher success obviously we'll have more revenues.
Lower success we'll have lower revenues.
But there's a number of CREZ projects.
We expect to get our share of those projects and part of that is what we call in forecasting as uncommitted work.
And that's one of the reasons that we got a fairly wide range that we've given you guys for both revenues and earnings for the rest of the year.
It's because of the timing and probability of awards of some of those CREZ projects.
To answer your Telecom question Alex we got great visibility into our Telecom forecast.
The thing is it's a lot of $5 million $7 million $10 million projects so it's hard to quantify without stating what the announcements are because it's just a whole bunch of small projects but we do have good visibility into that work.
Alex this is Ken.
Just to give you an idea it's coming from several areas.
Probably the largest single area is stimulus construction then fiber to the backhaul to the sell sides is another big piece.
Stimulus engineering is a big part of it.
And then some wireless stuff.
It's also related to fiber backhaul but it's the piece that takes place at the sell sides.
So those are the kind of high-level sources of the backlog growth.
Could you talk a little bit I mean if go -- about margin expectations for these businesses or these segments a little longer term specifically on the Electric Power over the last number of years.
It's kind of been low-double digits.
Gas business is kind of I mean all over the place.
But what is your long term thoughts on reasonable margins for these businesses? We expect that the margins in all of these businesses can and should be in the double-digit level when there is sufficient volume in that business and they're not in a depressed or recessionary time.
But when our customer spending is normal or better than normal they should be operating income in the double-digit level in all 3  segments -- 4 segments.
And John on the Electric Power side of it is there a big difference between the distribution in the Transmission business as you see it now in terms of margins? Or with equipment I mean in organizational overlap is it just -- are they closer to the same? No there are significant differences today between Transmission and Distribution.
Distribution quite a bit lower margin because there's just not enough volume there to support the higher margins.
A lot of that work is inherently lower margin because it's maintenance work that's done on a cost-plus basis.
So there's lower risk therefore lower margins in any case.
Where the transmission work typically is some type of fixed price and therefore incurs higher margins because it's higher risk.
And of course you have to harvest those margins as we all know.
I'm just trying to figure out kind of the implied margin for the rest of the year given your sales and operating guidance -- excuse me EPS guidance.
I think in the last call you said you'd be in that kind of 9% at 12% operating margin each quarter except the first quarter.
But looking out across the balance of the year it seems like your guidance would imply something around 10% for kind of average operating margin across the remainder of the year.
Is that about right? Yes that's about right.
Depending on which side of the range you use I think the number the implied number if you're on the low end is about 8.9% or something like that and the implied margin on the high-end is about 10%.
And I guess just looking back historically there hasn't really been a quarter where you've printed that kind of margin going back for a while.
And it would seem with the Pipeline segment challenge it would really fall on the Electric Power segment to really produce some strong results to hit that margin target.
Is that a fair way to think about it? That's fair but also don't forget Telecom is coming on very strong as well.
And of course the Pipeline business has opportunities as we've reiterated that time and again.
But we're certainly more bullish on the Electric Power margins and Telecom margins.
But the Pipeline segment has the opportunity [inaudible].
Can we go into the Nat Gas project area? You gave reference to 10 full-line construction projects on the Electrical Power.
How many would you say that you're gunning for for '11? And I guess that's my first question.
And second can you give us an idea of where the MSAs or aftermarket activity falls within this segment as percent of revenue? And then let's take that further throughout all your segments.
Where does your MSAs or aftermarket as a percent fall within each segment? That's a lot of questions.
Let's try to break them down just a little bit.
Most of the projects -- I think Jim said that there were some $800 million worth of projects that we have bid that we are either shortlisted on or we're negotiating that would start in 2011.
That's a multitude of projects.
I don't think we have the time today to talk about and I don't have the information in front of me of where those projects exactly are but you can bet that a lot of them are in the Marcellus and in the Eagle Ford shales.
Those formations require fairly large pipe -- but particularly the Marcellus is very difficult terrain and is very much our sweet spot because they are very difficult projects and very difficult terrain.
A third of the opportunities are related to Canadian oil sands and those opportunities in that $800 million could start this year as well.
We're looking at starts anywhere from June to July to some fourth quarter starts in the Pipeline business in that $800 million.
Probably half of those projects would complete this year and half of them will start in the fourth quarter and go into next year.
I think when you talk about MSAs we do have MSA work in the Gas segment.
Probably I would guess $200 million to $300 million of the work that we have is the MSA work.
We have work in Canada and Alaska that's year-round MSA work as well as work through our pipeline integrity group that we're doing as well.
So I think that pretty much answers the questions that you asked Bill.
What about the Telecom sectors can you provide the MSA activity there? Yes.
About 30% of the revenue in Telecom is MSA work.
My follow-up was answered so thank you.
Yes.
Just going back to the gas pipeline and you mentioned weather -- it would probably make me comfortable to hear you talk about why weather is something that you think you can pursue through change orders.
And is that a constant feature of a lot of your contracts or was that unique to this contract? I think that when there are delays that puts you in more difficult weather patterns it's subject to delay.
If the projects were not delayed obviously you take the weather risk in your project bid.
So it was timing delay that pushed you into different weather patterns than you had assumed when you had bid these projects originally? Yes.
The Canadian project had to be done in the winter time but the real issue there is that the weather was cold and so we built ice bridges.
And then it warmed up unseasonably and forced out our ice bridges and then we had to go back after it got cold again and put the ice bridges back in.
That was a major part of that Canadian project.
We knew it was going to be a winter time project.
Obviously you know it's going to be cold.
But when it warmed up that's unusual for Canada and then of course the snow.
And if we'd have done it the same time the year before we wouldn't have had those issues.
The other project was pushed from late summer and fall weather into winter weather completion.
Snow impacted it.
And then on pipeline integrity how material can that be? It's kind of a catch 22 here that regulation is hurting you but regulation might help you.
Just wondering how big can pipeline integrity in some of these new regulations coming out possibly create a positive driver for the business? Yes I think -- well that could be a huge opportunity for not only our company but the industry.
I mean it's pipeline and our customers are going to have to go through the more stringent inspection requirements that are going to require both our inspection services as well as our rehabilitation services.
So it's a big opportunity going forward.
Just again I'd like to thank you for your participation in our first quarter conference call.
We appreciate your questions and your ongoing interest in Quanta Services.
Thank you very much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by and welcome to the Quanta Services First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this call is being recorded today May 3 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Kip Rupp VP of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you Craig and welcome everyone to the Quanta Services conference call to review first quarter 2012 results.
Before I turn the call over to management I have the normal housekeeping details to run through.
If you would like to have Quanta news releases and other information e-mailed to you when they occur please sign up for the e-mail information alerts by going to the Investors &amp; Media section of Quanta Services' website at quantaservices.com.
A replay of today's call will be available on Quanta's website at quantaservices.com.
In addition a telephonic recorded instant replay will be available for the next 7 days 24 hours a day.
That can be accessed as set forth in the press release.
Please remember that information reported on this call speaks only as of today May 3 2012 and therefore you're advised that any time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate as of the time of any replay of this call.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements intended to qualify under the Safe Harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements include all statements reflecting Quanta's expectations intentions assumptions or beliefs about future events or performance or that do not solely relate to historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements involve certain risks uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or are beyond Quanta's control and actual results may differ materially from those expected or implied as forward-looking statement.
Management cautions that you should not place undue reliance on Quanta's forward-looking statements and Quanta does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after this call.
For additional information concerning some of the risks uncertainties and assumptions that could affect Quanta's forward-looking statements please refer to the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011; its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; and its other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission which may be obtained on Quanta's website or through the SEC's website at sec.gov.
With that I would like to now turn the call over to Mr.
Jim O'Neil Quanta's President and CEO.
Jim? Thanks Kip.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the Quanta Services First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
I will start the call with an operational overview before turning the call over to James Haddox Quanta's CFO to provide a detailed review of our first quarter financial results.
Following James' comments we will welcome your questions.
Our first quarter results reflect continued solid execution by our operations and robust demand for our services.
Our revenues in the first quarter grew 68% compared to the first quarter of 2011 and our GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.22 represents a $63.3 million net income improvement over the same quarter last year.
Both our 12 month and total backlog increased at the end of the first quarter compared to the end of the same quarter in 2011.
12-month backlog increased about 37% and total backlog increased almost 12% compared to the backlog at the end of the first quarter of 2011.
Our first quarter results were driven by strong performance in our Electric Power segment due to the number of electric transmission projects in construction and our ability to safely execute on these projects.
Of note our employed count at the end of this year's first quarter was about 19 000 up 35% compared to the first quarter of last year and up 7% sequentially since the end of the fourth quarter of 2011.
Turning to our Electric Power segment revenues increased approximately 65% in this year's first quarter compared to the same period last year.
12-month backlog at the end of the first quarter for the Electric Power segment increased 45% and total backlog for this segment increased 14% compared to the end of the 2011 first quarter.
We are in the construction phase on 12 large electric transmission projects and most are progressing as expected without significant delays.
We continue to see significant opportunity for large electric transmission awards in 2012 and 2013 as utilities move forward with these projects to improve grid reliability and transport power from renewable sources to load centers.
We believe we are still in the early stages of a multiyear transmission build-out in the United States and Canada and expect our Electric Power segment backlog to remain strong throughout 2012 and beyond.
We are currently in various stages of discussions on approximately $1 billion of large electric transmission projects that we expect will be awarded this year.
As I mentioned on our fourth quarter earnings call we expect the timing of large transmission awards to be lumpy going forward.
Therefore we recommend that investors focus on new award activity over the long term rather than on a quarterly basis.
In addition to the large electric transmission project opportunities the smaller transmission market remains active and tight industry capacity has firmed up pricing for these smaller projects.
We have also seen distribution spending increased thus far in 2012 when compared to 2011 but are cautious about our expectation for the remainder of the year given that the politics of an election year could impact utility spending patterns.
We believe attractive opportunities for solar EPC projects could move forward in 2012 and 2013.
During the first quarter we were selected by GCL Solar Energy to provide comprehensive EPC services on 2 photovoltaic facilities totaling 70 megawatts.
These projects are located near the city of Alpaugh in Tulare County California.
The projects are scheduled for completion by year end.
And once completed the combined facilities will be one of the largest photovoltaic tracking facilities in the world.
We're also working on the 20-megawatt Atwell Island solar facility in Tulare County California for Solar Project Solutions a joint venture between Samsung Green Repower and Enco Utility Services.
Both of the GCL and Atwell projects are in the early stages of construction and will move into more active state of construction in the second quarter of this year.
We are seeing additional utility scale solar opportunities that could be awarded this year.
Like large electric transmission projects we expect the timing of solar EPC project awards to be uneven due to the regulatory environment availability of project financing and other factors.
Natural Gas and Pipeline revenues increased about 103% in the first quarter of 2012 compared to the same quarter last year.
At the end of the first quarter of 2012 12-month backlog and total backlog for our Natural Gas and Pipeline segment increased approximately -- about 29% and 12% respectively compared to the end of the first quarter of 2011.
Demand for gathering system pipeline infrastructure within the shales is strong and we remain encouraged by the opportunities we continue to see for our Natural Gas and Pipeline segment.
Since our last earnings conference call on February 22 Quanta has been awarded approximately $170 million of pipeline projects for a total of approximately $370 million of pipeline project awards since the first of the year.
The projects awarded thus far in 2012 consist of gathering system and pipeline construction projects that call for Quanta to construct new pipeline facilities and replace existing pipelines to facilitate the transportation of natural gas natural gas liquids and oil to markets and processing facilities.
These projects are for customers such as Anadarko Petroleum Cayman Energy EPE Energy Enbridge Pipeline and Nicor Gas.
Of our current 12-month backlog for pipeline projects the majority is for pipeline gathering system infrastructure with the remainder for long-haul pipeline projects.
It is worth noting that we have had no -- we had no pipeline gathering projects in hand or in backlog at this time last year.
We are also encouraged by the level of long-haul pipeline opportunities on the horizon.
In addition to the Keystone XL project there are several large pipeline projects yet to be awarded that are targeted for construction later this year in 2013 and in 2014 that will require a significant amount of pipeline construction industry capacity.
Based on these long-haul pipeline opportunities coupled with our expectations of a strong pipeline gathering system market in those years we anticipate industry capacity could meaningfully tighten going forward.
As a result of the strategic initiatives we have executed on over the past year and the positive demand side outlook for our pipeline construction services for the next several years we believe our Natural Gas and Pipeline segment is better positioned today for profitable growth than it was at this time last year.
Although we have incurred an operating loss in the first quarter for this segment we do expect this segment to be profitable for the full year of 2012.
Our Telecommunications segment continues to experience momentum.
Revenues increased approximately 33% in this year's first quarter compared to the same period last year and we expect to improve financial performance for this segment in 2012 versus 2011.
Compared to the end of last year's first quarter 12 month and total backlog for this segment increased almost 13% and about 2% respectively.
The increase in revenues margins and backlog for this segment versus the first quarter of last year was driven by increases in the engineering and startup of broadband stimulus projects fiber-to-the-cell site projects and wireless-related work.
We anticipate that this segment's revenues will grow at double-digit rates with attractive margins throughout the year.
In our Fiber Optic Licensing segment revenues in the quarter increased approximately 3% compared to the first quarter of last year.
12 month and total backlog increased about 10% and nearly 4% respectively at the end of this year's first quarter as compared to the end of the first quarter of 2011.
We experienced a pickup in sales activity last year and during the K-12's school district selling season earlier this year.
We believe this activity will result in an increased revenue growth in the latter part of this year and into 2013.
We continue to balance the build-out of our newer markets to increase network penetration while investing in our more mature markets that generate higher margins and returns in the near term.
This balanced approach has enabled us to enhance our networks to grow returns and revenues while also maintaining relatively consistent and high margins.
As a result of our strong first quarter results the expectation of continued strength in our Electric Power segment the improved opportunities and better visibility for our Natural Gas and Pipeline segment and our continued expectation for growth in our Telecom segment we are increasing our 2012 full year outlook.
We are increasing our revenue estimate by $400 million to $500 million and our diluted and adjusted diluted earnings per share estimates each by $0.10.
James will provide additional detail about our outlook in his comments.
Though we are excited about our opportunities for 2012 our outlook continues to take in account a challenging operating environment due to economic uncertainty and in particular a tough regulatory environment in a presidential election year.
These factors are outside of our control and they have impacted the timing of project awards and project starts in the past.
In summary total company backlog remains strong.
Our Electric Power segment continues to perform well and we see significant transmission opportunities for the next several years.
We also believe our better positioning and indications of an improved operating environment for our Natural Gas and Pipeline segment should produce better results for this segment in 2012 versus 2011 with momentum building in 2013 and 2014.
As a result we believe all of our operating segments will experience an increase in revenues and margins in 2012.
As a final note in early April we announced that James Haddox will assume the role of Executive Vice President of Quanta on May 17 of this year and that Derrick Jensen Quanta's Senior Vice President of Finance and Administration and Chief Accounting Officer will assume the role of Chief Financial Officer on the same date.
James will remain actively involved with Quanta in his role as Executive Vice President.
Derrick has been with Quanta since its inception.
I have worked with Derrick for nearly 14 years and I'd like to thank James and congratulate Derrick and I look forward to continuing to work with them both.
With that I would like to turn the call over to James.
Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
Today we announced revenues of $1.43 billion for the first quarter of 2011 compared to $849 million in the prior year's first quarter reflecting growth of about 68% quarter-over-quarter.
Net income attributable to common stock for the quarter was $45.7 million or $0.22 per diluted share as compared to a net loss of $17.6 million or a loss of $0.08 per diluted share in the first quarter of last year.
The growth in consolidated revenues in the first quarter of 2012 was driven by growth across all of Quanta's segments.
Also contributing to our increased revenues in the first quarter of 2012 was the incremental contribution of approximately $50 million in revenues during the quarter from companies acquired since the first quarter of 2011.
Our consolidated gross margin increased from 8.4% in 1Q '11 to 13.7% in 1Q '12.
This increase was due to higher profit margins earned across all of our segments with the majority of the increase being driven by improved performance on electric power transmission projects and reduced losses in the Natural Gas segment.
Selling general and administrative expenses of $107 million increased $15 million as compared to last year's first quarter.
This increase is primarily attributable to $4.1 million in higher salary and benefit costs associated with increased levels of activity; approximately $3.7 million in additional administrative expenses associated with companies acquired since the first quarter of 2011; and $3.1 million in increased professional fees and technology development costs relating to starting activities that no longer qualify for capitalization.
As a percentage of revenues selling general and administrative expenses decreased from 10.8% in the first quarter of 2011 to 7.5% in the first quarter of 2012 primarily due to the higher overall revenues as previously discussed.
Our consolidated operating margin before amortization expense increased from a loss of 2.4% in 1Q '11 to a positive 6.2% in 1Q '12.
To further discuss our segment results the Electric Power segment's revenues were up about $367 million quarter-over-quarter or approximately 65%.
Revenues were positively impacted by higher revenues from electric power transmission services resulting from an increase in the number and size of projects that are ongoing in 1Q '12 compared to 1Q '11.
Also contributing to this increase was the incremental contribution of $40 million in revenue from acquired companies and $16 million in higher emergency restoration services resulting primarily from winter storm work in the Northwest region of the United States.
Additionally as compared to last year's first quarter when we had construction start delays on 3 major power transmission projects this year's first quarter had no such delay.
Operating margin in the Electric Power segment increased to 11.7% in the first quarter of 2012 compared to 5.2% in last year's first quarter primarily due to higher overall revenues from services on higher-margin transmission projects as well as increased higher-margin emergency restoration services.
Additionally these increased revenues contributed to this segment's improved ability to cover fixed and overhead costs.
Natural Gas and Pipeline revenues increased quarter-over-quarter by 103% to $358.9 million in 1Q '12 primarily due to an increase in number and size of transmission pipeline projects.
Additionally we saw increases in revenues from natural gas distribution services due to an outsourced services agreement for gas distribution work which we started in the second quarter of 2011 as well as increased spending by certain of our customers.
Operating loss for the Natural Gas and Pipeline segment as a percentage of revenues decreased to negative 3.1% for 1Q '12 from a negative 20.9% for 1Q '11.
This improvement was primarily due to the prior year being significantly impacted by productivity issues on certain gas transmission pipeline projects which were hampered by unusual winter weather and complicated by restrictive governmental regulations.
Significant rainfall adversely impacted the profitability of certain projects in the first quarter of 2012 although to a lesser extent than we experienced in 1Q of '11.
Revenues from our Telecommunications segment increased $26.6 million or 33% from $106 million in 1Q '12 primarily due to an increase in the volume of work associated with stimulus-funded fiber optic construction projects and higher revenues from fiber-to-the-cell site initiatives resulting from higher capital spending by our customers.
Operating margin in the Telecommunications segment was 7.9% in 1Q '12 compared to a negative 4.6% in 1Q '11.
This increase in margin is primarily due to the increased demand for our services allowing for margin expansion as well as the impact of revenue increases on this segment's ability to cover fixed costs.
Fiber Optic Licensing segment revenues were $27.0 million for the first quarter of 2012 reflecting an increase of 3% over 1Q '11.
Operating margin was 50% in 1Q '12 compared to operating margin of 45.8% in 1Q '11.
When calculating margins by segment we do not allocate certain selling general and administrative expenses and amortization expense to our segments.
Therefore the previous discussion about operating margins by segment excludes the effect of such expenses.
Corporate and unallocated costs increased $13.3 million in the first quarter of '12 as compared to 1Q of 2011 primarily due to $5.3 million in higher salary and incentive compensation costs associated with current levels of operating activity and $3.1 million in higher amortization expense as well as increased professional fees and technology development costs relating to certain activities that no longer qualify for capitalization.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share as calculated in today's press release was $0.27 for the first quarter of 2012 compared to an adjusted diluted loss per share of $0.05 in 1Q '11.
Cash flow used in operations was approximately $60 million.
Capital expenditures were about $34 million resulting in approximately $94 million in negative free cash flow for the quarter.
The negative free cash flow during the first quarter of 2012 was primarily due to higher costs in excess of billing balances and certain ongoing electric and gas transmission projects at first quarter production that had now reached milestone billing points as well as increased retainage balances associated with these ongoing projects.
The higher production on certain transmission projects due to favorable weather resulted in increased revenue.
However some of the billing units associated with these projects are large and the milestones for submission of these billings had not occurred as of the quarter end.
Despite these increases our days sales outstanding or DSOs were 79 days at March 31 2012 versus 84 days at March 31 2011 and 68 days at December 31 2011.
EBITA for the first quarter of 2012 was $84.7 million or 5.9% of revenues compared to a negative $22 million or negative 2.6% of revenues for the first quarter of 2011.
Adjusted EBITDA was $122.4 million or 8.6% of revenues for the first quarter of 2012 compared to $12 million or 1.4% of revenues for the first quarter of 2011.
The calculation of EBITA and EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA all non-GAAP measures and the definitions of these and DSOs can be found in the Investors &amp; Media section of our website at quantaservices.com.
At March 31 2012 we had about $182 million in letters of credit outstanding primarily to secure our insurance program and had no other borrowing.
In addition at the end of the quarter we had approximately $177 million in cash.
Considering our cash on hand and availability under our credit facility we have nearly $695 million in total liquidity as of March 31.
We closed 3 acquisitions during the first quarter for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $67 million comprised of about $25 million in stock and $42 million in cash.
Subsequent to the end of the first quarter we closed an additional acquisition of a full-service electrical construction company in the Southeast U.S.
for $38 million and finalized an additional $52 million equity investment in Howard Midstream Energy Partners.
Howard Energy used the proceeds of our investment together with capital contributed by other investors to acquire additional pipeline assets in South Texas.
Our equity investment in Howard is approximately $87 million after this transaction representing about a 31% interest.
Concerning our outlook for 2012 we expect revenues for the second quarter of 2012 to range between $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion and diluted earnings per share to be $0.28 to $0.30 on a GAAP basis.
This estimate compares to revenues of $1.01 billion and diluted earnings per share of $0.15 in GAAP EPS in 2Q '11.
Our GAAP EPS forecast for 2Q '12 includes an estimate of $7 million for noncash compensation expenses and $10 million for amortization expenses.
Excluding these expenses our non-GAAP adjusted diluted earnings per share for the second quarter are expected to be $0.33 to $0.35 and compared to non-GAAP adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.19 in 2Q '11.
This non-GAAP measure is calculated on the same basis as the historical calculations of adjusted diluted earnings per share presented in the release.
As a result of our strong financial performance in the first quarter of 2012 our increased backlog and our higher level of confidence in the expected results for our Natural Gas and Pipeline segment we have increased our 2012 guidance.
We currently expect revenues for the full year 2012 to range between $5.4 billion and $5.7 billion and diluted earnings per share to be between $1 to $1.20 on a GAAP basis.
This estimate compares to revenues of $4.6 billion and $0.62 in GAAP EPS in 2011.
Our GAAP EPS forecast for 2012 includes an estimate of $26 million for noncash compensation expenses and $39 million of amortization expense.
Excluding these expenses our non-GAAP adjusted diluted earnings per share from 2012 -- for 2012 are expected to be $1.19 to $1.39.
We are currently forecasting net income attributable to noncontrolling interest to be approximately $4 million in the second quarter of 2012 and $16.3 million for the year.
For additional guidance we're currently projecting our GAAP tax rate to be approximately 37% for 2012 and we expect our diluted share count to be about 212 million shares for 2012.
We expect CapEx for all of 2012 to be approximately $190 million to $225 million which includes CapEx for our Fiber Licensing segment of about $40 million to $50 million.
This compares to CapEx of all of 2011 of $172 million.
As Jim commented we have entered 2012 with quite a bit of momentum in our business.
We believe that we're operationally and financially well-positioned for solid growth in 2012 and beyond.
As you know this will be my last quarterly conference call as the CFO of Quanta.
Effective at our annual meeting on May 17 Derrick Jensen will become CFO of Quanta.
Derrick and I have worked closely together since the inception of Quanta and I'm confident that Derrick will do an excellent job as Quanta's CFO.
As for me I'm looking forward to serving as Quanta's EVP and assisting Quanta as needed through this transition.
This concludes our formal presentation and we'll now open the line for Q&amp;A.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And our first question does come from the line of Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc.
Research Division</strong> James we're going to miss you.
So I look forward to hopefully seeing you at Quanta headquarters.
My first question is really obviously if you look at the strong performance in the second quarter and how it's shaping up a lot of your guidance being taken up seems to reflect that.
As you look at the second half of this year could you talk a bit about the drivers that are on the positive and really a little more color on the risk you're assuming there? Tahira we probably for the first time we've taken a lot of uncommitted out of our forecast because we are in an election year.
And so much of our backlog is large project work that's subject to starts and stops because of the owners' regulatory environment.
And so we've taken a conservative approach and we've got very high -- I think our pipeline business is pretty much what we forecasted is what we have in backlog for the year.
Not much uncommitted if any at all.
And on the electric side we're really not taking into account any future awards to any greater extent.
So we are being conservative because we have been through this before.
In prior -- in the last year we've had some stops in projects which we got on the wrong side of guidance.
So we're just trying to be conservative and we'll take it a quarter at a time.
Research Division</strong> That seems to make sense.
And I guess my second question is your commentary on the long-haul pipeline side very encouraging and really the first blush really outside of Keystone that seems positive.
Could you talk a bit about what you think is driving this and what we should be looking out for to see these projects really move ahead? Yes I mean I can talk in general.
Again it's difficult because of the customer environment and the pipeline segment for us to disclose too much information specifically about customers.
But it's what we've been saying all along it's the Canadian oil sands pipeline infrastructure bringing that product to refineries either into the U.S.
or to shipping ports in Canada.
And also just the gathering system in long-haul pipeline infrastructure to bring shale products to refineries and to markets throughout the U.S.
And that's been the consistent theme and we're starting to see some traction in the industry.
And I think that it's getting ready to break out the industry in general.
And we're going to have some very robust years ahead and we'll benefit from that.
And our next question does come from the line of Will Gabrielski with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about beyond the reliability and congestion of renewables-driven transmission work? I've just been seeing a lot more talk about rebuilding of lines and enforcement of NERC regulations.
How much is that impacting your business? And what does that look like going forward? That's a very good question Will.
The small transmission market is really accelerating and that is being driven by NERC compliance.
And I would say that we're probably seeing just as large of an increase in the smaller transmission market which probably makes up for almost half of our overall transmission market just giving you a general estimate.
I see that part of the transmission business accelerating even more than my large transmission market and it's being driven by the NERC compliance standards.
Research Division</strong> Is there any way -- or have you seen any numbers that can quantify maybe the number of miles that are out there that could possibly fall under some sort of NERC-driven rebuild cycle? We're hearing around 10 000 miles right now.
It's probably going to increase over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question if you'll allow me.
Can you just run through -- you said you have 12 big projects in construction now.
As you look through the year what the schedule looks like in terms of big jobs winding down and then maybe some jobs that you recently booked moving into construction? Yes I mean I think in general the way to look at it is you got Sunrise and Hydro One that are winding down here in the second quarter.
And you got most of the CREZ that's winding up in the second quarter.
That's the big I guess movement.
The other projects are moving along in construction and they have completion schedules anywhere from mid-2013 all the way out through 2016.
And our next question does come from the line of Scott Levine with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Rodney Clayton here for Scott.
And congrats again to Derrick and James on your responsibilities there.
So first I just want to focus a bit on the regulatory environment.
It sounds like you didn't have many delays in Q1 and it feels like maybe your visibility into the timing on some of the transmission projects is improving.
Should we interpret that to mean that the permitting environment is getting any less onerous or is it just that some of your newer projects have had the time to push through the regulatory bottleneck? I think it's the latter.
I think that the regulatory environment has been onerous for our customers and that we've just had projects move through that bottleneck into construction.
But we are -- we do still have some projects that are working in Forest Service lands and we're just being very conservative on forecasting those projects through the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> And I appreciate your commentary around election year politics.
I certainly understand that.
Are you seeing any impact at this time from the election calendar? Or is it just -- or that's just something that you're cognizant of that that could occur later on? We're cognizant of it that it could occur later on.
We haven't seen anything to date but we expect the unexpected today versus the -- in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then finally looking at your pipeline business obviously revenue very strong in the quarter.
And I understand that it's going to be profitable on a full year basis.
Can you just remind us what kind of turns that -- pushes that in the profitability? Is it just the higher activity levels that you're expecting later on in the year absorbing your fixed costs? Or is there -- or is there some of the catalysts there? No I think it's just moving out of the first quarter that had some bad weather -- or challenging weather.
It's just better weather.
And second and third quarter is when you really move into full execution and get your better weather to will drive a profitable business which in turn will give us we think a marginally profitable business for the full year of '12.
So we're looking forward to the second quarter and beyond in that segment.
And our next question does come from the line of Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
This is Andrew Buscaglia on behalf of Jamie Cook.
So I got a quick question on -- just looking at sort of looking at your strength in Q1 which is usually a seasonally weaker quarter.
I know you mentioned that you had some revenues from acquisitions and some better weather.
Was there anything else there that surprised you that -- I mean I think you surprised us here a little bit with such a strong top line and the margins were pretty good.
So is there anything else that you're seeing in what is usually sort of a seasonally weaker time frame? No Andrew I think it was really -- we just had so much transmission work going on.
And the winter weather was very mild throughout the country and we got better production and that translated into better margins.
I think if there was anything added to that is we were doing more work in the small transmission market than we expected because of NERC compliance.
Okay yes.
So yes it looks like some of the weather helped.
Do you think that might have pulled anything? I know looking at your guidance it looks like the back half implies sort of like a $0.60 between Q3 and Q4.
Is that just you being conservative or is there just -- is there -- is some of that demand -- or some of that -- from the strength in Q1 just kind of pulled ahead from the remaining 3 quarters? Again I think -- well we're being conservative in the second half of the year because it is an election year.
So if you model the second half of the year the fourth quarter's probably going to be light because we don't have a lot of uncommitted in there.
So that's -- it is a conservative second half of the year and we'll take it a quarter at a time.
And our next question does come from the line of Alex Rygiel with FBR.
Research Division</strong> But a couple of quick questions.
First on the pipeline business.
What's your geographic mix these days given that it's changed a little bit over the last 12 months? We've primarily been in the Marcellus and we had a transmission job in the -- a long-haul pipeline job in Texas in the first quarter.
That's completed.
But we're primarily in the Marcellus and Eagle Ford and Bakken.
That's where we're positioned to take advantage of these liquid-rich plays.
Of course our long-haul pipeline we work throughout the country wherever there's an opportunity.
Research Division</strong> And could you run through your view on pricing by end market? By end market you mean by segment or just in the pipeline business? Research Division</strong> You can go by segment in all your businesses.
I mean pricing across the board is I guess I can just say in general is strengthening because the capacity in all of our segments is tightening up.
You can look at any of the businesses whether it's electric distribution the small transmission market the large electric transmission market even the pipeline business is beginning to firm up.
Telecom has been very active.
That market's firmed up.
So that should all translate into better margins this year compared to last on a consolidated basis.
Research Division</strong> And one last question.
Given sort of some of the transition in transmission projects in 2Q should we expect margins in Electric Power to be a little bit better or a little bit softer than 1Q? I think margins should continue to be strong.
It's going to be driven by Electric Power segment which should perform on the upper end of the 9% to 12% operating income.
We can't really take any one quarter.
The second quarter -- the first quarter obviously was strong because we had good weather.
It almost felt like a second or third quarter because of the mild weather.
So I think I'd just rather leave it at that.
You can't really show any patterns margins should -- throughout the year margins just should be strong.
They should be in the upward in the 9% to 12% maybe even better than that for the year.
And our next question comes from the line of Jeff Beach with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You had quantified the bidding opportunities in your Electric Power division can you quantify opportunities talk about how active the bidding or discussions are in the other 2 major divisions gas and gas pipeline -- or Gas and Pipeline and Telecom? Yes on the pipeline side Jeff it's very active.
It's a little bit different dynamic because last year we were looking at $1.8 billion worth of activity that was going to be awarded and constructed during that calendar year.
Obviously that didn't play out.
Now we're looking at probably a much higher number than that but over 2- to 3-year construction period.
So I think a lot of that will firm up between now and the end of the year.
So it's a very robust environment on the pipeline side.
I would say it's definitely more robust than it was last year at this time.
Telecom obviously we're in the height of the construction cycle for stimulus.
We're still getting awards.
We're seeing some MSA agreements come into play on the Telecom side as well.
I think we had much as $30 million of MSA awards on the Telecom side in the first quarter.
And we think that trend will continue.
So it's still a very strong environment.
Distribution again that market's growing.
It's just all around all of our segments have momentum.
And price is tightening up and the environment looks good in 2012 and into '13 and '14.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And specifically with Telecom you've got a nice backlog.
Is there enough opportunity to maintain or possibly even grow that backlog through the year? Yes I mean one thing that's the wild card -- and we dont think it's going to be a big issue because stimulus construction should wind down in the middle of '13.
But many of the customers that benefited from stimulus will continue with their capital programs to expand the networks and then the wireless business should continue to accelerate specifically back-haul fiber construction.
So we think that we may not have as strong a growth in Telecom in '14 over '13 as we do in our other segments but it should still be a very strong environment.
And our next question does come from the line of Zach Larkin with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question I had Jim I wanted to go back to your comments on the winding down of the Sunrise and Hydro One and then the increase on CREZ.
As you're looking at those knowing that both Sunrise and Hydro were done on a more compressed time schedule do you think that the increase on the CREZ projects is going to be enough to offset them as we move kind of 2Q into 3Q? Or should we expect maybe a little bit of softening just on the overall level given those dynamics? Now remember CREZ is compressed too.
I mean that schedule -- many of those customers compress their schedules from 12 to 18 months.
Less time to build those lines.
The completion dates still must be by the middle of '13.
So you're not going to see any softening in transmission in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in second to third same same kind of dynamic there? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as you're looking at the renewables opportunities are you seeing any differences or changes in the tides and/or scope of EPC projects that you're doing in that space? No it's pretty consistent with what we've done on the prior years.
I will add that these opportunities that we're capitalizing on do take advantage of the 1603 tax grants.
So beyond '13 and '14 -- or excuse me beyond '12 and '13 we'll just have to see whether renewable market goes.
But it looks like a very robust market for the next 1.5 years for us.
And our next question does come from the line of Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Jeff kind of just asked my question but maybe I'll ask it again and you can expand it -- expand on it.
But the Telecom backlog total backlog up only 2% year-over-year.
I just want to make sure that they didn't really portend any real weakening there maybe it's just a lumpy issue.
Yes you've got to remember that a lot of this stimulus work was awarded to us and there were delays in the construction due to the permitting -- environmental permitting that was necessary.
So we're burning off a lot of that construction -- that backlog in an accelerated manner because that was a bottleneck as well.
So I think any backlog increase in that segment with the amount of construction activity going on is a positive.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I did want to ask about you made a comment about your electric utility customers there -- are they feeling a little bit pressure? Maybe they cut back on distribution spending a little bit here as we move through 2012.
What -- is that an issue of with natural gas prices being down is that squeezing their profitability a little bit? Why the weakness there from electric utility customers? No I mean distribution was up in '11 over '10 and we've seen it up so far in the first quarter.
And we still see momentum in distribution spending.
We're just being cautious about being in an election year because when we had the midterm elections is when we saw distribution cuts the last time politics played a role in the I guess in capital programs being cut back on distribution.
So we're just anticipating that that type of phenomenon could happen again.
We haven't seen anything that indicates that.
But our forecast is leaning towards being conservative in case that does come into play.
Research Division</strong> And when you talk to those electric utility customers they're not telling you they're concerned you're just being cautious just based on your experience.
Being cautious I mean right now the distribution -- the customer budgets are being released in the first quarter for distribution spending.
So it's more an unknown right now to us.
But we don't expect distribution.
We haven't heard anything from our customers that they're cutting back.
It's just a cautious approach.
And our next question does come from the line of Ahmar Zaman with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First one so in your electric and pipeline business a strong quarter.
How should we think about the linearity in this business through the year as we go through the year here? And what are some of the drivers of that linearity? When you talk about linearity are you talking about the seasonality of the business or our growth year-over-year? Research Division</strong> Just the year -- as we go -- as we look at the full year with a very strong quarter in the first quarter as we go through Q2 Q3 and the second half of the year do you expect any slowdown or continuous sequential growth? How should we think about that? No you should see a double-digit revenue growth in each of our segments and improving margins for the year year-over-year.
And a lot of that is being driven by increased activity in the U.S.
and Canada.
And Canada is going to be a very active market this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And so we should just assume that growth -- that strong double-digit growth year-over-year just linearly throughout the year? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Second question's on smart grid.
We've heard there's some slowdown on the smart grid sector especially around AMI.
What are you seeing in some of your engagements in the smart grid side? We've got smart grid insulation contracts throughout the country and related smart grid apparatus like a wireless infrastructure and switchgear installations and we haven't seen any slowdown in our smart grid business.
Of course incrementally that's a very small part of our overall revenues.
That's probably less than $100 million of what we do today.
But we haven't seen any slowdown in that business.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just -- I think somebody already asked this question on your renewables side.
Specifically on solar you mentioned the 2 projects you won with GCL.
What are you seeing in terms of overall solar growth in the U.S.
year-over-year? Do you have any projections for the amount of megawatts this year that you're expecting for the U.S.
market? I think it was a 2-gig market last year.
I think that number should be fairly consistent this year.
But you got to be careful because a lot of that is distributive solar and utility scale solar is kind of mixed in.
But I think the utility scale programs that we're seeing is a very robust environment at least for the next 2 years compared to what we've seen over the last 2 or 3 years.
And our next question does come from the line of Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is really on your gas margins.
Jim if I heard you correctly it's seems like you will get the profitability this year.
Perhaps you can tell us a little bit about the timing.
Do you expect the timing to be in 2Q? And then more specifically as we kind of move out into 2013 do you think we can get back to a normalized margin range there for that business just based on the visibility that you have today? Yes.
We expect to be profitable in 2Q.
We have forecasted this to be marginally profitable for the year.
I think that's being conservative because we've only forecasted the backlog we have in hand.
But certainly we expect execution and hopefully more awards.
And we should be better than hopefully marginally breakeven or marginally profitable.
We certainly think that in '13 and '14 we should return to normal margin patterns that we have seen in years prior to 2011.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And maybe a follow-on to that is at your Investor Day you guys listed a few sample pipeline projects that you expected to start construction in 2012 2013.
Perhaps maybe you can provide an update on whether any of those projects have been awarded yet or whether you're still expecting those projects to move forward as planned? None of those have been awarded to -- I know there's been some Texas projects awarded.
But for the most part that list most of those haven't been awarded.
They're all still in play.
And they should move into construction in '12 -- excuse me '13 and '14.
Most of those projects will move into construction in '13 and '14.
And our next question does come from the line of William Bremer with Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> James wish you well.
Derrick congratulations.
Many of my questions have been answered.
I want to go into pipeline in terms of integrity and inspection.
Can you give us an idea of how that has been progressing throughout this first quarter? It's been progressing very well.
It's a very small percentage of our overall pipeline segment revenues today.
But it probably has the opportunity to grow faster than any other part of our business.
And we actually bought a pigging company in the first quarter to help -- allow us to provide full service -- integrity services to our customers.
And we're excited about that business.
And we think that over the next several years for years to come that business should grow significantly.
And our next question does come from the line of Justin Hauke with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I hate to pick on the pipeline business still.
But I do have a couple of questions.
I guess it's just confusing to me because the revenue was so strong I mean it doubled last year.
And when I looked at what the margins were in that business in 2010 when your revenue was about half of what you did this quarter you weren't posting losses.
So I guess maybe the way to ask it is the shale work that you're doing versus the long-haul work can you break out kind of what the profitability was in your shale work specifically? Yes I mean it's pretty consistent Justin with the shale and the pipeline work.
I mean we -- a couple of data points for you.
I mean we did have a very good revenue quarter.
And we typically see that type of revenue in the second and third quarter we had it in the first.
And we did have the mild weather in the winter due to the fact just because we did have more rain and snow and frozen ground to work in and that the muddy conditions certainly hurt our production.
And I hate talking about the weather.
All I can tell you is you're going to see improved performance in the second and third quarter and for the full year.
And we had a challenge in the first quarter but we -- I think we've talked about being breakeven in the pipeline segment.
We did have a slight loss because of some of the weather challenges that we faced primarily in the Marcellus.
Research Division</strong> To be clear then I guess it's not an asset utilization issue here where you're not generating enough revenue to cover it.
It was more specific to the quarter because of weather-related issues.
That's correct.
That's correct.
We're fairly -- we're pretty well utilized right now.
So we feel pretty good about our position going into the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question.
A little more high level but one of the things we're starting to hear more about is FERC pushing back on the allowed ROEs of some of these larger transmission projects.
And I guess just to the extent you can comment on kind of what you're seeing on that front and if that's having any impact on kind of the decision calculus of the utilities? We're not really seeing that.
But if that was the case you still have the reliability issues that need to be addressed.
And even if they ratchet back the ROEs it's still going to be the higher -- the best investment for our utility customers.
It will still be the highest rate of return for them would be in transmission.
So we're not concerned about that.
But we haven't really seen or heard any of our customers talk about reduced ROEs affecting any of the capital programs going forward.
And our next question does come from the line of Craig Irwin with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked but I was hoping that you might be able to comment a little bit about the Electric Power segment and maybe the difference in profitability that you're seeing between your larger projects and some of your smaller projects in the typical O&amp;M type work you do for your customers.
And whether or not you expect that that spread will narrow over the course of the next several quarters.
Well usually in the past in the slower smaller transmission market we saw probably 400 to 500 basis points gap in margins.
But now I think it's pretty much neutral.
You might have a little bit of a gap but it's nothing very wide.
And then I would say that there are almost maybe 100 basis points difference with that on the smaller transmission jobs.
I'm not saying there aren't some select jobs that might have 200 300 basis points difference.
But overall with the small transmission market pricing has improved significantly because of the tightened capacity in the industry.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And previously in your prepared comments you mentioned $1 billion in large transmission projects that you're actively pursuing that you think have a good probability of being awarded.
Can you clarify if you've already been shortlisted for those projects or those are high probability projects for Quanta to be awarded? Or is this something where we should maybe allocate your more normal sort of win rate on large projects to scope out the potential future awards for Quanta right there? There's a good portion of those that there's a significant -- a high probability that we'll be awarded.
There's similar others that we're in the final running there's probably just 2 contractors being evaluated.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'm sorry just to clarify should we look at that year receiving your typical share of the large projects on that $1 billion or should your share of that $1 billion and potential work be substantially higher than your more recent win rate? It will be higher than our more recent win rate.
And our next question does come from the line of Dan Mannes with Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> Congrats to both Derrick and James.
I'm going to pile on on the pipeline segment.
You had a couple of questions in this arc and I guess I want to follow-through on it.
When you contrast the bidding environment this year to last year you noted there's a significantly larger amount.
Can you talk about the pace of words have you seen more coming through than you did last year? Or is it sort of the same scenario where nothing -- very little work is actually being awarded? We're seeing a lot of gathering system work being awarded and there's significantly more discussions and activity around the long-haul pipeline that will be constructed toward the end of this year and into '13 and '14 than what we've seen in a long time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the follow-up on that and I think you might have mentioned some of the regions.
We've seen a couple of contracts get awarded down in Texas to union contractors like Price Gregory.
Is that indicative of maybe a better and maybe less aggressive pricing -- a more attractive pricing environment for contractors? Or are those sort of one-offs that we should not pay attention to? No I think it's the former.
I think it's the tightening capacity in the industry and pricing is firming up.
I thought also.
We've had a couple of questions -- this is James.
We've had a couple of questions about the seasonality or linearity in our forecast.
And I thought I'd clarify that.
We -- by our expansion of our services into Canada although it's somewhat counterintuitive I think this year that's going to flatten some of the typical seasonality that you've seen in our business because the weather in Canada was normal this year so it froze when it was supposed to unlike last year and created the ability for us to work in tundra and in environments that you have to work in in frozen conditions.
So we are now working in Canada and seasons -- in the season that's typically a slow season if we're just in the U.S.
So I think you're going to see in our forecast when you guys start to try to do your quarterly models you're going to see we have a flattening of the differentials between say the first quarter and second quarter and third quarter because of that effect.
We did have some weather effect on the pipeline division because of rain on a couple of jobs that we had in the first quarter.
So you can see that in the margins.
And then the fourth quarter when you start to model it out based on our guidance the fourth quarter is probably going to be somewhat lower than you're accustomed to related to the other quarters but that's because of the fact that it's an election year and the weather is unpredictable when you get into the fourth quarter.
If it doesn't freeze in Canada when we think it's going to or if we have adverse weather in the fourth quarter in the U.S.
that affects our productivity the fourth quarter could be lower than you expect it to be.
So that's why some of you seem to be or may be having problems with modeling the quarters compared to our typical seasonality.
I just thought I would try to clarify that for you guys.
Do we have any other caller? And we do have one final question it does come from the line of Will Gabrielski with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I'm just wondering if you guys could talk maybe about your balance sheet and then capital allocation from here and any plans to maybe do some more repurchases? At the present time we don't have any approvals from our board to do any repurchases.
Right now as you can see from our balance sheet between the end of the year and the end of the first quarter and continuing on into the second quarter we're using our capital exactly like we've been saying we would use it which is to help support working capital requirements of all of the large projects and increases in backlog that we see.
So that's coming to fruition as we've been saying for the last couple of years.
We're also using it for capital expenditures.
We are seeing the normal amount of acquisition activity that we've seen in the past.
As we said we completed one since the end of the second quarter.
And then as we get through the year and see how our cash flow looks and the need for capital on all the items I just mentioned then we'll start looking at other uses of capital such as share repurchases and down the list a dividend possibly.
But at this point in time there's no plan for share repurchase or dividend on our agenda.
Research Division</strong> All right.
You just had a lot of pressure on the board to pay a dividend on your way out I guess? I didn't think I did.
That was a mistake if I did that.
And at this time I would like to turn the call back over to management for any closing comments.
Well I'd like to thank you all for participating on our first quarter 2012 conference call.
We appreciate your questions and your ongoing interest in Quanta Services.
Thank you.
This concludes our call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude the conference for today and we do thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Quanta Services First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call on the 2nd of May 2013.
[Operator Instructions] I will now hand the conference over to Kip Rupp.
Please go ahead sir.
Great.
Thanks Michaela and welcome everyone to the Quanta Services conference call to review first quarter 2013 results.
Before I turn the call over to management I have the normal housekeeping details to run through.
If you would like to have Quanta's news releases and other information emailed to you when they occur please sign up for email information alerts by going to the Investors &amp; Media section of Quanta Services' website at quantaservices.com.
In addition Quanta recently launched the Quanta Services investor relations app for iPhone iPad and Android mobile devices which is available for free at Apple's App Store and Google Play.
For your mobile -- from your mobile device go to the App Store and search Quanta Services IR to find and download the app.
The Quanta investor relations app allows users to navigate the company's investor relations materials including the latest press releases SEC filings presentations videos audio cast conference calls and stock price information.
A replay of today's call will be available on Quanta's website at quantaservices.com.
In addition a telephonic recorded instant replay will be available for the next 7 days 24 hours a day that can be accessed as set forth in the press release.
Please remember that information reported on this call speaks only as of today May 2 2013 and therefore you are advised that any time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate as of the time of any replay of this call.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements intended to qualify under the Safe Harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements include all statements reflecting Quanta's expectations intentions assumptions or beliefs about future events or performance or that do not solely relate to historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements involve certain risks uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or are beyond Quanta's control and actual results may differ materially from those expected or implied as forward-looking statements.
Management cautions that you should not place undue reliance on Quanta's forward-looking statements and Quanta does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after this call.
For additional information concerning some of the risks uncertainties and assumptions that could affect Quanta's forward-looking statements please refer to the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and its other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission which may be obtained on Quanta's website or through the SEC's website at sec.gov.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jim O'Neil Quanta's President and CEO.
Jim? Good morning everyone and welcome to Quanta Services First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
I will start the call with an operational overview before turning it over to Derrick Jensen Quanta's Chief Financial Officer who will provide a detailed review of our first quarter results.
Following Derrick's comments we welcome your questions.
Quanta is off to a great start this year posting record first quarter revenues and operating income.
Our first quarter results reflect strong demand for our services and continued solid project execution.
For the quarter revenues increased approximately 19% and GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased almost 55% compared to the same quarter last year.
Our 12-month and total backlog increased both sequentially and on a year-over-year basis.
Our total backlog is also at record levels.
Our Electric Power segment continued to experience an increase in demand for electric transmission and distribution services.
Regulations to improve grid reliability renewable interconnections the impact of coal to gas generation switching and other industry dynamics continued to drive power industry's investments in electric infrastructure.
The electric power industry is investing at record levels to upgrade and modernize North America's power grid.
We believe this trend will continue over the next several years as the current level of investment is not sufficient to keep pace with the rate at which transmission and distribution systems are aging.
Today available construction resources in the electric power industry are in short supply and skilled labor is in high demand.
In the future we expect demand for our services in an already tight labor market to grow.
As such we see attractive opportunities for our Electric Power segment for the remainder of this year and beyond.
We continue to be awarded large transmission projects.
During the quarter we announced 2 large electric transmission projects a 186-mile 230-kilovolt line for SaskPower in Northern Saskatchewan and a 310-mile 500-kilovolt HVDC line for ATCO Electric in Eastern Alberta.
We are currently mobilized on 17 large transmission projects throughout North America with each project's contract value averaging over $200 million.
Smaller transmission project activity also remains very active as customers continue to upgrade existing transmission infrastructure to meet reliability standards and to interconnect with the significant number of large transmission projects that have been construction -- was constructed over the last several years.
Also growth in distribution activity has continued to accelerate following nearly 3 years of deferred maintenance during the recession as our customers increasingly focused on distribution asset management initiatives such as reliability and smart grid deployment.
Our Natural Gas and Pipeline segment delivered comparable revenues in this quarter versus the first quarter of last year but operating income increased almost $20 million year-over-year.
We are pleased with the improvement in this segment's profitability in the first quarter and we expect continued profitability improvements throughout the year.
In the first quarter Quanta was selected by Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Company or PG&amp;E to provide comprehensive pipeline system integrity solutions as part of PG&amp;E's Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan.
Quanta was awarded a 3-year alliance agreement with subsequent annual extensions to provide services such as pipeline replacement hydrostatic testing and valve automation services.
Quanta has begun working under this alliance agreement and we estimate its value at approximately $100 million per year in revenues over the initial 3-year term.
Several of Quanta's operating units are involved in this alliance agreement illustrating the depth of expertise and the value proposition that Quanta brings to its natural gas utility customers.
Demand for pipeline services to support shale gathering infrastructure buildout was active in the first quarter and should remain so throughout the year and for many years hereafter as customers continue to invest in infrastructure needed to support the exploration of shale plays particularly in liquid-rich shale formations.
Active discussions with customers regarding mainline projects continue.
While we can't provide details at this time we believe we will receive some project awards and mobilize on mainline projects in 2013.
We also expect mainline project awards to make a significant positive impact on our company's overall performance in 2014 and beyond.
In our Fiber Optic Licensing and Other segment revenues for the quarter increased nicely over the prior year period with consistent operating margins.
The increase in revenues was primarily due to strong growth in providing telecommunications infrastructure services to non-telecom customers coupled with steady growth in our Fiber Optic Licensing revenues.
As discussed in our earnings release we have adjusted our full year 2013 guidance.
We increased the lower end of our guidance primarily due to superior performance in the first quarter that exceeded our original expectations and slightly increased full year operating margin expectations for our Electric Power segment.
We continue to reflect prudent expectations in our financial forecast particularly in the fourth quarter as the timing of electric transmission project awards construction start dates and seasonality can impact our overall financial performance.
Additionally we have no uncommitted mainline pipe construction revenues in our guidance for the remainder of 2013.
While we believe mainline project construction revenues are likely this year we will not include any projects in guidance until we have a signed contract and firm construction start date.
In summary we had an exceptional first quarter.
We continue to believe we are in a multiyear energy investment cycle and remain well positioned to maintain our leadership role in the industries we serve.
We will continue to leverage this leadership position and execute on our strategic initiatives to grow both organically and through selective acquisitions as we actively pursue opportunities to expand the solutions we are currently offering to our customers.
Before I turn the call over to Derrick I want to recognize John Colson Quanta's founder and current Executive Chairman of the Board who announced his plans to retire later this month.
John had a vision in 1997 to form Quanta Services as smaller private contractors were not be able to keep up with the pace of transmission construction activity that we are experiencing today.
As the first mover in the industry Quanta Services is today an S&amp;P 500 company.
There have also been many other public companies that have modeled their business to be like Quanta.
Not only is John a true friend and mentor to me as well as my entire leadership team John Colson is a true pioneer and recognized leader in this industry.
The electric power industry would not be where it is today without John's contributions.
John you will be missed greatly and we wish you and your family the best.
I will now turn the call over to Derrick Jensen our Chief Financial Officer for his financial review of the first quarter.
Derrick? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
Today we announced revenues of $1.59 billion for the first quarter of 2013 compared to $1.33 billion in the prior year's first quarter reflecting growth of approximately 19% quarter-over-quarter.
Net income from continuing operations attributable to common stock for the quarter was $72.1 million or $0.34 per diluted share as compared to $45.8 million or $0.22 per diluted share in the first quarter of last year.
The growth in consolidated revenues in the first quarter of 2013 was driven primarily by increased revenues from our Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment.
However growth was seen in all 3 of Quanta's segments.
Our consolidated gross margin increased to 15% in the first quarter 2013 from 14.0% in 1Q '12.
This improvement was led by the profitable first quarter performance of the Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment as compared to last year's first quarter losses as well as the impact of higher overall revenues which improved our ability to cover fixed operating costs.
Selling general and administrative of expenses were $113.7 million reflecting an increase of $15.6 million as compared to last year's first quarter.
This increase is primarily attributable to $11.6 million in higher salary and incentive compensation costs associated with increased levels of activity and profitability as well as administrative cost associated with the companies acquired in 2012 and $1.3 million in higher costs associated with the various development initiatives.
As a percentage of revenues selling general and administrative expenses decreased to 7.2% in the first quarter of 2013 from 7.4% in the first quarter of 2012 primarily due to the impact of higher overall revenues.
Our consolidated operating margin before amortization expense increased to 7.9% in 1Q '13 from 6.6% in 1Q '12.
Amortization of intangible assets decreased from $9.2 million in 1Q '12 to $5.3 million in the first quarter of 2013 as certain of these assets became fully amortized.
To further discuss our segment results the Electric Power segment's revenues were up about $248.8 million quarter-over-quarter or approximately 27%.
Revenues during the quarter were positively impacted by higher revenues from electric power transmission projects and solar power generation projects as a result of increased capital spending by our customers.
Revenues from emergency restoration services are relatively consistent between periods with approximately $33.4 million occurring in the first quarter of 2013 and $32 million occurring in the first quarter of 2012.
At the end of the first quarter 12-month backlog for the Electric Power segment increased slightly to $2.8 billion as compared to the first quarter of 2012.
Sequentially 12-month backlog decreased slightly by 3.4% from the end of the fourth quarter of 2012 as certain renewable projects proceeded into construction during the first quarter of 2013.
Total backlog for this segment remains strong at $4.84 billion.
Operating margin in the Electric Power segment decreased to 11.2% in the first quarter of 2013 as compared to 12.3% in last year's first quarter.
The prior year's first quarter performance was positively impacted by favorable winter weather conditions providing for excellent production on various electric projects.
Natural Gas and Pipeline segment revenues increased slightly quarter-over-quarter by 1% to $358.9 million in 1Q '13.
However operating income for the Natural Gas and Pipeline segment as a percentage of revenues increased to 2.9% in 1Q '13 from a negative 3% in 1Q '12.
The operating loss for the quarter ended March 31 2012 was primarily due to the increased project costs as a result of performance issues caused by adverse weather conditions on certain projects.
The operating margins for this quarter are more representative of the margin we would expect with the seasonal effects in volumes and production during a typical first quarter absent mainline pipework.
At the end of the first quarter of 2013 12-month and total backlog for this segment increased about 7% and 17% respectively compared to the end of the first quarter of 2012.
As we've commented before Keystone XL is not in any of the backlog figures presented for our pipeline segment.
Fiber Optic Licensing and Other segment revenues were up $6.2 million or 15.7% to $45.8 million in 1Q '13 as compared to $39.6 million in 1Q '12.
Additionally operating margin remains relatively constant at approximately 36.9% in 1Q '13 as compared to 36.7% in 1Q '12.
When calculating operating margins by segment we do not allocate certain selling general and administrative expenses and amortization expense to our segments.
Therefore the previous discussion about operating margins by segment excludes the effects of such expenses.
Corporate and unallocated costs increased $1.1 million in the first quarter of 2013 as compared to 1Q '12 primarily as a result of an increase of $5 million in various overhead expenses the largest of which was $2.6 million in higher salary and incentive compensation costs associated with current levels of operating activity and profitability partially offset by lower amortization expense of $3.9 million as a result of the burn off of required backlog.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations as calculated in today's press release was $0.38 for the first quarter of 2013 as compared to an adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.26 from 1Q '12.
Operating cash flow from continuing operations was approximately $44 million for the first quarter of 2013 as compared to the use of cash of $73 million for the first quarter of 2012.
Capital expenditures net of proceeds from equipment sales were about $56 million resulting in approximately $12 million in negative free cash flow for the first quarter of 2013.
This compares to $104 million in negative free cash flow for the first quarter of 2012.
Specifically cash flow has been impacted by higher days sales outstanding or DSOs.
Our DSOs were 87 days at March 31 2013 compared to 82 days at December 31 2012 and 80 days at March 31 2012.
Continuing to impact DSOs are the change orders associated with the Sunrise project which remain in cost and excess of billings.
Several meetings occurred throughout the quarter and progress continues to be made.
Substantive meetings are scheduled within the next 30 days and we currently aren't aware of any circumstances warranting any adjustments to the amount invoiced.
EBITA for the first quarter 2013 was $119.3 million or 7.5% of revenues compared to $83.8 million or 6.3% of revenues for the first quarter of 2012.
Adjusted EBITDA was $159.8 million or 10.1% of revenues for the first quarter of 2013 compared to $119.3 million or 9% of revenues for the first quarter of 2012.
The calculation of EBITA EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA all non-GAAP measures and the definitions of these and DSOs can be found in the Investors &amp; Media section of our website at quantaservices.com.
At March 31 2013 we had about $184 million in letters of credit outstanding primarily to secure our insurance program and we had no borrowings outstanding under our credit facility.
In addition at the end of the quarter we had approximately $367 million in cash with $112 million of the balance related to foreign operations.
Considering our cash on hand and availability under our credit facility we had nearly $883 million in total liquidity as of March 31.
Concerning our outlook for 2013 we expect revenues for the second quarter of 2013 to range between $1.45 billion and $1.55 billion and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be $0.30 to $0.32 on a GAAP basis.
These estimates compare to revenues of $1.39 billion and GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.27 in 2Q '12.
Our GAAP EPS forecast for 2Q '13 includes an estimate of $11.1 million for non-cash compensation expenses and $5.1 million for amortization expense.
Included in our estimate of non-cash stock-based compensation for the second quarter and year of 2013 is approximately $4.2 million of expense or $0.01 per diluted share related to the accelerated vesting of equity-based awards associated with John Colson's retirement as Quanta's Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors effective May 23 2013.
Excluding these expenses our non-GAAP adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the second quarter are expected to be $0.35 to $0.37 when compared to our non-GAAP adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.32 in 2Q '12.
This non-GAAP measure is calculated on the same basis as the historical calculations of adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations presented in this release.
We currently expect revenues for the full year 2013 to range between $5.9 billion and $6.3 billion and adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be between $1.20 to $1.40 on a GAAP basis.
Our GAAP EPS forecast for 2013 includes an estimate of $32.8 million for non-cash compensation expense and $20.5 million of amortization expense.
Excluding these expenses our non-GAAP adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for 2013 are expected to be between $1.37 to $1.57.
We are currently forecasting net income attributable to non-controlling interests to be approximately $3 million to $4 million in the second quarter of 2013 and around $14.5 million to $15.5 million for the year.
For additional guidance we're currently projecting our GAAP tax rate to be between 35.5% and 36% for 2013 and our diluted share count to be around 214 million shares.
We expect CapEx for all of 2013 to be approximately $210 million to $225 million which includes CapEx for our Fiber Licensing and Other segment of about $35 million to $45 million.
This compares to CapEx from continuing operations for all of 2012 of $209 million.
This concludes our formal presentation.
Other than to add an additional thank you to John from all of the employees of Quanta.
We couldn't have had a greater leader.
We'll now open the line for Q&amp;A.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Alex Rygiel from FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So easy question.
You beat the first quarter by $0.05 on the bottom line.
You raised your low end of your guidance by $0.10.
Was the first quarter -- did you have an extra $0.05 of cushion in the first quarter? Or do you have better visibility on the next 9 months such that you sort of raised the back end by $0.05? Well I'd say that the first quarter I mean obviously we had 17 big transmission projects in construction and we did have some fairly good weather throughout the country particularly in Texas and California.
So you just can't predict the weather.
So I wouldn't have said we've baked in $0.05 before the quarter.
You've got to understand the seasonality in the quarter and weather can be a big impact.
For the rest of the year we're just taking the same approach that we've taken 6 weeks ago when we talked to you guys in late February.
And we're being prudent about the second half of the year because of the significant amount of our upcoming work will be big projects that are subject to -- the start dates are subject to movement and we're just being prudent about that so we get more visibility.
Research Division</strong> And then secondly your Natural Gas margins improved very nicely on a year-over-year basis.
Can you give us a little bit more background on that? Was it pricing? Was it type of revenue or type of project or was it just purely better executions? I think it's a combination of all of those.
We worked really hard in that segment.
The first quarter is typically a very seasonal -- the segment is very seasonal over the year with the first quarter.
Several years ago we strived to breakeven in that segment.
And now because of the diversity of the services that we're providing with the shale gathering work some pipeline integrity work we've rebuilt our gas distribution business.
We've done a really nice job bringing that to profitability and we expect if we can execute margins will improve over the year to where we'll have our full year margins without big pipe.
The full year margins should be in that mid- to upper-single digit operating income range without big pipes.
So we're real pleased with the first quarter and how we've moved that segment to profitability in the most seasonal quarter of the year.
Our next question comes from Tahira Afzal from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Your bookings in the quarter was really strong on a year-on-year basis.
Is this trend going to continue in general to trend up as you're going to your seasonally high quarters? And is the mix increasingly going to be on the pipeline side or should we expect the same type of mix? Well we're going to be -- we've been consistent with our comments on backlog in Electric.
We haven't seen any changes.
It's a very strong market.
The timing of projects awards quarter-over-quarter can be lumpy.
But overall we're saying backlog in Electric should be strong now.
With that if we get big pipe work toward the end of the year the mix could shift somewhat could get a little bit higher percentage in backlog and pipeline obviously because those can be some fairly big projects.
But overall we haven't seen any changes in the overall business environment that we've been communicating to you guys over the last 2 years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the follow-up question is on the pipeline side.
And I'm cleverly trying to make it a twofold question because you only allow me 2 questions.
So if I look at the Keystone Pipeline being officially pushed out by around 6 months even if you start at the facade [ph] what you assume to be early 2014 I assume it does now project out a more stretched construction time frame.
Does that allow you to look at your spreads appropriately and see if you can bid on more project going forward than new project you could? And the second part of the question is the timing on some of these mainline prospects.
Clearly there are huge number out there.
Is the narrative timing going to be dictated by how economical rail looks as an alternative on the crude side? Well let me just say that the Keystone project has never impacted our ability to pursue other projects.
So your question about Keystone being pushed into '14 whether that's given us the ability to pursue more work that we've always pursued as much work as we could.
If we could get work at the margins that we expect to get work for which we've been very disciplined on bidding these projects.
And I would say that we should hear some announcements hopefully about pipeline.
We said -- for this year we said it's likely that we'll probably do some big pipe work this year so we're in some pretty detailed discussions right now.
So hopefully we will be able to talk about that in the near future.
I mean when you're building pipelines the most active parts of the pipeline season is in the second and third quarter and I don't expect that would change because the weather is more favorable then and there's less risk to building those lines for the customer and for contractor.
Our next question comes from Jamie Cook from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Sorry a couple of questions on guidance again.
But anyway the guidance in the quarter I'm just trying to figure out like if I look at your second quarter guide relative to where you came in at the first quarter it doesn't make a lot of sense because seasonally the second quarter is generally stronger.
So is there any pull forward? I'm just trying to understand if there's something in there that I'm not thinking about on just why your second quarter wouldn't be up more significantly relative to Q1.
And then on the Electric Power margin side I'm just trying to get a feel for how you're thinking about your margins in 2013 relative to 2012 whether you think we can -- the pricing environment is strong enough and utilization is high enough that we could exceed sort of your targeted range of 9% to 12%.
And then last question if we were to handicap where the upside comes from in 2013 do you feel it's more a function of your first quarter good execution or is it a function of the big gas pipeline stuff like Keystone finally getting done? Jamie this is Derrick.
Actually from a first and second quarter perspective we have commented last time that we thought the seasonality was going to start to flatten out a little bit.
When you look at 2012 in fact you can see that on a -- after discontinued operations that the first and second quarters are relatively flat.
When -- the other thing that's coming into consideration is we've got a lot of these large projects that Jim has talked about.
A lot of that work is in California and Texas which contributed to larger revenues in the first quarter relative to a seasonality perspective.
And then lastly we had a couple of solar projects that came through.
So all those things kind of came to a combination effects for the first and second quarter.
There was as you alluded to some pull forward from the second quarter into the first quarter based upon the good production we had for the period.
And then relative to margins we continue to guide to that 9% to 12% for the Electric Power.
As we've commented I think last time the 2012 was a phenomenal year for us throughout.
We had great execution.
We had very good weather.
We had high storm work.
So all of those things contributed to margins that were above that 9% to 12% range.
But we continue to feel as though that the 9% to 12% range is a prudent guidance for us for -- in that segment.
And as we stand here right now I think that you'll see that the modeling works out that we're probably in the mid-portion of that range in our current guidance.
And for the last component of it and as far as what's -- what can lead to some of those upsides I think as Jim has alluded to the opportunity for execution.
That's really where it can come from similar to 2012.
That's probably the primary driver.
Our next question comes from Will Gabrielski from Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys talk about the distribution market? And we're seeing a little bit of a recovery in housing or at least The Wall Street Journal says so every day on the cover.
And I'm wondering how that's impacting the distribution business.
And then on the maintenance side within that market how far from peak levels we are and how that's progressing back towards what we saw few years ago? Well I would say we're hearing the same news about housing starts and there's a lag to the impact the positive impact it would have to us.
We're not really seeing any meaningful impact in our revenues related to housing right now.
All of the growth that we've seen in distribution over the last 2 years and going into this year has been maintenance-related reliability-related.
And as far as where that goes we're not seeing a slowdown.
I can't predict what the peak would be but we're still growing the distribution revenues related to reliability work and maintenance continues to grow in healthy clips.
And we don't see it slowing down anytime soon.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the pipeline integrity or pipeline modernization market I think there's been some new laws passed over the past few months at least here in the Mid-Atlantic states that allow utilities better cost recovery on a more timely basis in that market.
And I guess you had success with PG&amp;E in the quarter.
So I'm just wondering how big that market opportunity is starting to look to you versus 12 months ago and what type of interaction you're having with customers about maybe MSA-type relationships or just bigger framework agreements? Yes.
We were having active discussions with many customers on integrity programs throughout the country.
And we've always said that our integrity business although it's a smaller base probably has more opportunity to grow at better clips than any other parts of our business.
So it's an exciting part of our business and we think it could be meaningful with the next 3 to 5 years.
Our next question comes from Vishal Shah from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Jim just curious to get a sense of the margin profile of the pipeline backlog or the new orders that you're getting.
Are you seeing better pricing and better margins in some of the upcoming orders? And I have a follow-up.
Well most of the work that we have in backlog is probably out 2 to 3 months at the max.
It's pipeline gathering work in the shale fields and the margins have been pretty predictable over the last several years.
We haven't seen much increase in those margins.
But margins and backlog will either be equal or slightly higher than what we're experiencing today.
We don't have any big pipe revenues to speak of in our backlog other than the project that starts in '14.
And certainly those margins would be higher in backlog when we start booking mainline pipe work hopefully over the next few months this year.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then on the Electric Power segment just wanted to understand to what extent the improvement in margin expectations.
Is this driven by pricing versus better execution? Are you seeing this -- the pricing environment continue to get better and therefore the upside to your margin expectations for the rest of the year? Yes Vishal.
I think it's a combination of both.
I mean certainly we can have a year like last year where we had better execution favorable weather and that certainly would put better margins to the bottom line.
But also margins and backlog are strong and they continue to be equal to or better than what we're currently experiencing today.
So it's a combination of both execution and the bidding environment in margins and backlog.
Our next question comes from Steven Fisher from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Good to see the Q1 profits in pipeline.
But I guess the revenues were only up less than 1% year-over-year.
So I guess I'm just wondering if we should assume a general slowdown in the outlook for shale pipeline project.
And if not why was it only up I guess 1%? Well that's going to be your seasonally low quarter for revenues in that segment.
It's more difficult to build pipeline in the first quarter because of weather particularly in the Marcellus which is one of our most active areas.
So that's by design.
That should pick up in the second quarter and into the third quarter.
In the fourth quarter it's kind of a wildcard.
It could be your second highest quarter.
It could be -- you could continue to have revenues equal to what you experienced in the third quarter.
But the first quarter is always going to be a seasonally low quarter for your pipeline segment and even in your gathering work.
Research Division</strong> So would you assume though that the year-over-year growth in the next few quarters should be better than kind of flattish? Yes this is Derrick.
I mean when we provide a previous guidance for that we have basically assumed that 2013 would be comparable to 2012.
I would say at this stage in the game we'd see at the mid- and high points you see some small single-digit revenue growth though.
Our next question comes from William Bremer from Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> Okay here are my questions.
Was wondering if there was any particular substation work that impacted electrical transmission this quarter.
My second question is if we go into a little bit -- you call that a little weather issues.
There's been a lot of talk of some high degree of rain in the Midwest.
How much did that if any can you call it and tell us about that impacted the pipeline arena? And then thirdly on the pipeline integrity is there any components at this time that you feel as though you need to either develop in-house or potentially acquire to really fulfill your portfolio in that area? We -- the impact of weather on our pipeline business in the first quarter was negligible.
We didn't have any negative or positive impacts due to weather.
As far as our integrity business we believe today Bill that we are a full service solution provider and there's really not any gaps in our integrity business that we need to fill today other than just continue to pursue opportunities and build that business.
And the first question? Research Division</strong> The particular substation? Yes the substation work pretty much flows with the amount of transmission work and distribution work.
It rises and falls with that activity.
So there was nothing out of the ordinary on substation in the first quarter other than it's very active just like transmission construction is today.
Our next question Craig Irwin from Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> So my first question I wanted to ask is can you update us on the approximate size of the electric power opportunities that you're bidding right now.
How does this change versus last year and whether or not you're seeing a mix shift either in the character of the projects or in the specific geographies that are offering the most exciting opportunities? Well there's still opportunities throughout the U.S.
and North America in general Craig.
I mean we are having a shift obviously CREZ is rolling off in Texas.
But there's still a significant amount of work to be done in Texas but there are other areas in the country that certainly we'll be redeploying the resources to.
There's opportunities to coal to gas switching.
So when you talk about the drivers we are seeing coal to gas switching being one of the bigger drivers of the transmission opportunities going forward for the remainder of the year and into '14.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then can you update us on dark fiber? Your last call you said you thought that that could grow.
Double digits may be better this year.
There were some pretty solid bookings in that segment in the quarter.
How do you see dark fiber progressing over the course of 2013? Have these sort of headwinds of the fiscal discipline out there may be lifted off enough where we can see a number of these projects actually supported by the local customers? Sure this is Derrick.
As it relates to fiber if you recall now we have the non-telecom revenues buried within the fiber as far as from a segment perspective but fiber overall is growing at a high single-digit rate at this stage in the game from a revenue perspective.
The sales continue to be strong.
2012 sales for future revenue installs was basically double-digit.
So from a revenue perspective as we go through and build out those new networks from sales I think we'll continue to see growth thus the high-single digit to double-digit growth.
Relative to the commentary of any of the sequestration or anything from spending we're not seeing that really impact our business right now.
I mean a lot of the work that we're doing is associated with ongoing contracts.
A lot of the sales that we're doing are for other incremental verticals like the financials rather than just relying on K-12.
But the K-12 spending right now is still going good for us.
Our next question comes from John Rogers from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I guess first thing in terms of the pipeline project opportunities Jim are they -- how quickly do you need to see that work actually get booked and actually executed this year? Is this something that we need to see in the second quarter given that's the time period when normally those projects come out? No John.
I would say that in the pipeline business on mainline pipe once your notice of award -- you get the notice of award you could mobilize immediately within the next week or 2 on that project.
So it's very -- it's a very quick mobilization from the time of award.
At least the projects that we're seeing here in the near term that's the way it will be.
So it's not like we get an award and then it goes to construction 6 months later.
It moves fairly rapidly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the large electric transmission projects are you seeing a shift at all in that market towards more sequential small projects away from large lump sum projects? We are seeing our smaller project revenues ramp at the same pace as the large projects.
So they're both very active right now or they have been.
We continue to believe that the small transmission market will continue to grow for the next several years.
Much of that work though still is lump sum work.
That's right.
Most of it is lump sum work and the visibility is limited in backlog and when projects will be awarded and move to construction.
But it is a very active market right now.
Our next question comes from Andrew Wittmann from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Thanks for the color on the electric side you kind of gave and idea of what the average project size that you're working on today is.
Just curious if you can give us some similar context like that for the pipeline stuff obviously not on what you're working on today but on the large diameter stuff that you could be working and you're looking at bidding on today for the future obviously excluding Keystone.
Just give us some sense about what the opportunities that might be like.
Andy I'd rather stay away from that right now.
I would say that we typically announce projects that are at $100 million or greater in size.
And that's just a general rule that we've been applied the last -- over the last several years.
But we really don't want to talk about any of these pipeline projects until we have a signed contract and a start date.
And then we'll be glad to provide as much information and color as we're allowed to by the customer.
Research Division</strong> Fair response.
I've figured I'd try.
The balance sheet is still sitting with as you mentioned over $800 million of liquidity and still the cash from the telecom sale -- just as you think and strategically here Jim you haven't really commented on the M&amp;A environment always part of what you do.
And talk about the activity level there and maybe the potential or the size of deals that you're looking at here today adjacencies to what you currently do et cetera.
Yes this is Derrick actually.
The -- from a use of capital perspective our obviously #1 in areas of focus continues to be working capital.
When you use a -- just to the extent that the large project that Jim spoke about there was a little demand a fair amount of working capital.
And so our #1 priority is to ensure we have plenty of working capital or cash availability to support the growth and then as well associated CapEx.
But then yes acquisitions and our investments are next priority.
From that we continue to be quite active.
We haven't had a material transaction closed in a bit.
We did have a small transaction closed in the first quarter recently small transaction.
But we're active we're opportunistic and we don't have anything that we target from a size of an acquisition or a timing of an acquisition but we continue to be quite active in the pursuit of those opportunities.
Our next question comes from Dan Mannes from Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First just I want to focus a little bit more on Q1 as well on the electric side.
Given that the -- as far as I can see this is the strongest quarterly revenue you've ever put up and you put it up in the first quarter.
But just wondering if there was any material impact either from maybe counter seasonal work in Canada? Or number two was there any sort of post-Sandy work that maybe fell through in the first quarter that was maybe more or better than previously anticipated? Yes.
I would say that there was probably limited post-Sandy work going into the first quarter.
Most of that was completed in early December.
The seasonal -- the performance in the first quarter I think it's just good execution and good weather throughout the country.
I mean we've got a significant amount of activity going on in Texas.
We'd have great production on CREZ great production in California and other parts of the country.
So it's just overall having good weather elements over the -- on average on 17 projects throughout North America and great execution.
So we're very pleased with the results and then hopefully we'll be able to continue that into the next few quarters and beyond.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then a quick follow-up on that.
With some of the CREZ work winding down I think some of it wound down in the first quarter in Lone Star and some of it maybe later in the year and then a big pickup in Canada.
How mobile is your labor force in terms of project management? Or how do you manage that internally given pretty different geographies for this work? Yes I mean that's one thing that I would say that we excel at is moving resources across the country to mobilize on opportunities that come to us.
And we're not concerned at all right now.
I mean we feel that we still have the ability to take on additional work even at today's level of activity and we'll continue to pursue opportunities.
If we can get the right margins in projects we'll certainly pursue them in the future.
Our next question comes from Noelle Dilts from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First on looking at transition orders I know a few folks have cited how strong they were.
But if I strip out the Island Falls Key Lake project in Eastern Alberta it actually looks like order is kind of outside of the identical -- identifiable projects over the past few quarters have slowed a bit and that seems counter to what you're saying.
So I'm just -- I want to know if that's attributable mostly just to lumpiness or if you have any thoughts on that? It's lumpy.
I mean and that's one thing we try to convey and communicate every quarter is that large project awards can be lumpy quarter-over-quarter and you have to look at the long term.
And we've continued to say that our Electric Segment backlog will remain strong going forward and we do not see any fundamental changes in the drivers of transmission over the next year and we'll continue to say that.
So you can't get caught up in not seeing any awards in the quarter or if you get 3 or 4 awards in the quarter it doesn't mean we're going to grow at 50% or 80% like we did last year either.
So you just -- it's going to be strong going forward.
And until we see otherwise we'll continue to communicate that same message.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then secondly I appreciated your comment when you talked about being disciplined on bidding on some of these larger pipeline projects.
I'm just curious as you -- I think we've seen a lot of smaller and large projects but NGL-type products -- projects in the south that you don't really participate in but some of your maybe more competitive competitors do.
So I was curious have you seen some of that capacity tightened up? Are you starting to see more disciplined bidding on some of these jobs? Are you seeing just any change in how competitive that bidding is? And also we've heard quite a bit about a shift toward more negotiations away from competitive bid.
And can you comment on if you're seeing that trend in the industry? I would say capacity in the industry is tight and one of the big drivers is that a lot of the big pipe or mainline resources are mobilized in shales doing gathering work.
We're going to continue to remain disciplined in bidding and only pursue opportunities where we believe we have the right margins in projects to mitigate the risk of doing those jobs.
And I don't see -- I think that as far as negotiated work and so forth I would just say that we're not seeing that right now.
It's the traditional bidding environment but probably with only the players that customers have the comfort that they've got the capacity to carry out the capital programs in the future because it is a tight market.
We have a follow-up question from Craig Irwin from Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> Just a housekeeping question.
I noticed you bumped your CapEx guidance for the year.
Can you comment about whether this is due to limited availability of equipment out of the rental houses.
Maybe if there's something specific that had you increase your capital requirements for the year if this is maybe something for gas or electric power or if this is just due to greater project activity possibly in the back end of the year or next year? Yes this is Derrick.
Actually it's really none of those.
It's us moving forward on the development of a training facility.
We've committed this year to put forward some obviously $10 million to $15 million for the development of a training facility which will be used for both pipeline group and our electric power group which we think provides us a much more steady and reliable location to provide that training to our employees.
And at the same time we ultimately think it will reduce our cash out-of-pocket costs associated with any of that training.
There appears to be no further questions.
Please continue with any other points you wish to raise.
I'd like to thank you all for participating in our first quarter 2013 conference call.
We appreciate your questions and your ongoing interest in Quanta Services.
Thank you.
This concludes our call.
This concludes the Quanta Services First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Thanks for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Quanta Services First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call on the 1st of May.
[Operator Instructions] I would now hand over the conference to Kip Rupp.
Please go ahead sir.
Great.
Thanks Rodney and welcome everyone to the Quanta Services conference call to review first quarter results.
Before I turn the call over to management I have the normal housekeeping details to run through.
If you would like to have Quanta's news releases and other information emailed to you when they occur please sign up for email information alerts by going to the Investors &amp; Media section of Quanta Services' website at quantaservices.com.
In addition Quanta has an Investor Relations app for iPhone iPad and Android mobile devices which is available for free at Apple's App Store and at Google Play.
The Quanta Investor Relations app allows users to navigate the company's investor relations materials including the latest press releases SEC filings presentations videos audiocasts conference calls and stock price information.
A replay of today's call will be available on Quanta's website at quantaservices.com.
In addition a telephonic recorded instant replay will be available for the next 7 days 24 hours a day that can be accessed as set forth in the press release.
Please remember that information reported on this call speaks only as of today May 1 2014.
And therefore you are advised that any time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate as of the time of any replay of this call.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements intended to qualify under the Safe Harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements include all statements reflecting Quanta's expectations intentions assumptions or beliefs about future events or performance or that do not solely relate to historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements involve certain risks uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or are beyond Quanta's control and actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements.
Management cautions that you should not place undue reliance on Quanta's forward-looking statements and Quanta does not undertake and disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements based on new information future events or otherwise.
For additional information concerning some of the risks uncertainties and assumptions that could affect Quanta's forward-looking statements please refer to the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 and its other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission which may be obtained on Quanta's website or through the SEC's website at sec.gov.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jim O'Neil Quanta's President and CEO.
Jim? Thank you Kip.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Quanta Services First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
I will start the call with an operational overview before turning it over to Derrick Jensen Quanta's Chief Financial Officer who will provide a detailed review of our first quarter results.
Following Derrick's comments we welcome your questions.
Revenues increased approximately 11% in the first quarter as compared to last year's first quarter which reflect solid demand for our services safe project execution and Quanta's leadership position in the energy infrastructure marketplace.
Our operations performed well in what is typically our most seasonally challenged quarter.
Excluding the effects of the unusual charge taken in the first quarter profitability grew and margins expanded as compared to the same quarter last year.
Total backlog increased to a record $9 billion at quarter end up nearly 29% year-over-year.
Our employee count at the end of the first quarter increased 9.4% from year-end 2013 to a record 22 846.
Man hours in the first quarter increased 16.1% over the same period last year.
For the second quarter we anticipate a late breakup or seasonal thaw in Canada and in northern parts of the United States.
The extreme cold temperatures and the duration of the frigid weather in the first quarter in the northern climes has created [indiscernible] in some areas up to 8 feet.
We currently have significant electric transmission and pipeline work underway in these affected areas and anticipate some negative impact to production as the breakup occurs.
As we have stated previously quarter-over-quarter dynamics including the timing of project awards and starts as well as weather can create variances in the short term.
However I want to communicate that we remain comfortable with our full year 2014 guidance adjusting for the unusual charge recorded in the first quarter of this year.
Derrick will provide more detail about our second quarter and full year guidance in his commentary.
As it relates to our full year expectations we have strong visibility into significant work that could drive backlog to new record levels throughout the year.
We anticipate large project awards for both our Electric Power and Oil and Gas Infrastructure segments in the coming months some of which we believe will begin construction this year.
We continue to see the size scope and complexity of projects increase at unprecedented levels.
Quanta anticipates this changing market -- anticipated this change in market dynamics and positioned the company throughout the last several years to capitalize on these strengths.
We focused on developing our people project management capabilities equipment and technology advancements and also expanded the breadth of our services all while remaining -- maintaining a strong balance sheet.
Our customers seek reliable end-to-end solutions and clearly see the value proposition that Quanta delivers which we believe is unmatched in the industry.
As a result we estimate that our win rate on customer infrastructure programs that involve large complex and/or multiyear solutions is increasing.
In this environment we believe Quanta is the contractor of choice.
For example FirstEnergy which is one of the nation's largest utilities selected Quanta as its preferred supplier of transmission and substation construction services for its $4.2 billion 4-year Energizing the Future capital program.
This program is designed to support system reliability as coal-fired power plants are retired; increase FirstEnergy's low-serving capability in areas where future economic growth is anticipated particularly in Ohio's shale gas regions; improve reliability of service; create more flexibility to restore service following storms; reduce line losses; and lower overall transmission maintenance cost.
This is a large complex multi-year program where Quanta can provide a solution to safely complete First Energy's program on time and on budget.
Turning to electric distribution.
Due to spending reductions during the last recession and the significant allocation of capital to transmission utility distribution investment has been inadequate.
Major weather events over the past few years have highlighted system integrity and reliability challenges.
As a result we are seeing significant reinvestment in distribution assets across North America.
The utilities are implementing system-hardening initiatives to better resist severe storm events and utility regulators are increasingly showing a willingness to allow favorable rate treatment for those distribution upgrades.
In addition utilities are enhancing distribution networks as distributed generation demand response and other technologies are deployed.
New-home construction strength in some markets is driving distribution activity as well.
We continue to add distribution crews to our customers' distribution systems because of these dynamics.
Over the past year Quanta has experienced a strong double-digit increase in distribution MSA backlog.
We see opportunity for double-digit distribution revenue growth for the next several years as a result.
We continue to believe the market for our Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services remain dynamic for at least the next couple of years.
The unconventional shale plays in the Canadian oil sands are reshaping the North American energy market and could require hundreds of billions of dollars in spending over the next several decades on new infrastructure required to gather and move hydrocarbons to markets throughout North America.
ICF International a consulting and professional services firm with expertise in energy infrastructure recently updated their 2011 report regarding expected North American midstream infrastructure investment.
From a high level the updated report predicts greater levels of North American hydrocarbon production than their 2000 report -- 2011 report and greater levels of midstream infrastructure investment to meet supply needs.
And looking at the 2014 versus the 2011 report on a comparable basis North American midstream investment is now expected to total over $311 billion and average annual North American midstream investment is anticipated to be $14.1 billion per year from 2014 through 2035 which is a 34% increase versus the 2011 study.
Similar to Electric Power we believe Quanta is uniquely positioned to capitalize on these oil and gas infrastructure opportunities.
As a leading pipeline construction company with extensive engineering program management manpower and equipment capabilities we have the scope and scale across North America.
Coupled with our reputation track record and customer relationships we are well positioned to be an important participant during this historic time in the North American oil and gas markets.
Now let's transition to our Fiber Optic Licensing segment.
Our lit service rollout is underway in northeast markets and we are meeting deployment objectives.
We recently completed the deployment of our mesh network which enables us to provide additional lit services and reach more customers in our target markets.
As previously discussed 2014 is a transition year for this segment as we deploy our lit services offering.
Our lit services expansion has been well received by both existing and potential customers.
We expect robust growth in lit service revenues over the coming years across the enterprise verticals.
However our dark fiber services remains this segment's largest revenue contributor.
Demand for our dark fiber services remains strong in the K-12 and carrier markets.
We will continue to expand our dark fiber network over time which will -- which we believe will fuel demand for our lit services.
In summary while unusual items impacted first quarter results end-market drivers remain firmly in place.
Demand for our specialty infrastructure services is strong.
We have visibility into significant new project awards this year that could drive higher levels of backlog and our multi-year outlook remains positive.
We are expanding and developing our employee base and broadening our service offerings to meet our customers' growing needs and we are executing on strategies that differentiate Quanta and position the company for both the near- and long-term growth.
We continue to believe that we are in unprecedented times not only in Quanta's history but in the history of the electric power and oil and gas industries.
As a result we continue to see the opportunity for double-digit growth over at least the next 2 years.
I will now turn the call over to Derrick Jensen our CFO for his financial review of the first quarter.
Derrick? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
Today we announced revenues of $1.76 billion for the first quarter of 2014 compared to $1.59 billion in the prior year's first quarter reflecting an increase of 11% in quarter-over-quarter revenue.
Net income attributable to common stock for the quarter was $54.4 million or $0.25 per diluted share as compared to $72.1 million or $0.34 per diluted share in the first quarter of last year.
Included in net income attributable to common stock for the first quarter of 2014 is an aggregate $38.8 million or $25.8 million net of tax incremental selling general and administrative expense associated with an adverse arbitration decision regarding a contract dispute with National Gas Company of Trinidad and Tobago on a directional drilling project that occurred in 2010.
The net impact of this decision on our first quarter 2014 results was a $0.12 reduction in diluted earnings per share.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share which excludes this and certain other items as calculated in today's press release was $0.44 for the first quarter of 2014 as compared to adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.38 for the first quarter of 2013.
The increase in consolidated revenues in the first quarter of 2014 was primarily due to an 8% increase in revenues from our Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment and a 24% increase in revenues from our Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services segment.
Our consolidated gross margin was 15.4% in the first quarter of 2014 as compared to 15% in the first quarter of 2013.
This increase in gross margin was primarily a result of improved performance in the Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services segment as well as higher revenues earned from both the Electric Power and Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services segments during the current period which improved these segments' ability to cover fixed operating costs.
Selling general and administrative expenses as presented in this quarter's press release were $134.5 million in the first quarter of 2014 reflecting an increase of $20.8 million as compared to last year's first quarter.
This increase is primarily attributable to $13.6 million in incremental general and administrative costs and $3.9 million in higher acquisition and integration costs all associated with companies acquired since the first quarter of 2013.
As a percentage of revenue selling general and administrative expenses increased to 7.6% in the first quarter of 2014 from 7.2% in the first quarter of 2013 primarily due to the impact of the higher acquisition and integration costs.
Our consolidated operating margin before amortization expense of 5.6% for 1Q '14 was impacted by 220 basis points due to the arbitration expense but was otherwise comparable to the 7.9% margin in 1Q '13.
Amortization of intangible assets increased from $5.3 million in 1Q '13 to $8.2 million in the first quarter of 2014 due to amortization of additional intangible assets associated with acquisitions that have closed since the first quarter of last year.
To further discuss our segment results the Electric Power segment's revenues were $1.28 billion reflecting an increase of $97.2 million quarter-over-quarter or approximately 8%.
Revenues were positively impacted by approximately $69 million in revenues generated by acquired companies and from increased capital spending by our customers partially offset by a lower quarter-over-quarter conversion rate of the Canadian results of operations.
As Jim mentioned the first quarter was impacted by frigid weather throughout much of North America.
This compares to the first quarter of last year which had mild weather and favorable working conditions that better accommodated production and allowed for certain work to be accelerated out of last year's second quarter into the first.
Despite the weather effects of this year's first quarter we continued to execute and operating margin in the Electric Power segment increased to 11.3% in the first quarter of 2014 as compared to 11.2% in last year's first quarter.
12-month and total backlog increased both quarter-over-quarter and sequentially for the Electric Power segment.
Sequentially 12-month backlog increased slightly from the end of the fourth quarter of 2013.
However total backlog increased 3.7% to a record $6.19 billion.
Oil and Gas Infrastructure segment revenues increased quarter-over-quarter by 24% to $445.9 million in 1Q '14 as a result of revenue contributions of approximately $118.9 million from companies acquired since the first quarter of 2013.
This favorable impact was partially offset by lower revenues related to midstream projects during the first quarter of 2014 as compared to first quarter of 2013 due to project timing as well as the same weather dynamics discussed relative to the Electric Power segment.
Operating income for the Oil and Gas Infrastructure segment as a percentage of revenues decreased to negative 4.7% in 1Q '14 from 2.9% in 1Q '13.
This decrease was due to the arbitration expense mentioned previously which impacted the segment by 870 basis points.
Partially offsetting this expense were higher margins due to the contribution of greater mainline pipe revenues during the quarter which typically offer higher margin opportunities.
Also impacting the first quarter was additional expense resulting from an increase in our estimated withdrawal liability associated with the Central States Pension Plan based on certain withdrawal scenarios that increased our estimated range of probable liability.
Although we continue to believe that we effected a complete withdrawal in 2012 and will seek to challenge and further negotiate the amount owed in connection with this matter based upon available information we recorded an adjustment to cost of services during the 3 months ended March 31 2014 to increase the recognized withdrawal liability to amount within the revised range of estimated probability.
The negative impact to operating income within the Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services segment associated with the increase in the Central States withdrawal liability was offset this quarter by the favorable settlement of certain contract change orders during the period.
Total backlog for the Oil and Gas Infrastructure segment at the end of the first quarter of 2014 is up 2.8% as compared to 4Q '13.
Contributing to the increase in backlog is approximately $200 million from acquisitions closed during the quarter.
Offsetting this increase is the burn on current projects which were not replaced with new project awards during the quarter.
However as Jim mentioned in his prepared remarks we see the potential for significant project award announcements later in the year.
Our Fiber Optic Licensing and Other segment revenues were down $7.2 million or 16% to $38.5 million in 1Q '14 as compared to $45.8 million in 1Q '13 due to lower levels of ancillary telecommunication service revenues as certain larger projects completed in the prior year did not recur to the same extent in 2014.
Operating margin was 31.4% in 1Q '14 as compared to 36.9% in 1Q '13 as a result of the telecom work performed in 2014 having a lower margin profile than last year as well as a slightly higher network maintenance cost during the current period on our dark fiber network and start-up costs associated with our new lit service offerings.
Corporate and unallocated costs increased $4.4 million in the first quarter of 2014 as compared to 1Q '13 primarily as a result of $3.9 million in higher acquisition and integration costs $2.7 million in higher consulting and other business development fees and a $2.9 million increase in amortization expense related to 2014 and 2013 acquisitions.
These increases were partially offset by lower incentive compensation quarter-over-quarter associated with current levels of operating activity and profitability.
EBITA for the first quarter of 2014 was $95.1 million or 5.4% of revenues compared to $119.3 million or 7.5% of revenues for the first quarter of 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA was $185.6 million or 10.5% of revenues for the first quarter of 2014 compared to $159.8 million or 10.1% of revenues for the first quarter of 2013.
The calculation of EBITA EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA all non-GAAP measures and the definitions of these and days sales outstanding or DSOs can be found in the Investors &amp; Media section of our website at quantaservices.com.
For the first quarter of 2014 cash flow used in operations was approximately $61 million and net capital expenditures were approximately $69 million resulting in approximately $130 million of negative free cash flow as compared to negative free cash flow of approximately $12 million for the first quarter of 2013.
The decline in free cash flow was primarily driven by higher working capital requirements during the first quarter as ramp-up occurred on specific electric power transmission projects and weather-related delays in parts of North America and the timing of project closeouts affected achievement of certain billing milestones.
These increased working capital needs also negatively impacted our DSOs which were 80 days at March 31 2014 compared to 72 days at December 31 2013 and 77 days at March 31 2013 adjusted for the reclass of the Sunrise change order.
Other impacts -- other items that impacted investment [ph] cash flows during the first quarter of 2014 include the closing of 5 acquisitions for aggregate consideration of $116.5 million including the use of approximately $79.9 million in cash.
As it relates to the arbitration expense recorded in the first quarter we currently anticipate the second quarter cash settlement of this obligation net of tax benefits to be approximately $15.4 million.
At March 31 2014 we had about $213 million in letters of credit outstanding primarily to secure our insurance program and we had no borrowings outstanding under our credit facility.
In addition at the end of the quarter we had approximately $273 million in cash with approximately $134 million in U.S.
funds and $139 million relating to our foreign operations.
Considering our cash on hand and availability under our credit facility we have nearly $1.38 billion in total liquidity as of March 31 2014.
Concerning our outlook for 2014 we expect revenues for the second quarter of 2014 to range between $1.7 billion and $1.9 billion and diluted earnings per share to be $0.35 to $0.37 on a GAAP basis.
These estimates compare to revenues of $1.47 billion and GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.33 in the second quarter of 2013.
Our GAAP EPS forecast for the second quarter of 2014 includes an estimate of $8.3 million for noncash stock-based compensation expense and $8.4 million for amortization expense.
Excluding these expenses our non-GAAP adjusted diluted earnings per share for the second quarter of 2014 is expected to be $0.40 to $0.42 and compares to our non-GAAP adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.38 in the second quarter of 2013.
As Jim briefly mentioned in his commentary we currently anticipate the weather aspects of the first quarter to carry over and impact our performance in the second quarter primarily in Canada and the northern regions of the U.S.
as we deal with breakup and very wet conditions as these areas thaw.
In addition the timing of projects including the transition of resources can impact margins.
We have factored these effects into our overall guidance for the second quarter but have not narrowed our overall diluted earnings per share range for the year as we continue to believe that the latter half of the year offers the opportunity for strong performance.
We continue to expect revenues for the full year 2014 to range between $7.4 billion and $7.8 billion.
We expect diluted earnings per share to be between $1.53 and $1.73 on a GAAP basis giving effect to the $0.12 per share impact of the previously mentioned arbitration decision on our annual estimates.
Our GAAP EPS forecast for 2014 includes an estimate of $35.5 million for noncash stock-based compensation expense and $33.3 million of amortization expense.
Excluding these expenses the arbitration expense and others comparable to our historical calculations our expectations for non-GAAP adjusted diluted earnings per share for the year of 2014 remain between $1.85 and $2.05.
This compares to $1.71 in 2013.
Our forecasted non-GAAP measures are estimated on a basis similar to the calculations of historical adjusted diluted earnings per share presented in our release.
We are currently forecasting net income attributable to non-controlling interests to be approximately $3 million to $4 million in the second quarter of 2014 and $13 million to $14 million for the year.
For additional guidance we are currently projecting our GAAP tax rate to be 34.5% to 35.5% for 2014 and our diluted share count to be about 219.8 million shares.
We expect CapEx for all of 2014 to be approximately $300 million to $325 million which includes CapEx for our Fiber Licensing and Other segment of about $50 million to $60 million.
This compares to CapEx for all of 2013 of $264 million.
Overall our capital priorities remain the same with a focus on ensuring adequate resources for working capital and capital expenditure growth and an opportunistic approach towards acquisitions investments and repurchases of stock.
This concludes our formal presentation and we'll now open the line for Q&amp;A.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Noelle Dilts of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I first want to -- just to go back to these potential large contract awards that you talked about potentially coming through in the next few months.
First in terms of mix are you seeing more of that on the pipeline side or the transition side? And can you talk about if you're seeing more of the opportunities in Canada or the U.S.? And then in conjunction with that last quarter you talked about needing to pick up some additional work to hit your pipeline targets.
Does what you're looking at here get you comfortably there? Noelle this is Jim.
I think it's a good mix of both both segments.
So it's probably 60-40 50-50.
It depends upon how it plays out but it -- but we expect large opportunities in both our Electric Power and Oil and Gas segments and also believe geographically it will come from 60-40 50-50 U.S.
and Canada.
So it's a good diversity of geographic and across both of our segments.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just given the strong pipeline outlook that you relayed in your comments can you talk about if you're starting to see some improvement in terms conditions pricing? Are you seeing a shift toward more negotiated work? Yes there's a mix.
But certainly we are having more advanced discussions with customers that take us away from our traditional bid-and-buy mentality and moving more towards negotiated-type multi-year programs that we talked about in my remarks more complex larger multi-year programs where there's more shared risk.
So yes the contract terms would be improving in those situations.
The next question comes from Tahira Afzal of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> First question is just to follow up on the earlier question on the large awards.
You mentioned in your press release you do expect some notable additions to backlog over the next couple of months and that's a fairly strong statement given you folks are pretty conservative.
So any color you can provide on what gives you the confidence on the visibility there would be helpful.
Well Tahira I just -- we're in various stages of negotiation which gives us the comfort that we can make those types of comments in our press release and in the script.
So they are advanced discussions many of them in the contract stage.
And we're having discussions with these customers exclusively.
So that brings us the confidence that these programs will turn into backlog sometime in the near future.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And second question is in regards to the second quarter guidance.
As you look back to when you set guidance did you kind of expect the weather issue and the sequential decline from first to second quarter to be of the extent potentially that we are seeing? And then if you could give us any color if possible on the acquisition how much they have potentially contributed to backlog for the quarter and in terms of whether you think they're notably accretive for the full year.
Tahira this is Derrick.
Relative to the second quarter I think if you recall from our previous conference call in the year-end discussion we had talked about the fact that we had to see how the weather effects would come out and looked at how those things would impact our overall production for the first half of the year when considering what we would be looking at for our margin profile overall as well as our view towards the second half of the year.
So yes there was definitely a degree of that factored into our original guidance as to what would happen here in the second quarter.
The breakup went a little bit longer so there's a degree of probably a little bit lower view into that second quarter than maybe we had at year end.
But we still think that as we look at the rest of the year we'll be able to make that up in the strong performance for the third and the fourth.
As it relates to the acquisitions the acquisitions were slightly accretive to the first quarter.
However they were baked into our original first quarter guidance so there's really no difference.
They were contemplated in our forecast.
And overall to the year all acquisitions we look for them to be some level of accretive and we do believe those acquisitions are contributing to the year at some degree.
The next question comes from Dan Mannes of Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> So not to belabor the point but I just want to make sure we're really clear here.
Given the guidance for the year given a solid first quarter and maybe a slightly softer-than-expected second quarter when you look at the bidding environment and the number of things you're talking about in terms of potential large wins how much is that needed in order to meet guidance versus how much would give you potential upside as you look in the back of the year especially in the context of a pretty strong track record the last couple of years of coming in ahead of initial guidance? Dan this is Derrick.
Relative to the high end of our range I mean there's a degree of uncommitted that is in the high end of our range kind of specifically on mainline pipe.
But there's always uncommitted across the whole spectrum.
So there's additional awards that we'd look at that will be needed for us to get to the high end of the range.
As to speak to how much is that and/or how much more could happen and whether that would allow us to exceed there are a lot of dynamics associated with those awards.
We need to look at getting them and then getting them in place and seeing at what point in time we can get to an execution stage in 2014 before we could really comment as to whether it causes us to increase our guidance or not.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just to -- just so I can clarify as it relates to M&amp;A it sounded like most of the M&amp;A impact from the first quarter was on the -- was on the oil and gas side.
I guess I was trying to understand -- I thought the number of acquisitions in the first quarter were going to be more electric.
Was that already baked in the guidance or is that -- has that helped fill in some of that uncommitted as well? Yes all of our acquisitions in the first quarter were baked into our year-end guidance from our last conference call.
The difference as it relates to the impact is that a big portion of the electric power acquisitions were subcontract work.
And so therefore there's a much less impact on the backlog component.
So that's why you see a larger impact on backlog on the pipeline side.
The next question comes from Jamie Cook of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
Just to clarify on the weather I know it was an issue in the first quarter to roll into the second quarter.
Can you give us some degree on the EPS impact or the operating income impact just so I can get a sense for how much you have to make up for the weather issues? And then I guess my second question is margins on the oil and gas side.
The first quarter was a little weaker than I would have thought but it sounds like given the order activity that you should improve throughout the year.
So how are you thinking about that? And then my last question should we assume better terms or pricing on these contracts that you're bidding on in particular because you're saying you're bidding on these exclusively? Jamie this is Derrick.
Relative to the first quarter coming from a weather perspective what I'd say is we came in at the -- near the top end of our -- or at the top end of our revenue range.
But we kind of came in at the midpoint of our EPS range.
So I think that kind of gives you a little bit of color.
The reality is the first quarter itself we were able to actually keep some degree of execution because of the fact that it was cold and stayed frozen.
And so we were able to get a degree of execution in the quarter.
Your second question was? Research Division</strong> My second question was just on the oil and gas side.
The margins in the first quarter were a little weaker than I would have thought.
But do you think you should get some improvement on -- particularly with orders -- order trends that you [indiscernible] how should we think about that? And then the last was the terms and conditions on the projects that you're bidding exclusively.
I would assume that they would be accretive to margins or mix.
Sure.
On the margins itself seasonality within the pipeline group is going to remain.
And so we would always expect the first quarter seasonality impacts to be such that margins within that segment will still be -- we would anticipate the lowest margins for the period.
We improved our margins this quarter versus last quarter.
I mean if you adjust for the charge I think you'll see something in the order of magnitude of kind of a 4% margin within the segment which is greater than the 2.8% we made last year.
So we did see improvement.
We expected to see some degree of improvement.
As we look to the rest of the year I think we can continue to see improvement similar to what you saw last year with each of the following quarters having a degree of upward movement.
And I would anticipate that that's the type of seasonality you'll see on a go-forward basis.
And Jamie on your third question I would say yes overall you will see better contract terms than we have historically had on these larger more complex multi-year programs that are going to come out here in the coming months.
The next question comes from Will Gabrielski of Stephens.
Research Division</strong> So I guess -- I mean I know there's a lot of noise in Q1 but the electric margin was up a little bit year-over-year.
And for a Q1 that definitely had a lot of weather across the Lower 48 and Canada seems pretty solid.
And I'm just wondering was there anything unique to the quarter? Or do you think we still grow off of Q1 just as weather improves? Or is there something new that's impacting Q1 that made that number better than we've seen in past years in Q1s? There was nothing that was particularly unusual to the Electric Power margins in Q1 from the standpoint of an unusual item.
I mean that came in 11.3% which as I commented just a second ago to a certain extent the long winter and the prolonged freeze helped production in a lot of the northern climates and it's -- and so what's happened is that some of that's otherwise pushed to second quarter.
As the breakup and thaw occurs that will impact us on the productivity more in the second.
I would say that in the electric segment to answer your other question we continue to see man hours increase in that segment.
There's an opportunity certainly with my comments about backlog growth.
Certainly I think that there are clear opportunities for us to grow revenues in this segment from this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to follow up Jim on the FirstEnergy comment you made around an alliance relationship or preferred supplier relationship with FirstEnergy particularly in Ohio I guess are there more of those conversations taking place? Because I remember I guess '07 '08 '09 it seemed like you announced a few of those big alliance-type relationships.
Are you seeing that more of a norm now? Is this very one-off? Or is there any color you can add around that type of relationship structure going forward? Well certainly we've always had those discussions in the past with customers.
But the opportunities are more today than they have been in the past because these programs are becoming so large and complex.
And the scope and scale and expertise and your track record is extremely important.
So we are seeing more opportunities for FirstEnergy-type relationships than what we have seen in the past going forward.
The next question comes from Alex Rygiel of FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Quick question.
You mentioned that distribution double-digit backlog growth double-digit revenue outlook for the next couple of years.
Can you comment on where the electric distribution margins are relative to reported Electric Power today and sort of what that incremental margin might look like over the next couple of years as revenues grow nicely? Alex I think that as we leverage our fixed costs in that business and as the labor workforce continues to tighten and as we continue to take over more of the service offerings not just provide maintenance services but more asset management and distribution which there's clear opportunities to do that for many of our distribution customers that your margin profile will approach that of what we make in transmission over time.
So one of the big misnomers is that when we do more distribution that our margins will erode because it's not as profitable as transmission.
That's just not the case.
We think that margins will improve as distribution continues to unfold over the next several years.
Research Division</strong> And secondly can you quantify your activity level on mainline pipe in sort of the first half of '14 versus the second half of '14? I don't know exactly how you want to quantify it but maybe talk about quantity of spreads deployed maybe in the first of the year versus the second half of the year.
Well we've been saying for quite some time that we believe that activity in mainline is going to accelerate in the second half of this year and certainly into '15.
And we believe that one of the big opportunities for us to increase revenues will be in that segment and in mainline in the second half of the year.
So as far as trying to equate how many spreads we're going to have out or how many jobs or what that looks like from a revenue standpoint I would say that it is a -- I would just say it's a significant increase in the second half of the year than what we've executed on in the first half of the year which is typically seasonal for that type of business.
I mean the business typically starts ramping in the second half -- in the second quarter of any given year and third quarter is where you really get a lot of good production because that's when you have your better weather during any calendar year.
The next question comes from Steven Fisher of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I just want to make sure the late breakup issue is not going to be a bigger problem than kind of what you're thinking at the moment.
So can you maybe just give a little more color on how many projects are affected what stages you are on those projects and really how I guess you've approached the budgeting for that and how comfortable you are that you've got the cost budgeted accurately? Well Steve in the past we've said we've taken a prudent approach on guidance and we tried to bake in any impacts to the breakup so that we don't have any surprises.
I mean we have a significant amount of activity going on in Canada.
We're probably on 4 or 5 major projects in various phases.
Also we're very active in the Northeast U.S.
So it's -- and projects are in various phases.
Some will be completed throughout the year some are multi-year projects.
So -- but I would just say that the message from us is that we've tried to bake in any effects of breakup production issues in the guidance that we provided to you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it sounds like you're looking for a pickup in the second half to offset the breakup issues to get to the guidance.
So I guess what are the most important things that still have to happen in the second half? Is it more execution or is it more new bookings? And if it's new bookings are you counting on some of the bigger projects or is it the pace of regional work? Steve this is Derrick.
The reality is I think that we typically expect the second half of the year to be a more productive period for us.
Our -- from a seasonality perspective the third quarter tends to be the largest revenue period.
We still anticipate that as of today.
Typically the fourth quarter falls off a little which we still anticipate today.
But I think the combination of those things from a total volume perspective will well exceed what we see here in the first and second quarter.
And as part of that and it's typical that that leads to our ability to have higher margins both because of the volume as well as the fact that those weather dynamics allow us to typically have an expanded margin profile.
So I think we'll still be very much within the margin profile that we've talked about.
We -- in the last quarter we talked about Electric Power being able to be in that 10% to 12% margin range and we still believe that as well as on the pipeline side that on the upper end of the range we'll be able to see margins at -- to get within that 9%.
So that I think is still very similar to our guidance that we provided previously.
So we're comfortable that those -- that profile can still exist in the second half of the year.
The next question comes from Vishal Shah of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Derrick can you talk about the free cash flow outlook for the year? I know you had a positive free cash flow for the first quarter.
But as you sort of think about some of these projects big projects I mean how should we think about the free cash flow? And also where do you think any potential opportunity lies on the M&amp;A front? Is it oil and gas is it Canada? Can you talk about some of the outlook there? Sure.
We typically stay away from providing free cash flow guidance.
I can tell you that I think it's got the opportunity to be comparable to 2013 but it's highly dependent upon the fourth quarter.
The fourth quarter of last year we had a very strong free cash flow because of the timing of roll-offs starts and stops of projects et cetera.
But the weather dynamics the -- any of the individual acquisitions project starts and stops a lot of the work that -- opportunities that Jim has spoken about for new awards and the timing of those can impact.
So I caveat it heavily but I think you can see it's possible for it to be comparable with 2013.
We -- from an acquisition perspective we still consider ourselves to be highly acquisitive.
We've done a number of acquisitions up to the end of '13 and even in the first part of this year thus far.
I think that overall for '14 we could see acquisition dynamics while somewhat comparable to 2013 both from a contribution of revenue and total number of acquisitions and spend as far as cash and stock split is probably somewhat comparable.
As to the -- where they'll fall we continue to be opportunistic both on whether they're Electric Power side or the pipeline side.
I think that you'll see that they're probably going to be within those 2 segments for certain.
But we're going to approach it opportunistically and I don't know that I could say where you'll see a greater number of acquisitions between the 2.
The next question comes from Adam Thalhimer of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> First question.
I wanted to ask about the U.S.
transmission bidding.
It's been a while since we've seen large awards from the public contractors.
I'm just curious what the bidding activity is like for larger transmission jobs in the U.S.
Well we had several awards I believe in the second half of last year.
So we've had a quarter here where we have had not much activity but that's not unusual.
We do think that there are -- from a dollar standpoint there's many opportunities out there in the -- that could be announced in the next year that we've never seen before in history.
So it's still a very active transmission market in both the U.S.
and in Canada.
And certainly we see opportunities for growth in the Electric segment which is being driven by primarily transmission.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I wanted to ask about the programs.
Like with FirstEnergy you said that was $4.2 billion over 4 years.
What percentage of that could turn into revenue for Quanta? I mean is it in the maybe 50% range? Yes.
Rule of thumb -- I mean you've got engineering materials in that number.
It's probably less than that.
It's probably in the 35% to 40% range but it could be as much as 50% depending upon the customer and how much the material and engineering dynamic is.
The next question comes from Craig Irwin of Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> Jim I was hoping you could update us on the number of large electric transmission projects you're executing right now and how these are likely to transition this year the number completing the number starting up by the end of the year.
Individual transmission projects at average over $100 million in size.
We have been consistently running between 16 to 18 projects.
We were on the same number of projects in the second quarter of last year as we'll be on the second quarter of this year.
And we don't anticipate that number moving in the near term.
We think it will hold at that level.
Research Division</strong> My second question was about some of the combined cycle opportunities.
Obviously it's a new market for you and pretty attractive long-term market.
Can you maybe discuss with us how things are progressing there for Quanta.
And maybe the potential project pipeline that you're looking at as far as whether or not you think that there could be incremental bookings in '14 or if this is something where we have to wait for more significant momentum? You know Craig I look at this almost like our utility-scale Solar.
We're opportunistic there and we take advantage of the opportunities when they come.
I can't go out to say that we're going to be a 20% growth or double-digit growth year-over-year for the next 2 years in that business because the opportunities are spotty.
But when they come like the one in Alaska that we announced earlier this year we're certainly excited about the opportunity to build those programs and -- but I can't tell you whether that business is going to have a steady growth profile to it or not.
The next question comes from John Rogers of D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> First thing Jim in terms of large project opportunities you've been referring to how much of that work that you could book here is '15 '16 potentially? I mean how much visibility are we potentially getting here? On most of the electric projects they would -- many of them would start in '14.
And some of them are multi-year bid multi-year programs.
I would say that probably half of the ones that we're looking at are multi-year programs and half are probably -- will take a year to complete.
Research Division</strong> And on the pipeline? Pipeline is probably the same maybe more a multi-year component to them than one-off projects.
But there are some projects that are 3 or 4 months that we're looking at potentially being awarded and there's also some multi-year programs that we're looking at as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up can you give us a quick update on what you're seeing in the offshore market in terms of acquisition opportunities there? Yes.
I wouldn't say so much acquisition opportunities per se.
I would say that the market itself is extremely active and continues to provide opportunities.
And it is going to grow at or more than what the segment is projected to grow at.
So we're pretty excited about that.
We're being prudent in our approach there as it is -- relatively it's an adjacent market.
I would say that more of our acquisition opportunities are in our core business.
But there are certainly opportunities offshore and we're going to take advantage of those as well.
The next question comes from Andy Wittmann of Baird.
Research Division</strong> I want to just dig a little bit more into the pipeline business and kind of the market dynamic there.
It's coming into your income statement a bit.
Where is it for the industry? Where's the industry being utilized for large-diameter pipeline stage? And do you have a sense of that and what's the implication for that for your pricing? Are you getting similar or favorable terms in the pipelines like you are in the electric business that you referred to earlier? Yes.
I think like I mentioned earlier on future work that we're looking at the ramp at the end of '14 and into '15.
We're in the very early stages of this ramp-up.
So I think what's been done historically is different than what we're going to see going forward.
And the projects going forward I think overall you're going to see better contract terms on those programs.
Research Division</strong> Does that mean not fixed price or does that just mean guaranteed maximum of...
It's a mix.
I mean you could get better contract terms to where you're sharing downside risk it could be some cost-plus programs some are fixed-price with the floors on risk sharing.
So it's just a mix of things.
But overall though there's more risk sharing between the customer and the contractor especially on the multi-year programs.
Research Division</strong> And just maybe a couple of quick technical questions.
Can you give us the acquired T&amp;D backlog if any as well as the storm contribution Derrick? Yes.
The backlog for T&amp;D from acquisition for the first quarter was relatively minor.
It was about $25 million.
And then storm we did a little over $30 million this quarter which is comparable to the first quarter last year.
The next question comes from Brian Lee of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess as a follow-up to that last one thanks for breaking out the quantification on the backlog impact Derrick.
On the acquisitions though how should we think going forward about the organic growth opportunities you guys are looking at to continue to add to what's been robust backlog growth versus acquiring backlog adds? I guess I'm wondering is it unfair to assume most of the backlog additions in recent quarters have come from acquisitions and if that will continue to be the trend? No I think that most of Jim's commentary has been about the opportunity for organic backlog growth of -- for the remainder of the year.
That's where we think the vast majority of our backlog growth will potentially come from over the next 3 to 6 9 months.
And then relative -- from an acquisition perspective the backlog contributions varies.
As an example like I said the first quarter we had minimal backlog contributions because some of that stuff was subcontract-related versus the contribution directly from the acquisitions.
Research Division</strong> And maybe related to that -- and I apologize if you covered this I jumped on a bit late.
I might be misinterpreting this.
But if I heard you correctly I thought you had suggested that there might be a shift here toward more distribution-related power project activity versus transmission going forward.
I guess if that's the case can you help us understand the competitive environment and maybe the margin delta you expect between the distribution versus transmission and how that would impact your ability to maintain current segment margins and/or expand them if that is going to be the trend? Well we believe that distribution will grow at the same pace that transmission is growing.
It's probably -- I mean obviously distribution is a smaller part of the segment but they should both grow at the same percentages over the next couple of years.
The competitive environment we're on many customer systems.
We've been on many customer systems for years.
It's -- most of that increase is our existing customer base increasing the number of crews that they have working our crews that are working because they just have more work to do.
And we have won a couple of new distribution contracts from new customers which is part of that growth as well.
But I see distribution and transmission growing at the same rate which is double-digit growth opportunities.
The next question comes from Jon Braatz of Kansas City Capital.
Jim question.
The -- you talked about the increasing complexity and sophistication of the transmission work that's coming down -- coming ahead.
And I guess my question is -- at the same time you mentioned that you're earning a greater margin on that business.
Is that margin reflective of you're one of the few companies that can do this work? Or are you assuming a little bit higher risk profile on these projects and that accounts for a little bit higher margin? I think mostly we're being -- we're involved more with the customer from planning these programs from a constructibility standpoint.
We have the resources and the scope and scale to accomplish these large-scope projects in the timeline that they need to accomplish them.
We're providing a broader solution to these customers to give them more predictability that their projects will get finished on time and on schedule where others have had issues doing that.
So when you provide more solutions to a customer than a discrete service the opportunity to -- for that customer to see that value creates the opportunity for us to make slightly better margins on those programs.
Okay.
So no -- not really a higher risk profile then? Well when you take over more -- you're going to take over more risks when you take over more of those services providing solutions.
These projects are more complex so the contractor does have more risk.
But we do believe that that risk is mitigated.
We have an excellent track record since our inception of performing electric transmission programs and don't anticipate any issues.
The more risky your project is whether it's in a more environmentally-sensitive area or a more difficult geographical terrain the further that differentiates us from your competitor because you are taking more risk.
But we like that we do that very well and we believe we mitigate those risks very well also.
There are no further questions.
Are there any further points you wish to raise? Well I would just like to thank all of you for participating in our first quarter 2014 conference call.
We appreciate your questions and your ongoing interest in Quanta Services.
Thank you and this concludes our call.
Good day and welcome to the Quanta Services First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Kip Rupp.
Please go ahead sir.
Great.
Thank you Taylor and welcome everyone to the Quanta Services' conference call to review first quarter 2015 results.
Before I turn the call over to management I have the normal housekeeping details to run through.
If you would like to have Quanta news releases and other information emailed to you when they occur please sign up for email information alerts by going to the Investors &amp; Media section of the Quanta Services website at quantaservices.com.
You can also access Quanta's latest earnings releases and other investor material such as press releases SEC filings presentations videos audio-cast conference calls and stock price information with the Quanta Services Investor Relations app which is available for iPhone iPad and Android mobile devices for free at Apple's App Store and Google Play.
A replay of today's call will be available on Quanta's website at quantaservices.com.
In addition a telephonic recorded instant replay will be available for the next 7 days 24 hours a day that can be accessed as set forth in the press release.
Please remember that information reported on this call speaks only as of today April 30 2015.
Therefore you are advised that any time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate as of the time of any replay of this call.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements intended to qualify under the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements include all statements reflecting Quanta's expectations intentions assumptions or beliefs about future events or performance that do not solely relate to historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements involve certain risks uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or beyond Quanta's control.
And actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements.
For additional information concerning some of the risks uncertainties and assumptions that could affect Quanta's forward-looking statements please refer to the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 and its other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission which may be obtained on Quanta's website or through the SEC's website at sec.gov.
Management cautions that you should not place undue reliance on Quanta's forward-looking statements.
And Quanta does not undertake and disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements based on new information future events or otherwise and disclaims any written or oral statements made by any third party regarding the subject matter of this call.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jim O'Neil Quanta's President and CEO.
Jim? Thank you Kip and good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Quanta Services First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
I will start the call with an operational overview before turning it over to Derrick Jensen Quanta's Chief Financial Officer who will provide a detailed review of our first quarter results.
Following Derrick's comments we welcome your questions.
Revenues in the first quarter increased approximately 7% as compared to last year's first quarter.
However earnings per share came in below our expectations.
Our earnings shortfall was due to several factors.
The largest contributor was various weather dynamics occurring throughout Canada on several major electric transmission projects.
We experienced an early fall in Alberta continuous heavy snow in Newfoundland and dense fog in northern Saskatchewan.
In our previous estimates for the quarter we had considered weather effects on these projects.
However in each of these areas the impact to our production was more prolonged than expected.
Other factors that impacted our first quarter results as well as details about our annual guidance which we revised downward to take into account the first quarter results will be covered by Derrick in detail in his commentary.
Despite the challenging quarter we believe the industry drivers that have fueled the electric power segment's growth over the past several years have not changed and will continue for at least the next several years.
For example according to a report released last week from the WIRES Group since 2010 U.S.
transmission investment has ranged from $10 billion to $16 billion per year.
And despite year-to-year fluctuations transmission spending is forecasted to remain at high levels through the year 2030.
Our utility customers have made significant investment in their electric power infrastructure throughout North America and we expect continued strong levels of investment by utilities in transmission and distribution infrastructure going forward.
Most of our top industrial and utility customers have forecasted an increase in their capital spending on transmission and distribution infrastructure over the next several years.
Additionally the size scope and complexity of projects are increasing.
We anticipated this change in market dynamics and have positioned our company to capitalize on these trends.
As a result we have been awarded transmission projects such as Nalcor's Muskrat Falls and Labrador-Island Link projects in the Fort McMurray West concession in Alberta.
The aggregate contracted revenue of these projects is in excess of $2 billion.
We expect additional projects of similar magnitude in both Canada and the United States in the coming years as North America's electric grid will continue to be developed for years if not decades.
For example we are encouraged by the California Independent [indiscernible] Operators or Cal ISO's Energy Imbalance Market initiative that was announced earlier this month and other efforts that will require grid solutions to deal with the intermittent generation resources in the western United States.
We believe Cal ISO's initiatives will result in the construction of major transmission programs designed to interconnect western states to enhance reliable power delivery in the region which should create a significant number of opportunities for Quanta.
Despite this robust activity the sighting and permitting of energy infrastructure including major electric transmission programs continues to be our customers' biggest challenge.
And we are encountering delays on certain projects that we previously expected to be awarded and moved to construction in the second half of 2015.
These delays have impacted our electric power segment growth rate expectations for this year but do not change our overall positive multi-year outlook for growth potential of this market.
The regulatory environment can delay projects and create pauses in our growth rate from time to time.
However we do not believe electric infrastructure spending has peaked and we do believe we are still in a multi-year growth cycle.
While it is frustrating when project delays happen typically it's not a question if the project will move forward but when.
While large transmission projects are high profile and attract a lot of attention we continue to seize opportunities to provide services in the sub transmission market that address system reliability substation hardening and the replacement of aging infrastructure.
We have visibility into a healthy mix of sub transmission and major transmission project opportunities on the horizon.
In addition our distribution services continue to grow as customers increase spending to upgrade aging infrastructure and to hardened systems to better withstand extreme weather events.
Third-party industry market data and our discussions with key customers support our belief that our electric power segment remains in a multi-year growth environment.
And we remain confident in our view that revenues and backlog will continue to increase over the next several years.
Turning your attention to our oil and gas infrastructure segment.
Revenues increased nicely compared to the same period last year and operating margins were favorable in what is typically a seasonally challenging quarter for the oil and gas infrastructure segment.
We continue to have a positive outlook for the mainline pipe market for at least the next 3 to 5 years.
Our customers' capital programs in this market are significant.
And we believe the number of mainline pipe projects that can move to construction this year and over the next several years is larger than we have ever seen since Quanta entered the mainline business.
A substantial majority of these mainline pipe projects have already secured contractual commitments for producers on a minimum volume or take-or-pay contracts and should move forward towards construction assuming required permits and approvals are obtained.
A noteworthy pipeline project that we secured in the first quarter is our turnkey engineering procurement and construction or EPC contract with SemGroup Corporation for the Maurepas Pipelines Project in Louisiana.
Engineering permitting right-of-way acquisition and material procurement has commenced for this project and construction is expected to begin in the third quarter of 2015 with completion expected in the third quarter of 2016.
Once completed the pipeline system should enable local refineries to integrate and optimize their operations and should provide the refineries with pipeline access to domestically produced crude oil.
This project is a good example of how the decline in oil prices can increase downstream demand for oil and have a positive impact on demand for new pipeline infrastructure.
Also this morning I am pleased to announce that Quanta has recently been selected by Columbia Pipeline Group a business unit of NiSource Inc.
for segment 2 of a major natural gas pipeline project.
Our scope of work includes right-of-way clearing and the construction of approximately 46 miles of new 36-inch diameter natural gas mainline pipe in Ohio and West Virginia.
Right-of-way clearing is expected to begin in the first quarter of 2017.
Mainline pipe construction is expected to begin in the spring of 2017 with project completion expected in the fourth quarter of 2017.
We achieved record backlog of $2.68 billion in our oil and gas infrastructure segment at the end of the first quarter.
We expect backlog to remain healthy throughout 2015 in this segment as we anticipate sizable mainline pipeline awards this year potentially offsetting the delays of certain electric power transmission project contract awards that I mentioned earlier.
Additionally we believe the increase in mainline project activity in 2015 will more than offset any decline in revenues we may experience in certain markets due to lower oil prices.
As a result we anticipate revenues and operating income growth in the oil and gas infrastructure segment this year.
Regarding our fiber optic licensing operations as announced this morning we have entered into a definitive agreement to sell our fiber optic licensing operations to Crown Castle International for approximately $1 billion in cash subject to various regulatory approvals and other customary conditions prior to closing.
We expect the transition to close by the end of this year.
I would like to thank all of our fiber optic licensing operation employees for their contribution to our organization over the past years.
This transaction enables us to enhance our strategic focus on energy infrastructure markets which we continue to believe will undergo substantial development in the coming years.
The purchase price represents a 15x trailing EBITDA multiple which recognizes the significant value these operations have created as part of Quanta.
Sunesys provided Quanta growth opportunities at high margins and a differentiated service offering which has always been appealing to Quanta.
Since our acquisition of Sunesys in 2007 the business has more than tripled in size.
Although we have continued to pursue various strategic initiatives within this space to continue to create incremental value we have been mindful of the increasingly competitive environment and market activity and felt that ultimately a more appropriate owner could better serve the growth opportunities for Sunesys.
With that in mind we concluded that the proceeds we will receive in this transaction offered our shareholders more certainty versus a changing market environment that added risk to Quanta's potential execution and we are pleased to have reached an agreement with Crown Castle.
In summary while our full year guidance was revised downward primarily to take into account the shortfalls that occurred in the first quarter we remain confident that the industry drivers of our electric power and oil and gas infrastructure segments remain intact.
In 2015 we anticipate some headwinds in our electric power segment primarily due to project delays associated with the regulatory environment.
However we believe any softness in the electric power segment this year could be offset by the robust environment for our oil and gas infrastructure segment driven by mainline pipe opportunities.
We continue to expand and develop our employee base and broaden our service offerings to meet our customers' growing needs.
And we are executing on strategies that differentiate Quanta and position the company for both near- and long-term growth.
Finally the definitive agreement to sell our fiber optic licensing operations comes at an opportune time.
It will enable us to enhance our strategic focus on energy infrastructure markets which we believe will undergo substantial development in the coming years.
With that I will now turn the call over to Derrick Jensen our CFO for his review of our financial results.
Derrick? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
Today we announced revenues of $1.89 billion for the first quarter of 2015 compared to $1.76 billion in the prior year's first quarter reflecting an increase of 7.1% in quarter-over-quarter revenues.
Net income attributable to common stock for the quarter was $53.5 million or $0.25 per diluted share as compared to $54.4 million or $0.25 per diluted share in the first quarter of last year.
Included in net income attributable to common stock for the first quarter of 2014 was an aggregate $38.8 million or $25.8 million net of tax of incremental selling general and administrative expense associated with an adverse arbitration decision regarding a contract dispute on a directional drilling project that occurred in 2010.
The net impact of this decision on our first quarter 2014 results was a $0.12 reduction in diluted earnings per share.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share which excludes this and certain other items as presented in today's press release was $0.31 for the first quarter of 2015 as compared to adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.44 for the first quarter of 2014.
Before I get into the broader financial discussion I'd like to provide a bit more color on our performance against expectations for the quarter.
Our lower-than-expected results can be categorized primarily in 3 components: the largest component is the impact on production of the various weather factors in Canada which Jim noted in his comments.
Our previous first quarter guidance of $0.31 to $0.37 per diluted share considered these factors.
However the number of days of productivity impacted for certain projects was as much as 2 to 3x our original estimates.
We would estimate that these impacts were roughly half of the shortfall against our expectations for the quarter.
An additional project-related variance was a power plant project which we've recorded at breakeven margins during the quarter as compared to our typical electric power margins.
Lastly largely due to the weather impacts of the first quarter our ratio of expected earnings from foreign operations to total earnings for the year is now lower which has the effect of increasing our overall tax rate for the year.
The combination of the impact from the power plant project and the change in the effective tax rate for the quarter was roughly $0.03.
We are currently evaluating potential change orders or claims in response to certain aspects of these projects' circumstances.
However none will reflect in our first quarter results.
Turning to a discussion of the broader release the increase in consolidated revenues in the first quarter of 2015 as compared to the same quarter last year was primarily due to a 39.3% increase in revenues from our Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services segment partially offset by a 4.1% decrease in revenues from our Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment.
Quantifying the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates between the quarters consolidated revenues and earnings were negatively impacted by approximately 4% when compared to the first quarter of last year.
Our consolidated gross margin was 13.4% in the first quarter of 2015 as compared to 15.4% in the first quarter of 2014.
This decrease was primarily due to the negative operational impacts I described previously.
Selling general and administrative expenses as presented in this quarter's earnings release were $150.2 million in the first quarter of 2015 reflecting an increase of $15.8 million as compared to the first quarter of 2014.
This increase is primarily due to $7.3 million in incremental G&amp;A costs associated with acquired companies and approximately $2.9 million in higher compensation and incentive costs associated with current levels of operations and $2.3 million in higher costs associated with ongoing technology and business development initiatives.
Selling general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues were 8% in the first quarter 2015 as compared to 7.6% in the first quarter of 2014.
This increase is primarily attributable to the reduced revenues associated with foreign currency exchange rates and its impact on the absorption of consolidated overhead costs.
Our consolidated operating margin before amortization expense was 5.4% for 1Q '15 and compares to a 5.6% consolidated operating margin before amortization expense in 1Q '14 which was impacted by 220 basis points due to the arbitration expense in the prior year.
Amortization of intangible assets increased to $8.7 million in the first quarter of 2015 from $8.2 million in 1Q '14 primarily due to amortization of intangible assets associated with acquisitions that have closed since the first quarter of last year.
To further discuss our segment results electric power revenues were $1.23 billion reflecting a decrease of $52.4 million quarter-over-quarter or approximately 4.1%.
Revenues during the quarter were negatively impacted by approximately $32 million as a result of the fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in the first quarter of 2015 as compared to the first quarter of 2014.
In addition due to normal fluctuations in project timing certain larger projects were ongoing in last year's first quarter which were at or near completion by the first quarter of this year.
Lastly emergency restoration revenues decreased approximately $17.7 million [ph] quarter-over-quarter to $19.5 million.
This decrease was offset by approximately $20 million in incremental revenues from companies acquired subsequent to the first quarter of last year.
Operating margin in the electric power segment decreased to 8.8% in the first quarter of 2015 as compared to 11.3% in last year's first quarter primarily due to the effects outlined in my previous comments.
Sequentially as of March 31 2015 12-month and total backlog for the electric power segment decreased by 4.6% and 3.9% largely as a result of an approximate $140 million decrease due to changes in currency rates.
Oil and Gas segment revenues increased quarter-over-quarter by $175.2 million or 39.3% to $621.1 million in 1Q '15 largely as a result of revenue contributions of approximately $130 million from companies acquired subsequent to the first quarter of last year but additionally from strong organic growth associated with increased capital spending by our customers.
Partially offsetting these increases is the negative impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in the first quarter '15 as compared to the first quarter '14 [indiscernible] estimated to have negatively impacted revenues by approximately $33 million.
Also partially offsetting the increase in revenues is the reduction in demand for some of our services due to the recent decline in oil prices.
Operating income for the Oil and Gas segment as a percentage of revenues increased to 3.9% in 1Q '15 from negative 4.7% in 1Q '14.
This increase was primarily due to the impact in the prior year for the arbitration expense mentioned previously which negatively impacted the segment by 870 basis points in the first quarter of 2014.
The 12-month and total backlog for the Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services segment increased sequentially by 2.1% and 6.3%.
Backlog for this segment is at the highest level since we have identified it as an operating segment.
I will comment later in my prepared remarks on the disposition of our fiber licensing operations.
But as far as the first quarter's performance our Fiber Optic Licensing and Other segment revenues were up $1.6 million or 4.1% to $40.1 million in 1Q '15 as compared to $38.5 million in 1Q '14 due to higher levels of ancillary telecommunication service revenues.
Operating margin decreased to 28.7% in 1Q '15 as compared to 31.4% in 1Q '14 primarily due to a change in [indiscernible] the higher proportion of revenues derived from ancillary telecommunication services as well as incremental lit fiber activities both of which typically carry lower margins versus dark fiber services.
Corporate and non-allocated costs increased $5 million in the first quarter of 2015 as compared to 1Q '14 primarily as a result of $3.8 million in higher compensation and incentive costs $1.7 million higher costs associated with ongoing technology and business development initiatives and $1.2 million in higher consulting and professional fees.
These increases were partially offset by $3.2 million in lower acquisition and integration costs.
EBITA for the first quarter of 2015 was $97.5 million or 5.2% of revenues compared to $95.1 million or 5.4% of revenues for the first quarter of 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA was $153 million or 8.1% of revenues for the first quarter of 2015 compared to $185.6 million or 10.5% of revenues for the first quarter of 2014.
The calculation of EBITA EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are all non-GAAP measures.
And the definitions of these and day sales outstanding or DSO can be found in the Investors &amp; Media section of our website at quantaservices.com.
For the first quarter of 2015 cash flow provided by operations was approximately $189 million.
And net capital expenditures were approximately $65 million resulting in approximately $124 million of free cash flow as compared to negative free cash flow of approximately $130 million for the first quarter of 2014.
The increase in free cash flow was primarily driven by the timing of the collection of various receivables including $65 million associated with the previously delayed payments on the Sunrise Powerlink Project as well as lower taxes payable due to the charge to provision for long-term contract receivables in 2014 and its impact on our 2015 estimated tax payment as well as reduced incentive compensation payments based upon the company's performance against incentive metrics in 2014 as compared to 2013.
DSOs are flat at 83 days at March 31 2015 compared to 83 days at December 31 2014 and 80 days at March 31 2014.
Investing cash flows during the first quarter of 2015 were impacted by aggregate cash consideration paid of approximately $34.7 million net of cash acquired related to 3 acquisitions closed during the quarter.
Financing cash flows during the first quarter of 2015 were impacted by the repurchase of 6.7 million shares of our common stock for approximately $182 million.
At March 31 2015 we had approximately $135.5 million in cash with approximately $103.8 million in U.S.
funds and $31.7 million relating to our foreign operations.
In addition at the end of the quarter we had about $328.5 million in letters of credit and bank guarantees outstanding to secure our casualty insurance program and other contractual commitments.
And we had $106.4 million of borrowings in Canada outstanding under our credit [ph] facility.
Including our cash on hand and availability under our credit facility we had nearly $1 billion in total liquidity as of March 31 2015.
Concerning our outlook for 2015 we expect revenues for the second quarter to range between $1.95 billion and $2.05 billion and diluted earnings per share to be $0.36 to $0.42 on a GAAP basis.
These estimates compare to revenues of $1.86 billion and GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.37 in the second quarter of 2014.
Our GAAP EPS forecast for the second quarter of 2015 includes an estimate of $10.6 million for noncash stock-based compensation expense and $8.9 million for amortization expense.
Excluding these expenses our non-GAAP adjusted diluted earnings per share for the second quarter of 2015 is expected to be $0.42 to $0.48 and compares to our non-GAAP adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.43 in the second quarter of 2014.
Specific weather dynamics that impacted certain projects in the first quarter have to an extent carried over into the beginning of the second quarter such that we currently do not expect to be able to make up for lost productivity and we have factored that into our estimates for the second quarter.
On an annual basis we expect revenues to range between $8.1 billion and $8.5 billion.
And we currently anticipate GAAP diluted earnings per share for the year to be between $1.70 to $1.90.
In addition we estimate $41.5 million for noncash stock-based compensation expense and $35.5 million for amortization expense for the full year of 2015 and anticipate non-GAAP diluted earnings per share to be between $1.94 to $2.14.
Our forecasted non-GAAP measures are estimated on a basis similar to the calculations of historical adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations presented in our release.
We lowered our annual guidance primarily due to the impact of the first quarter shortfall in EPS.
However the additional factor contributing to our reduced guidance is the overall increase in our annual effective tax rate.
Our current expectations for the year is for a smaller proportion of our earnings to be earned in Canada which has a lower tax rate as compared to earnings in the United States.
This change in the proportion of foreign earnings increased our estimated effective tax rate for the year by as much as 200 basis points which had the effect of lowering our annual EPS expectation by as much as $0.06.
We are currently projecting our GAAP tax rate to be between 36% and 36.5% for 2015.
As a result of some of the project delays Jim referred to at the midpoint of our guidance for the year we see electric power revenue showing flat to modest growth.
As a reminder this forecast takes into consideration the current foreign exchange rate environment as compared to 2014 which results in a reduction of 3% to 5% when comparing the annual period.
Also similar to our year-end commentary we are holding our estimated operating margin guidance for the year to 10% to 11% in the Electric Power segment which reflects our expectation to perform within the 10% to 12% range in the third and fourth quarters of this year.
For the Oil and Gas segment as Jim commented oil price uncertainty has created incremental softness in demand for certain of our services.
And as such the midpoint of our range now reflects operating margin slightly lower than 9% and our midpoint revenue guidance requires no incremental mainline pipe project starts for this year.
For additional guidance we expect net income attributable to noncontrolling interest to be approximately $1.3 million in the second quarter of 2015.
However these JV relationships wind down by the middle of the year and therefore we expect no noncontrolling interest deduction in the latter half of 2015.
We currently estimate our diluted share count to be about 215 million shares for the year.
Both the second quarter and annual 2015 guidance reflect the current foreign exchange rate environment.
Continued movement in -- for foreign currency rates in the future could make comparisons to prior periods difficult.
We expect CapEx for all of 2015 to be approximately $275 million to $305 million when factoring in 2015-to-date acquisitions which includes CapEx for our Fiber Licensing and Other segment of about $50 million to $60 million without regard to the planned disposition of these operations later this year.
This compares to CapEx for all of 2014 of $301 million.
I'll now turn my commentary to a discussion of our announcement to divest of our fiber optic licensing operations.
As discussed in today's release we entered into an agreement to divest of these operations subsequent to the end of the first quarter for approximately $1 billion in gross proceeds.
We currently estimate net proceeds from the transaction to be approximately $800 million.
We expect to record a gain upon closing of the transaction.
However as the timing of the close is uncertain my previous guidance comments include the contribution of the fiber operations as though we maintain their operations through the entire year.
As such for the 12-month period ending December 31 2015 Quanta's fiber licensing operations are estimated to generate approximately $105 million to $110 million in revenue and contribute $0.12 to $0.13 in diluted earnings per share.
The transaction was committed to in the second quarter and we will be evaluating whether to treat the operations as assets held for sale as part of our second quarter reporting.
In any event upon closing the results of operations would be expected to be treated as discontinued operation at which time we will provide supplemental information to restate previous periods for comparability.
We believe there is opportunity to create incremental shareholder value with the proceeds from this transaction by our repurchasing our stock acquiring energy infrastructure services companies and/or making strategic investments.
We will continue to evaluate all of the opportunities we could -- we believe could create shareholder value going forward.
However we expect to use the proceeds for a combination of these purposes.
As a reminder of our recent activity in these regards through the date of this call we have invested approximately $322 million in cash to acquire companies and approximately $275 million in cash to repurchase stock since January 1 2014.
We currently have $225 million available under our current stock repurchase program.
Overall our capital priorities remain the same with a focus on ensuring adequate resources for working capital and capital expenditure growth and an opportunistic approach towards acquisitions investments and repurchases of Quanta stock.
This concludes our formal presentation and we'll now open the line for Q&amp;A.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Jim first question for you.
Given the confidence you have on your -- the momentum in your core markets clearly your stock is undervalued.
So as you look at the opportunity with the fiber optic sale and really how you see investments would your stock not be the best investment? And when we look at that $800 million in net proceeds you'll be getting from there would it -- can you at least try to give us a bit of an idea of how much of a chunk of that could potentially go towards the acquisition at this point -- sorry towards repurchases at this point? Yes I'm going to let Derrick talk about that briefly.
I'll just say that the uses of capital we've got the significant amount of working capital to fund on pipeline projects.
There's M&amp;A activity and certainly there's an opportunity to buy back stock.
So I don't think there's going to be much change in use of capital at least the strategy for our uses of capital but I'll let Derrick add some additional commentary.
Yes Tahira I agree with Jim's comments.
I mean although we do see opportunities there you can see with our original repurchase program that we've used a good portion of that all the way through the first quarter of this year.
And we have $225 million remaining under that program to date.
So we obviously see that being one of the uses of capital and a good use of capital.
Having said that M&amp;A and investments we still believe are significant contributor and in fact we believe create greater long-term value.
And so we will still be looking at that.
We still consider ourselves to be an acquisitive company.
But I think it will be a combination of those things is what you'll see.
And we'll be opportunistic at how we balance those based upon the M&amp;A and investment-type pipeline looking back and forth between that versus capital repurchase.
The other thing I'll comment that although we announced the transaction today it's still subject to regulatory approval and there's a timing issue to when that may close.
And although we anticipate a very low risk to closing there is still a bit of risk to that.
And I think that she -- we will be in our minds a little premature to make a significant move in a permanent capital play until we see how that plays out.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough folks.
Second question is in regards to the electric transmission side.
Clearly there are some very large projects still out there as you mentioned.
As revenues slow down because these projects are being delayed can you still see backlog grow as some of these hit by the end of the year? Or does it seem like on the electric T&amp;D side we are now looking at maybe backlog investing flattish? I think that you can have quarter-over-quarter fluctuations in backlog Tahira.
But it should remain strong and even grow if we get some pent-up backlog because we can't get through the construction delay.
Because of construction delays typically projects aren't awarded until they get the permitting cleared and the projects moved to construction.
So delays in backlog in revenues kind of work hand in hand with one another.
But I do think that certainly the multi-year outlook is really -- is strong.
What's happening is we're getting a lot of -- our work is starting to move toward the Northeast U.S.
and into Eastern Canada.
That's where you typically have harder -- our customers have more difficult times permitting lines primarily because of the customer population and density but we do think that we'll break through here as we move into '16.
And there are other opportunities in the Southeast U.S.
and the Western U.S.
particularly to deal with the intermittency of renewables where permitting has historically been easier in the western states.
So we see a lot of opportunity out there for growth.
How backlog plays out: It should remain strong and grow over a multi-year period.
And we'll take our next question from Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Now that we're a little bit further into the oil downturn gentlemen what do you -- you guys have $1 billion shale business on the pipe side.
And then I assume you're doing some electrification in the shales of -- in your power segment.
I mean what are you seeing in the shales right now? I think on the last call I said that the low price of oil would affect us about 5% of our total business.
It's probably a little bit more than that right now.
Fortunately we weren't really concentrated in the Eagle Ford and the Bakken where those oil-rich sands and those areas have been impacted from the wellhead to the midstream gathering programs.
Those are down.
The Marcellus we're still active there.
We have seen a little bit of slowdown but that's primarily because of the inability to get permitting for the main pipelines to take product out of there not the low price of oil.
But overall the gathering work we anticipate will still run about the same revenue -- at the same revenue level as we -- have been experiencing over the last several years.
And if it did fall off we certainly believe that any fall off in the oil and gas sector whether it's a downturn in gathering or services impacted by the low price of oil will be offset by mainline additions that we expect here not only this year but over the next several years.
Research Division</strong> That's my follow-up question on the mainline additions.
Why would Columbia be -- award this job now for something that starts in 2017? Well because customers are concerned about capacity.
And to our comments over the last several quarters there are some customers that are trying to plan their -- plan out their construction strategy earlier in the game.
So you are going to see some awards I believe over the next several quarters that will have some time in between the contract award and when the project's start date is.
And a lot of that is being driven by these projects are very large in size and scope.
They need to be planned early.
And they need to have a certainty that the construction resources will be available to do the work.
And we'll take our next question from Noelle Dilts with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> For my first question I just wanted to dig into the free cash flow profile of the business a little bit.
First just on the kind of core business given that you're expecting somewhat lower growth in transmission this year how are you thinking about working capital investment? Do you think it's still going to be an investment this year? Or that it could be a source of cash? And then also am I thinking about this correctly with the fiber optic licensing sale that it should actually be free cash flow accretive given that you're losing some net income but obviously you've been investing heavily in CapEx for that business? So overall you could actually see a bit of the benefit.
Yes as it relates to the kind of global free cash flow I've made comments last year that I thought 2015 might have the opportunity to have overall stronger free cash flow.
We're seeing that here in the first quarter to the extent that there is a little bit of a flatness in revenues that generally offers opportunity for a stronger bit of free cash flow.
But right now I'm still looking at my DSOs to still run probably in the 80-day range throughout the year so that will create that kind of a regular pace.
And to the extent that mainline opportunities come about mainline is actually where I see a bigger need for working capital and some of the demand.
So I think that will offset some of that creation of cash that might happen on the electric power side.
Most specifically we think that we'll see -- continue to see those jobs ramp up throughout the rest of the year which will continue to draw on working capital.
On the fiber side yes what I would say is we have historically invested CapEx about equal to the cash flow that that segment created.
So net-net we were about a 0 dollar free cash flow for fiber.
So once you take that out at least as ratio perspective it seems to improve the ratio.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second just given that you have these funds coming in can you just expand a little bit on your appetite for acquisitions? You've been making a lot of smaller bolt-on acquisitions would that -- is that what you continue to plan to do? Or would you look to maybe make some larger acquisitions? And then you talked about wanting to increase your presence in the energy space.
Would this be kind of continuing to look in electric and pipeline? Or do you think you might look to maybe just a tangential energy market? Noelle this is Jim.
I think we're going to continue to be opportunistic on acquisitions.
I don't think -- our strategy has not changed.
I do believe that we will see the same number of acquisitions that we've as far as the number that we've transacted on will be comparable to the last several years.
The dollar value will probably be a little bit lower.
So the total consideration we pay for acquisitions in '15 will probably be less than what we did in '13 and '14.
I don't see any big acquisition out there.
And I think that's probably the concern of investors that we're going to take this money go make a big play in M&amp;A and we don't see that right now.
I think we're going to continue to be very selective and continue to follow the same strategy that we've embarked on the last several years.
One bit additional color to that is that of those acquisitions you might see the cash-stock mix switch a little bit.
As you've seen throughout the first quarter and second quarter actually most transactions if not all have effectively been all cash transactions.
The size of those transactions dictate a little bit of that such that you might see us using a little bit more cash because of those smaller-sized deals.
And we'll take our next question from Jamie Cook with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
One in your prepared remarks Jim I think you mentioned some delays on certain transmission projects related to your usual regulatory stuff.
I was just hoping you could provide some color in terms of the total size of the projects how many they are? Is there anything similar about those projects which are causing sort of the regulatory issues? Or is it just more of the same? And sort of could you quantify what your impact is in terms of earnings for '15? And does that roll into '16? And then my second question just again on the -- the decision to sell.
You obviously got a really good multiple: The 15x.
That's interesting.
But is there -- should I read anything Jim or Derrick into the timing? I mean you obviously got a very good multiple.
And we can also argue that the multiples for the businesses that you're in are probably fairly depressed given the market short-term view on sort of energy? So are you trying to be I guess opportunistic here just because these multiples are depressed for the potential acquisitions you're looking at? Yes first on your question on transmission projects I think it's pervasive throughout both larger projects and also projects we're doing under MSAs to where it's just more difficult to cite any infrastructure.
The larger projects I do want to reiterate they're not canceled.
They just get pushed out.
It's very difficult to sight and permit some of these larger lines and we do see delays of up to years here.
We were in some of the final stages of permitting and sighting.
We thought projects would move forward by the end of this year but they slipped into '16.
And again the smaller MSA-type transmission projects we also see some issues there especially in areas that have a population concentration.
It's just difficult to even site projects that are just a mile or 2 long if this transmission and not reconductoring of any existing right-of-ways.
As far as Sunesys there was no rhyme or reason to why there was no -- we didn't sell Sunesys because the M&amp;A multiples were down in the Oil and Gas sector.
This is something that we've been contemplating primarily for several different reasons but the fiber market has continued to accelerate.
The competitive environment has continued to change.
There's been a lot of mergers acquisitions private equities involved very -- a lot of aggressiveness by competition to penetrate Sunesys' footprint.
We don't have the capital to compete in that environment today.
I mean that business has changed significantly over the last 5 years in a good way.
We've done our best to create and we have created value for our investors but we think that at the rate that the market is accelerating we felt that we could lose our competitive advantage because we didn't have the capital to compete.
I mean you're seeing hundreds of millions of dollars deployed by customers -- or by competitors into this space.
And it does -- that business takes a lot of cash to compete and that's not who we are.
We're an energy infrastructure company and we had to pick our priority.
And our priority is certainly to build out opportunities in the energy infrastructure space and that's where our capital is going to go.
So it's just the best decision for the employees of Sunesys and it's the best decision for our shareholders and it did happen at a very opportune time I think in the industry.
In our industry both from on the energy side and on the fiber side for Crown Castle.
And we'll take our next question from Dan Mannes with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> So another follow-up on the electric side Jim.
So just so I understand this sounds like an evolution from maybe the fourth quarter as to incremental delays.
When you think about your guidance for this year your second half guidance doesn't look like it was materially changed.
So is this essentially a bet that you're going to get sufficient pipeline to backfill? Or is that pipeline on the mainline side that you already have that's going to backfill for these delays? No we've got -- at the midpoint of our guidance we have in hand the mainline work this year.
So if there aren't any delays I mean these are projects that are permitted or ready to go that some of them are even on construction now.
We would on the higher end of our guidance would require some new awards which is a possibility in the fourth quarter of this year because we do see things on the mainline side beginning to accelerate.
But we would require some uncommitted mainline to get to the top end of our guidance.
I think on the electric side I mean transmission we're not -- we have not peaked but we've -- we have taken a pause.
And that's going to happen.
I mean we've had significant growth in transmission over the last several years.
Some of these delays -- we are pausing.
I mean we're still going to generate revenues at a high level consistent with where we've been here over the last several quarters but we're not going to see a fall off.
But I think our growth -- any falloff can be -- will be replaced or augmented by mainline pipe on a consolidated basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then real quick as it relates to the fiber business obviously you have pretty attractive takeout multiple.
But just wondering as you thought through this process were there other opportunities to do this i.e.
was there consideration of spin-off? Was this an auction? Or was this just a bilateral negotiation with you and Crown Castle? If you could just give a little bit more color on the decision-making? Well we've had a great working relationship with Crown Castle over the last several years.
They've licensed our fiber for their small-cell deployment.
And it just evolved into a discussion from working together as strategic partners to try to deploy their small-cell.
And it moved into a situation where we did consider other options at the time very hard.
We did bring in JPMorgan from the standpoint of helping us work through those decisions.
They've done more fiber deals than anybody in this space.
We felt that the offer that we received from Crown Castle was very attractive compared to historical multiples that have been paid in this business.
And so we felt that it was in the best interest to move forward with them to see if we can strike a deal.
One of the main reasons we did that is I didn't need disruption of the Sunesys' workforce.
And very public processes can create a negative impact on operations.
So it just worked out really well.
I think it was the cleanest way to do a deal.
We got outside advisers.
We did consider options but the multiple that they were offering us in the process was I think the most efficient way and the quickest way to get to an SBA.
And we'll take our next question from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you can just give us a sense for the oil and gas booking activity that's going on in Canada both on the smaller side and at Banister.
What kind of work is being booked there right now? And how are you managing the resources there given the uncertainty of some of the bigger projects? I think Canada is a very robust environment.
It's -- Banister is the #1 player in that market in Canada in mainline.
We have seen some delays here in '15 in some of Banister's.
The opportunities that we expected in '15 did get pushed but I would say that our robustness and the outlook is for Banister is more than what we anticipated when we bought them.
And certainly I think that mainline opportunities are going to play out for them in a big way as we move into '16 and beyond because they are the #1 player in Canada and they have significant customer relationships with pipeline companies in Canada.
So the Banister acquisition was very strategic for us.
And while '15 will be a little bit soft for them we're going to see some nice opportunities in the outer years with Banister leading those mainline pipe efforts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the electric side I think you mentioned the power plant that was not performing to expectations.
Can you just give a little more color there? Remind us of how big that project is? What's going wrong? How far along it is and how confident are you that there won't be any kind of further negative issues there? Yes the main problem there was material delays.
I mean we were on schedule.
We're not really having performance issues.
It's about a $200 million job.
I believe we're 50% complete on it.
We had some material delays on critical components that -- from manufacturing that created some issues.
So we had to take some hits on that projects in the first quarter but we believe things are heading in the right direction now there.
But it was worthy of pointing out because it did have an impact on the quarter.
And we'll take our next question from Alex Rygiel with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> To follow up on the last question has the challenge with the power plant project changed your view on power generation at all? We've always said that we were going to be very selective in power generation.
This is not an area that we see as a growth platforms per se but an area that we're going to be opportunistic on the smaller combined cycle plants.
It's unfortunate that we have this issue here but we do see opportunities to capitalize in some specialized areas on power plants going forward but this isn't a third leg of a stool or growth platform for us.
It's more like renewables that we have the expertise in-house to execute at a certain level on these projects.
And we'll continue to be opportunistic when we can.
Unfortunately we've just had some issues on this 1 job but I think there's opportunities going forward to take advantage of in this market at times.
Research Division</strong> Derrick and I may have missed this.
What was the foreign currency impact on backlog for both 12 months and total backlog? Yes from a foreign currency perspective quarter-over-quarter I'd call it roughly 3%.
It's about $140 million in electric power I think I called out for backlog and that's 12 -- that's sequential backlog.
And we'll take our next question from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Jim just following up on comments about some of the deferrals and delays on the power side and also on the pipeline side that you're seeing owners try and line up projects earlier.
What are you seeing in the pricing market? I mean that would suggest that there is excess capacity in the electrical side and capacity's tight on the pipeline side.
Yes I mean some customers are traditionally bidding out projects as they've done in the past.
Many have moved to a negotiated type stance to whether they're negotiating solely with 1 contractor or 2 contractors on bigger programs.
We're seeing a trend in that direction.
I would say on the bidding you're always going to have competition and you're going to always have to people that are being irrational and we're going to use our same bidding discipline that we've employed over the last several years.
So our margins that we're bidding are no different than the margins that we've bid on in the past.
But we are on a positive note seeing many customers again with these big capital programs that are moving toward a negotiating -- negotiated stance while -- exclusively with contractors.
But margins in backlog right now are consistent with what we've historically generated over the last year or so.
Research Division</strong> And how far away are we from an improvement -- I mean margins in the pipeline business that are double digits on an annual basis that several years away still? Yes.
I mean I think margins in that segment are directly correlated to executing on mainline pipe projects and having a healthy amount of mainline revenue.
And I think that's imminent.
I mean I think that as we get into '16 we should be in that 9% to 12% range if the mainline pipe programs play out as we expect.
So I know people have been waiting for this for quite some time.
We've been speaking about it for a couple of years.
It's probably slipped about 9 months to a year from when I thought it was going to happen.
Instead of being a '15 dynamic though I really think '16 certainly.
We're starting to really get some visibility now that gives us some confidence that mainline pipe in '16 is going to happen.
And we'll take our next question from Andy Wittmann with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Maybe Derrick for you just some these numbers you gave but just on the acquisitions that were completed in the quarter.
Can you give us the backlog the annualized revenue and maybe the aggregate capital deployed? The backlog and the annualized revenue by segment? Just to have -- give us a sense about how those things might be filtering in over the next year.
Yes I assume you're talking about the ones that were closed here in the second quarter.
There's a couple of small deals.
I'd say run rate revenue is probably in the $25 million to $35 million range in electric power.
And backlog call it probably about $35 million $40 million.
Research Division</strong> Nothing on the pipeline side? No not for the deals closed in the second quarter they were both electric power.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And on the big 2017 gas pipeline that didn't go in backlog yet did it? Or will it be in the second quarter of '15 backlog? No it's not in backlog as of 3/31.
And we'll take our next question from William Bremer with Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> Many of my questions have been asked and answered.
Have there been many change orders in either of the segments at this time? Yes I mean change orders are a regular part of our business both approved and unapproved change-orders.
That's an ongoing part of our business.
I'd say there's no one quarter per se that stands out more than another in that regard.
I did comment as it relates to the specific activity we called out for -- here in the first quarter that we have not booked anything unique to that activity.
So to the extent that are able to go through and do anything from a quantification perspective that could lead to some potential upside in future quarters.
But as it stands for those projects we have not recorded any change orders.
Research Division</strong> Okay Derrick.
And another question focused on the oil and gas arena primarily on the margins there this first quarter.
Any one particular project that had an impact on margins? Or was it really just many of them in the weather areas that you voiced earlier? No I mean there wasn't any particular project performance that stands out really to cause an individual fluctuation per se on oil and gas.
The margins for the first quarter once you take out the arbitration cost for last year are very comparable quarter-over-quarter and reflects in our mind a fairly normal seasonality.
We would expect that there would be a little bit of pressure in the oil and gas margins in the fourth -- first quarter and then continue to grow throughout the year much like we saw in last year.
So as we go out further I think you'll see us back into that 9% to 12% range overall.
But I would still always anticipate that the first quarter have some degree of challenge just because of the normal seasonality.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Shlisky with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So in the quarter your corporate costs were up 11% but your revenues were only up 7%.
Are there any sort of onetime items in the quarter that are kind of worth pointing out? And what's the appropriate corporate cost rate going forward? There was -- there weren't anything particular to call out.
I mean we've got just kind of normal conversation adjustments primarily associated with cost of living as well as that you have the full year effect or starting to get full effect new employees that were hired last year.
A lot of that having to deal with a lot of the greenfield and strategic initiatives that we have going on and bringing on personnel to support those initiatives.
So that's why you'll see a little bit of G&amp;A front running some portion of revenue in that.
As far as guidance overall I think I'd say that corporate unallocated will continue to run somewhere in the 2.5% to 2.9% range; fairly consistent with what you saw in 2014.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then secondly on Australia can you maybe update us on kind of what's been going on there? And do you have any plans to accelerate or decelerate your investment there given all the cash coming in and the FX rates? We still look at Australia as a great opportunity for us to expand the Quanta footprint.
They had a great year last year.
Probably won't see growth there because of the economy and the price of oil but don't see any big fall-off there either.
Coal seam gas projects are moving forward but many of our customers in coal seam gas also have some oil interests.
So they've been hit there on their other investments and their cash flows are down.
So their pace of investment in the coal seam gas development has slowed somewhat.
But with that said there's opportunities to take advantage of in the electric space as well and we continue to look at opportunities to grow there.
There's just so many market drivers there that with the deregulation that's occurring there the aging infrastructure renewable interconnections there's a lot of opportunity to expand our electric and to maintain and grow our pipeline segment as well as the opportunity exists.
So I would say that we're going to just be calculated and our investments in Australia and slowly and opportunistically grow that platform.
But there won't be any big play in Australia because of the Sunesys transaction.
And we'll take our next question from Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Maybe talk about the expectations for the Electric Power segment margin in the long term? Do you think given the changes in the backlog and product delays that your expectations for the longer term outlook on the margins front have changed? No.
I mean we would still say that overall we see electric power margins being able to be within the 10% to 12% range long term.
This year we still see the opportunity for the latter half of the year for our margins to be in that 10% to 12% range once we get past some degree of the seasonality that we're having here in the first and second quarter.
And so with that I mean we are -- as Jim commented earlier the margins on our backlog are very comparable to what we've seen over the last several years as far as -- from an execution and expectation standpoint.
So I think that we'll see clearly opportunity for 10% to 12% margins in the Electric Power on a go-forward basis.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just on the mainline work I mean I must have missed this question if you were already asked.
But are you seeing any impact at all on the pricing environment and the margins that you expect from that segment especially? And how should we think about again the back half of the year given the mix of your expectations or given the mix of mainline work? Do you see that margins in the back half of -- will be much better than the first few quarters? Yes I would say it's very similar to electric power.
Our normal seasonality is that as you look through the years the second third and fourth quarters have a tendency to have both expansion in revenue and somewhat an expansion in margin throughout.
So to that end I think that we'll see higher margin opportunities in the Oil and Gas segment for the third and fourth quarter.
And your first part of that which is speaking to mainline I mean we continue to see that also that margins are very capable of getting us back into the 9% to 12% range and executing at that level.
And over the long term we very much see that those mainline contributions will be pushing us -- pushing the segment to that type of level of performance.
Yes and I want to reiterate our bidding discipline has not changed on mainline as well.
And we continue to see additional opportunities come in employing that discipline.
So as Derrick stated once we get into next year and we have a significant level of mainline pipe we should be able to get within the range that we expect in that 9% to 12% range.
And this concludes the question-and-answer session and I would like to turn the conference back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Well I'd like to thank all of you for participating on our first quarter 2015 conference call.
We do appreciate your questions and your ongoing interest in Quanta Services.
Thank you and this concludes our call.
And this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.